Annual report on the operation of the European Court of Auditors 2007
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2008 ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 © European Communities, 2008 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
3 4 not 5 6 volume 7 8 in 1317 18.25 26.27 28.29 30.35 36.37 38.43 44.45 The president's undertaking, LEGITBILD, STRATEGIC VALUE AND OBJECTIVES AND WORK OF THE COURT OF STRUCTURAL AND ORGANISATION ON AUDIT REPORTS AND COMMENTS FROM THE COURT OF PROCEDURE AND USE OF THE POSITION OF THE COURT OF WORK IN 2007 AND WITH REGARD TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
PRELIMINATION OF THE PRESIDENT 4 One of the main objectives of the Court and its transparency and accountability tasks is to bring the European Court of Auditors closer to EU citizens.
I am pleased to welcome you as a reader of the first annual report on the activities of the European Court of Auditors.
The aim of the report is to provide an overview of the Court's activities in 2007, the year in which it celebrates its 30-year existence as an external auditor of the European Union, which, in accordance with its mandate, contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of Union citizens.
The Court shall make a major contribution to its audits and reports which enable the audit authority to improve financial management and assist the discharge authority (the European Parliament and the Council) in monitoring the implementation of the EU budget.
This report reviews the audit reports published in 2007 and contains the main conclusions on the implementation of the EU budget for 2006 and on the sound financial management of the EU.
The Court not only informs about financial management over recent years but also actively participates in the creation of an EU financial control framework.
2007 was very important for EU financial management.
The section on Member States' responsibilities and the Court's contribution to the public consultation on budgetary reform launched by the European Commission sets out the Court's position.
None of the Court's results in 2007 would have been possible without the involvement, know-how and competences of 850 employees.
Staff is the main capital of a future-oriented body that strives for continuous improvement.
This first annual activity report contains detailed information on the reform process carried out by the Court, which started with self-assessment in 2006.
Progress was made in 2007 in the implementation of the Action Plan and the so-called peer review procedure was launched at the end of the year under the direction of a group of auditors belonging to the national accounting tribunals of Canada, Austria, Norway and Portugal.
The first outcome of this reform process was the following declaration on the mandate, guidelines, values and strategic objectives of the Court, which will be based on future actions that the Court will present in good time.
I wish you a great deal of joy in reading the first annual activity report and I hope it will benefit you.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
6 ORDER, REMUNERATION, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the control of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU controller, it contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and, at the same time, it is an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
7 Value Independence, integrity and impartiality Professionalism Add value Excellence and efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality for institutions, its members and employees.
The provision of appropriate test results to addressees, with any form of interference being rejected by means of instructions or external pressures.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
preparing appropriate and timely high-quality reports based on reliable findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of the addressees and containing relevant and guiding comments.
contribute to the effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and contribute to increasing responsibility for the management of EU funds.
Supporting the spirit of cooperation through effective communication.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES In order to achieve its task, the European Court of Auditors took note of the following strategic objectives: Professionality Productivity A group of addressees Development and growth Audit methods, adequate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, the development of common audit standards and comparable audit criteria for EU funds, cooperation with EU-ORKB, an effective Community control framework for the selection of relevant audit topics, proximity of time, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of performance control, increased impact of reports on strengthening relations with audit entities with a view to better understanding the audit process and greater acceptance of audit results; strengthening contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as budgetary authority and discharge authority; effective communication with EU citizens on the use of peer review experience to strengthen and develop organisations, methods, procedures and results and achieve the greatest possible effectiveness; implementation of effective and dynamic human resources policy; high quality vocational training; modernisation of infrastructure;
8 THE ROLE AND WORK OF THE COURT What role does the Court have?
The budget of the European Union is around EUR 120 billion, representing around 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of the 27 Member States.
This is a small percentage compared to national budgets.
However, for some Member States EU funds play an important role in financing public actions, which is approximately the GNI of some countries such as Romania.
The composition of the budget has changed over time and agricultural and cohesion policy are the main areas of expenditure (see Box 1).
The budget shall be adopted annually by the Council on the basis of a seven-year financial framework, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and by the European Parliament elected directly on a proposal from the European Commission.
The Commission shall implement the budget on its own responsibility but shall share with the Member States a significant part of its administrative tasks, in particular as regards agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure.
Depending on the expenditure system, national authorities may be responsible for defining expenditure strategies, selecting beneficiaries and projects and implementing payments.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments on the basis of applications from the beneficiaries themselves, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union.
9 BOX 1 How does the EU issue its passport?
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than national budgets, partly due to differences in competences.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually represent the majority of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which usually takes the form of payments to farmers across the Union, has been the main part of budget expenditure, although it is currently showing a downward trend.
In 2008, slightly less than half of the budget allocated to the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly in agriculture and rural development.
Since the 1980s, much of the expenditure has been spent on cohesion, i.e. regional and social development, as well as co-financing a wide range of projects from road construction in Slovakia to training courses for unemployed people in Denmark.
In 2008, expenditure on sustainable growth, part of which is cohesion, was estimated at 38% of the budget.
This heading also covers a significant part of the EU's research budget.
Around 6% of the budget is allocated to the management of the Community institutions.
EU expenditure Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1% European Union as a global partner 6% Managing 6% Cohesion inviolable growth 38% Agriculture in aquaculture and management of natural resources 49%
Democratic society needs complete and reliable public information as a basis for discussion and decision-making, both to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
The European Court of Auditors shall act as an external EU auditor who shall ensure that EU funds have been properly booked and spent in accordance with law, taking due account of the optimal use of funds, regardless of where they are used.
The Court's audit work is used by the Commission, Parliament and Council and Member States to improve EU financial management.
In addition to the Court's activities, many national audit bodies examine EU funds, provided that they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
Review of the internal and external audit of the EU budget at level 10 Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing bodies European Court of Auditors National Audit Authority at national level External audit
• • Does the financial statements provide, in all material respects, a true and reliable picture of the financial situation, results and cash flows for the year in accordance with the current accounting framework?
According to the Treaty, the Court is required to issue such a statement or opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual statement of assurance is widely known under the French acronym DAS.
More information on the Court's audit methods can be found on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
The Court carries out an audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with the International Audit Principles (ISA), which apply both to the public and private sectors.
The Court, in cooperation with national audit bodies, actively participates in the development of international audit standards promoted by standardisation bodies (Intosai, IFAC) 2.
In order to ensure compliance of payments with the rules and legal framework, the Court is based on the results of an analysis of both supervisory and control systems aimed at preventing and detecting and correcting errors in respect of legality and regularity as well as on a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
If the systems are reviewed and considered reliable, the number of operations which the Court will have to examine in order to draw reasonable conclusions on their legality and regularity will be reduced.
When selecting topics for performance control, the Court seeks to identify areas of control where the greatest impact can be expected in the form of exposed potential for improvement in terms of savings, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending.
12 2 International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (IFAC) International Federation of Accountants.
13 BOX 2 does not have the resources necessary for a detailed examination of all EU budget operations.
The Court monitors these operations up to the final recipient of aid, for example a farmer in southern Germany.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks, e.g. with regard to the measurement of the size of agricultural land, in order to determine whether the relevant information contained in the proposal complies with the reality.
The population of all agri-food payments, which is a statistical sample, may form the basis for an overall assessment for the population concerned, i.e. a specific area of income or expenditure, together with information resulting from the evaluation of the system.
This chart shows how the Court is proceeding to determine transactions for the purposes of detailed scrutiny.
In practice, the Court's random checks are more complex, for example on the basis of a two-step sampling procedure, in order to improve the effectiveness of the audit work.
EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR EUR
The Court of Auditors shall act as a collegial body consisting of 27 members, each of which shall consist of one member per Member State.
According to the organisational chart (see page 17), there are four thematic control groups covering different budgetary areas (protection and management of natural resources, structural policy, transport, research and energy, external policies, own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or coordination, communication, evaluation, quality assurance and development) shall be responsible for horizontal issues such as coordination in the field of assurance, quality assurance, the development of the audit methodology of the Court and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports.
In addition, a management committee composed of members of all audit groups shall be responsible for preparing all administrative matters requiring a formal decision of the Court.
MEMBERS of the Court shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, for a six-year term, as proposed by each Member State.
In addition to the functions within the college, which is responsible for final decisions on audits and opinions as well as on further strategic and administrative issues, each member shall be responsible for its specific tasks mainly in the field of audit.
The member shall then adopt the report in the audit group or at the Court and after its adoption in the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties.
On 1 January 2007, together with the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, the Court welcomed two new members: Nadešda Sandolova and Ovidiu Ipir.
A year later, on 1 January 2008, the Court adopted three new members: Michel Cretin (France), Henri Grethena (Luxembourg) and Harald Noack (Germany), because the term of office of the predecessors expired.
In addition, the Council extended the term of office of four members (Greece, the Netherlands, Austria and the United Kingdom) for another six years.
STR Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jack UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (EE) Lars HEIKKKsten (SE) Harald Noack (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri Grethen (LU) Maart B. Engwirda (NL) Július Molnár (SK) Irena PETRUŠKKKEVičIEN (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton AntonČ (SI) Igors LudborŽS (LV) Juan HÄKA (S) kol (SÖ) POL (S) POL (S) VOL (SI) Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRAI (PTI (PTA CALDEIRA (PTI (PT) Mor (PT) Morten (PTAR) Morten (PT)
The President-in-Office of the European Court of Auditors shall be the President elected from among the members for a period of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
The President's role is a priority inter pares.
The President shall represent the Court in all its external relations, in particular in relations with the discharge authority, with the other institutions of the European Union and with the highest audit bodies of the Member States and beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, a member of the Portuguese Court, was elected President of the Court.
The Secretary-General of the Secretary-General shall be the highest-ranking member of the institution and shall be appointed by the Court for a period of six years and shall be renewable.
The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the management of the Court's staff and staff, including vocational training and the Translation Directorate, with the exception of Gaelic language, from one unit to the official language (22).
The Secretary-General shall also be subject to the General Secretariat.
The mandate of the current Secretary-General of the Court of Justice, Michel Hervé, was extended on 1 July 2007.
THE COURT'S STAFF The human resources of the European Court of Auditors are about 850 employees (836 on 31 December 2007) and include auditors (484), translators (162) and administrative staff.
The Court's auditors shall have broad training profiles and appropriate professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular accounting, financial management, internal and external audit and legal and economic sciences.
Like other EU institutions, the Court employs citizens from all Member States.
18 SUMMARY OF THE AUDIT REPORTS AND 3 OPINIONS OF THE COURT The results of the Court's audits on accounting and conformity control shall in most cases be taken into account in the annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF) and in the specific annual reports on Union agencies and bodies.
Performance control results shall be published during the year in the form of special reports.
The Court shall also publish opinions on draft legislation affecting financial management.
ANNUAL REPORT 2006 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET As the Court has repeatedly stated in its annual reports on the implementation of the EU general budget, the relevant and appropriate internal control systems established by the Commission and the Member States are crucial to ensuring sound financial management of the EU.
In recent years, the Court has recognised the Commission's efforts to promote and apply improved internal control and management procedures both in terms of the reliability of the annual accounts of the EU and the legality and regularity of the operations set out therein.
The 2006 Annual Report continued this tradition by identifying areas where there is a significant need for improvement and identifying the main areas of expenditure where the situation is still unsatisfactory.
The Court found that the final annual accounts of the European Communities, showing the implementation of the EU budget for 2006, provide, in all material respects, a true and fair view of the financial situation and the performance of the Communities, except for the presentation of excessive amounts in commitments to settle and advance payments on the balance sheet.
It is therefore considered necessary that further improvements are needed to ensure that the newly introduced accrual accounting is fully satisfactory and can fully exploit its potential as a reliable management and control tool.
3 The purpose of this section is to introduce the Court's reports and opinions rather than a summary of them.
More detailed information can be found in the full text of the Court's documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
With regard to the expenditure areas covered by the final accounts of the European Communities, in which the majority of payments come from agriculture (mainly agricultural expenditure not covered by the integrated management and control system (IACS), structural measures, internal policies and broad external policy areas, the Court gives a negative opinion on legality and regularity and concludes that these expenditure areas are still largely affected by errors.
For payments in these areas, supervisory and control systems have only partially reduced the risk of errors in the legality and regularity of transactions.
The Court stresses that complex or unclear eligibility criteria or complex legislation have had a significant impact on the legality and regularity of transactions.
However, the Court noted a significant decrease in the estimated overall level of errors in agricultural transactions and concluded that the HACCP is an effective system for reducing the risk of irregular expenditure if properly applied.
Moreover, the Court found that the underlying transactions did not show significant errors, including payments related to administrative expenditure, a significant part of the pre-accession strategy and part of the external policy (see Box 3). 19
20 BOX 3 OF THE EXPENDITURE AREA The table summarises the overall assessment of supervisory and control systems, as described in the relevant chapters of the 2006 Annual Report, and provides an overview of the results of the audits carried out by the Court in respect of representative samples of transactions.
These systems shall be considered to be partially satisfactory where certain control systems are considered to be functioning properly and others not.
Overall, they may not be able to limit errors in underlying transactions to an acceptable level.
The report highlights some shortcomings in the functioning of supervisory and control systems.
The table highlights only the main statements, but details cannot be fully presented.
It is recommended that readers take note of the full analysis in the main part of the 2006 annual report.
Detailed evaluations in the annual report for the financial year 2006 Common agricultural policy Functioning of the supervisory and control systems Own resources of the HSCs of the CAP TotalICS no HSCs action within the framework of the structural policy Internal services and delegations External policy Pre-accession strategy Phare/ISPA Implementing bodies Sapard Administrative expenditure Functioning of supervisory and control systems partially unsatisfactory error margins below 2% (below materiality threshold) between 2% and 5% above 5%
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (EFF) In 2007, the Court also published an annual report on the European Development Fund (EFF).
While the Court could issue an unlimited opinion on the reliability of the EDF accounts, the opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying payments authorised by delegations in beneficiary countries was limited due to the material error rate in these transactions.
OTHER ANNUAL REPORT In addition, a further 28 special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies were published in 2007 and an annual report on the assessment of the effectiveness of the management of the European Central Bank 21.
The Court published a total of nine special reports in 2007.
The reports dealt with research on financial management issues in many different fields, ranging from VAT cooperation (No 8/2007) to capacity building in distant countries such as Angola and Vietnam (No 6/2007).
The Court's audits have revealed various types of problems with different consequences.
The weaknesses identified by the Court in relation to the expenditure of the EU institutions on buildings (No 2/2007) indicate that not all EU funds have been used in this area in a meaningful manner.
The shortcomings identified in the report on monitoring systems, inspections and sanctions concerning the rules for the conservation of Community fish stocks (No 7/2007) may have serious consequences not only for water resources but also for the future of the fisheries sector.
Notwithstanding the different uses of resources in the various areas of the EU budget, the Court's reports point to a number of common topics that can be considered as follows: 22 • • • Although the use of these resources should be both rapid and effective, tensions may arise in the pursuit of these two objectives.
This topic is the subject of a report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and a report from the Commission on the management of the CARDS programme in the Western Balkan countries (No 5/2007).
Although planning does not guarantee effectiveness, it is important.
Issues related to strategic and long-term planning were addressed in the reports on the expenditure of the EU institutions for buildings (No 2/2007) and the evaluation of the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development (RTD) (No 9/2007) and in the two external assistance reports, one concerning CARDS (No 5/2007) and the other on the effectiveness of technical assistance for capacity building (No 6/2007).
The Commission's assessments are a key element of its performance management system for assessing performance and, where necessary, for detecting improvement needs.
Where evaluations are carried out at an early stage of the programming cycle, this means that progress is insufficient and insufficient data are available for evaluation purposes.
On the other hand, it is possible to limit the possibility of timely changes in the current period and improvements before the next start if evaluations are carried out at a later date.
The issue of proper timing of evaluations was addressed both in the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and in the report on the evaluation of RTD (No 9/2007).
23 • • Evaluation, like audits, is more difficult to carry out when the objectives of the spending programmes are unclear, which was another issue raised in the last two reports.
The management and control of EU expenditure shall be subject to complex rules which must be clearly and unambiguously formulated in order to ensure that the funds are used for the intended purposes.
The existence of clear definitions and rules is crucial for the collection or use of resources as planned.
This was the subject of reports on the European Refugee Fund (No 3/2007) and on the control of goods and substitutions carried out by Member States with regard to exports of agricultural products (No 4/2007).
The lack of common definitions is one of the factors that may affect the completeness, comparability and reliability of data from different Member States.
This may have consequences if the data are the basis for a decision, for example on the allocation of funds.
24 Special Report No 1/2007 Special Report No 2/2007 Special Report No 4/2007 Special Report No 5/2007 Special Report No 6/2007 Special Report No 7/2007 Special Report No 9/2007 Special Report No 9/2007 Implementation of the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds for the period 2000-2006 Expenditure of the institutions on buildings Management of the European Refugee Fund (2000-2004) Control of goods and substitutions in exports of products to be recovered The management of CARDS by the Commission The effectiveness of technical assistance in capacity building monitoring, inspection and sanctioning systems as regards the rules for the protection of Community fisheries resources Administrative cooperation of the institutions in the field of value added tax Evaluation of the Union framework programmes for research and technological development How could the Commission improve its approach?
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2007 The Court also contributes to improving the EU's financial management by issuing opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the procedure for adopting financial rules 4 or may be issued at the request of one of the other institutions of the Community 5. In addition, the Court may issue opinions on its own initiative.
The Court's opinions may concern certain areas of expenditure, such as the two 2007 opinions on the new regulations for the European Development Fund (Nos 2/2007 and 9/2007).
They may also cover broader issues related to EU financial management, such as the Court's opinion on annual summaries, national declarations and audit work of national audit bodies (No 6/2007).
Opinions are based on the Court's expertise in EU financial management over the years, and in some cases relate to certain audits.
For example, in its opinion on ensuring the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation (No 3/2007), the Court refers to the recommendation contained in the previous special report that the Commission should take action to improve the reliability of sources of information on fraud.
The need for simplification is a recurring issue in the Court's opinions (see, for example, Opinion No 7/2007 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities).
In its 2007 opinion (No 6/2007), the Court presented its position on the annual summaries and on the so-called national declarations made voluntarily by certain Member States on its own initiative.
This opinion is discussed in detail in the section on the position of the Court.
4 5 Article 279 of the Treaty.
Article 248 (4)
Most of the Court's opinions have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union and are available on the Court's website.
26 ENFORCEMENT AND EFFECTIVENESS Public control plays a key role in modern democratic societies in terms of effective financial management.
Audit activities shall be transferred to addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, in order to determine whether their taxpayers' money is spent properly and appropriately.
In this way, public control is a key element of responsibility and a useful basis for public debate.
In this respect, the Court's actions have considerable potential for impact.
The Court's audits are a direct source of information for decision-makers of the institutions concerned in the European context, notably the Commission, Parliament, Council and Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the conclusions of the checks.
Although the Court's audit activities have the greatest impact on its published reports, they already have some impact throughout the audit itself.
In particular, all checks shall lead to detailed findings on the checks to be forwarded to the audit authority in order to confirm the accuracy of the Court's observations.
The final text of the report is also the subject of an adversarial procedure.
The audit entity's replies, in particular the Commission, shall be published together with the reports.
In its replies, the audited entity often takes into account the problems identified by the Court and presents the steps it intends to take to resolve them.
Following the completion of the audit work and the publication of the report, the audit results shall be evaluated and used by Parliament and the Council to carry out their policy tasks related to monitoring the use of budgetary resources.
As part of the annual discharge procedure, the Court's reports form the basis for the Council's recommendation and Parliament's decision.
In the discharge procedure for the implementation of the 2006 budget, special attention was paid to the Court's conclusions on structural policy.
In its resolution on discharge for 2006, Parliament refers directly to the action plan proposed by the Commission directly as a result of the conclusions of the Court's annual report and asks for quarterly reports on its progress.
Parliament also calls for better insight into the corrective action taken to address errors and shortcomings.
Special reports shall also be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, given that they are published during the year, the presentation of special reports and the discussion on this issue were usually held at Parliament and Council meetings at an earlier stage.
A good example of possible follow-up is the recent Special Report on Building Expenditure (No 2/2007).
In fact, Parliament has already entrusted its administrative body with the preparation of a report in which it would consider the possibility of creating a European Construction Office, which was entrusted with the responsibility for building and maintaining the buildings of the institutions and bodies of the European Union.
Another example is the Court's report on the checks carried out by Member States on exports of agricultural products (No 4/2007).
The Council and the Commission responded immediately to the Court's recommendations by amending the existing rules.
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by their involvement in the relevant media, which will increase attention and inspire public debate.
The media is the most direct source of information for citizens.
Overall, the media report for the Court's annual report is quite extensive, but the press has also followed some special reports with interest.
The report on fisheries (No 7/2007) has received great attention in the media.
In order to discuss the Court's report, an extraordinary meeting of the Fisheries Council was convened and the Commission launched a procedure which could lead to changes in the legislation in order to remedy the shortcomings identified.
This is an example of a report which, due to its importance and relevance, could make a very valuable contribution to the decision-making process.
This section provides some guidance on the impact of the Court's reports published in 2007.
For more information on the follow-up to the Court's earlier observations, see the relevant chapters of the Court's annual report.
The most frequently reported by the Court in its last annual report is that, despite the actions taken, the shortcomings identified in the previous year have only been partially resolved.
Opinions should also be taken into account when considering the impact of the Court's work.
The Court's objective is to examine more and more the long-term effects of its work as well as the opinion.
This can be illustrated by the example shown in Box 4.
27 BOX 4 ON THE INTERNAL COURT'S OPINION In a few years, the Court has published several opinions setting out ways to strengthen the overall internal control system of the EU budget.
The opinion on a single study in 2004 (No 2/2004) allowed for a significant contribution.
In this opinion, the Court proposes to incorporate the definition and implementation of all internal control into a single integrated control system comprising common principles and guidelines and to ensure that costs and benefits are proportionate.
The opinion on a single audit in 2007 turned into a reference document for the Commission, but also for the Court, in its comments on the definition of effective and effective internal control in the updated rules implementing the Financial Regulation (opinion No 1/2007).
The integrated audit approach is reflected in the Commission's action plan for an integrated internal control framework for 2006.
The Commission has taken steps to highlight the role and responsibilities of Member States in internal control, including a new commitment to submit annual summaries of opinions, declarations and audits carried out in accordance with the regulations applicable to each area of expenditure.
28 THE COURT'S OPINION SUMMARY AND DECLARATIONS The Commission and the Member States have taken initiatives to increase the involvement of Member States in the cycle of responsibility for EU measures.
Part of this is aimed at addressing the serious errors in legality and regularity that need to be identified in the main areas of budgetary expenditure, in particular in areas where the Commission and the Member States share management.
Among the most significant recent changes are the obligation for Member States to submit annual summaries of available audit results and declarations, voluntary initiatives taken by some Member States to submit national declarations and decisions by certain national audit authorities to draw up audit reports on the management of EU funds.
In its opinion No 6/2007, the Court considers that all these elements, if properly implemented, can contribute to improving the management and control of EU funds.
The opinion sets out the conditions under which these elements can be added value and applied by the Court in accordance with international auditing standards.
Given that annual summaries form part of the internal control system, the Court will assess in its usual control procedures to what extent they will improve the functioning of internal control.
Annual summaries can contribute to improving overall control of EU funds in shared management areas as they reflect strengths and weaknesses.
National statements are based on voluntary initiatives by some Member States, which are issued at the highest level and transmitted to national Parliaments.
Although they do not in themselves constitute conclusive evidence, they can be seen as an innovative element of internal control and can provide valuable information on the implementation of the EU budget.
The Court recognises the potential benefits of national declarations and national audit work to raise awareness of the importance of internal control of EU funds in the Member States.
The audit work carried out by the national control authorities (national control reports) on the legality and regularity of EU expenditure or national declarations could provide the Court with supporting evidence if the Court is able to ascertain the relevance and quality of the audit work in accordance with international audit standards.
In such a case, the Court will take into account the notes issued by the national control authorities when planning and carrying out their own controls.
National declarations and control reports shall contain declarations concerning control systems.
National declarations may also contain certain opinions on the legality and regularity of transactions.
Experience has shown that the main risk to the legality and regularity of transactions is the reliability of the information provided by the beneficiaries at the time of the application for EU funding and not the way in which these data are processed by the Member States and the Commission.
The declaration that systems operate in accordance with the requirements set out in EU regulations cannot in itself guarantee the legality and regularity of the transactions concerned.
Recognising the need to strengthen the role of national control authorities in the overall context of responsibility for EU expenditure, the Contact Committee of the EU Supreme Audit Authorities has set up a working group on harmonisation of standards and control criteria adapted to the EU context.
Common approaches and control methods increase the possibility for the Court to use the work of national control authorities, provided that the quality of the work is directly demonstrated.
VERIFICATION OF THE EU BUDGET In September 2007, the Commission published a consultative document to launch an open debate on EU funding in the framework of a wide-ranging budget review.
At the beginning of April 2008, the Court presented its contribution to the debate in which it set out the main principles to be taken into account when drawing up the new programmes in order to ensure European added value in order to ensure clarity of objectives, simplification, sense of reality, transparency and accountability.
The Court recommended, inter alia, that: • • focusing expenditure programmes not on expenditure but on expenditure; making better use of the concept of acceptable risks in the development and adoption of expenditure programmes; the degree of discretion to be given to national or regional authorities in the management and financial reporting of expenditure programmes; considering whether VAT-based own resources still constitute a meaningful part of the own resources system, while reviewing all compensation mechanisms based on guiding principles for the system of own resources in the areas of fairness, transparency, cost efficiency, simplicity and contributions by Member States. 29
The Court presents its future audit work in the work programme submitted to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and available to the public on the Court's website in 2007.
The Court monitors the implementation of the work programme as a basis for improvement in subsequent years.
In 2007, there was a significant increase in the number of adopted special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies.
The number of special reports and opinions was similar as in previous years.
Annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Funds have been published as planned.
Results 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 Special annual reports 23 20 23 29 Opinions 2 11 8 9 In 2007, the Court first applied its new Assurance model (for audit certainty) to achieve the most effective results.
The Court also decided to provide more detailed information on the results of its Statement of Assurance, in particular on the results of the audits of individual transactions.
The Court considers that it provides useful information for monitoring purposes, together with a schematic presentation of the results of the evaluation of the system, which enable the measurement of progress in financial management.
The PEER-REVIEW ACTION PLAN AND PROCEDURES The Court is constantly seeking to improve all aspects of its work.
In 2005, the Court decided to undergo peer review.
To this end, senior staff of a small number of the highest audit authorities shall assess the organisation or performance of the sister institution on the basis of professional standards and professional experience.
Since all the highest audit authorities have similar tasks, peer review procedures can make a very valuable contribution to improving audit authorities.
In preparation for the peer review procedure, the Court carried out in 2006 a self-assessment which enabled the institution to examine its strengths and weaknesses.
In 2007, the Court adopted an action plan to remedy the shortcomings identified.
The plan included a total of 23 actions, six of which concerned task forces involving members of the Court and staff from various fields and degrees of institution hierarchy: 31 1.Figures, mission, strategic objectives and planning 2. Management structure (managership), structure and organisation 3. Internal performance indicators4.Workers and communication 5.External communication policy 6.Improving the quality of reports Among the results of these task groups in 2007, there were new declarations of mandate, plan and values, as well as strategic objectives for the Court, a new strategy and guidelines for internal communication and a report on how to improve the quality of the reports.
ESTIMATION AND QUALITY IMPROVING CONTROL COOPERATION Many of the strategic objectives adopted concern institutions' products.
The Court seeks to increase the visibility of its audits through the selection of relevant topics, the approximation of time and the clearer and clearer drafting of its reports.
It also started to increase the number of performance controls and improve their quality.
In 2007, considerable efforts were made to further develop the methodological basis for the Court's work as a key condition for high quality audit work.
In 2008, a new manual for auditing accounting and compliance was drawn up to be completed.
The Court's new economic audit manual was adopted at the end of 2006 and was therefore made available to auditors as guidance for the first time in 2007.
In order to further improve the quality of the Court's work in carrying out tasks, additional guidelines have been developed and several seminars and trainings have been organised.
In addition, the Court has set new ambitious targets for the use of information technology.
In the new IT strategy adopted in 2007, the Court stated its intention to increase the capacity to carry out IT audits and to transform the use of Computer Assisted Audit Technics (CAAT) into an accounting and performance control practice.
It is important that the quantity and quality of the Court's product can be properly assessed.
The Court intends to develop performance indicators which will enable it to provide various results data in future annual activity reports.
In the future, the Court plans to develop a methodology for assessing the cost-effectiveness of the institution32.
33 30 years of existence of the Court In 2007, the European Court of Auditors celebrated 30 years of existence as an external audit body of the European Union.
The celebrations began with a greater presence of the Court (seminars, information, etc.) in most of the European Union's capitals as part of the European Day 2007 activities.
On 17 October 2007 the exhibition entitled "Rights" was opened in the ECA for 30 years, which included many thematic charts, sound images with more than 150 photographs and video fragments and many documents.
The Luxembourg Central Bank issued a silver commemorative coin for this occasion.
On 18 October 2007, the European Court of Auditors organised a seminar entitled "The Future of Public Financial Control" in the EU.
IMPROVING THE COURT'S CONTROL ASPECTS Many of the tasks set out in the Action Plan concern communication, which was the subject of increased efforts in 2007.
Among other things, a new website has been launched and information material has been published on the annual report in a format which is easier to access and the Court has agreed to a new procedure for presenting special reports to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
Other events, mostly directly or partly related to the action plan, concerned the modernisation of the Court's accounting system and new strategic documents in the field of human resources and IT.
The Court has also launched the modernisation of its IT systems in the areas of control, translation, knowledge and communication, management and staff information.
In addition, the Court made progress in 2007 in preparing for the second extension of its main building, which is necessary due to the recent and planned increase in the number of employees.
In 2008, as in previous years, the Court will present an annual report on the European Development Funds and specific annual reports on European agencies and other bodies, together with an annual report on the EU general budget.
Expenditure planning under the general budget of the EU takes place in seven-year cycles, i.e. within the financial framework.
2007 was the first year of the new financial framework focusing on policy implementation.
The Court takes this opportunity to discuss in more detail the innovations previously introduced, namely the Commission's transition to business-related budgeting and management, as well as the distribution of the budget into 31 policy areas with some 220 actions.
The 2007 Annual Report is divided into policy groups, which are largely but not fully linked to the new headings of the financial framework.
Box 5 summarises the selected audit tasks which have been completed or are close to completion, broken down by control group, and which should be published in 2008 or early 2009.
34 7 More detailed information on the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2008 work programme on our website (www.eca.europa.eu).
35 BOX 5 Protection and management of natural resources Implementation of the milk quota system in the Member States which acceded to the EU on 1 May 2004. Management of EU support measures for the storage of cereals in the public sector Procedures for the clearance of accounts under the common agricultural policy Structural policy, transport, research and energy Procedures for the control and evaluation of large investment projects during the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods of the European Union Solidarity Fund to what extent does it work quickly, effectively and flexibly?
The Intelligent Energy for Europe programme (2003-2006) The effectiveness of Structural Funds spending on waste water treatment for the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods of the Structural Instrument for the Preparation for Accession (ISPA) 2000-2006 Are implementing agencies an appropriate instrument for the implementation of the EU budget?
External actions European Commission assistance for reconstruction after the tsunami and hurricane Mitch The effectiveness of EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice Own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies, internal policies binding tariff information (CITA) How do Union agencies achieve results?Banking activities in the Mediterranean financial management of the Commission When selecting new audit tasks, the Court took into account a number of priority topics to be addressed in 2008.
36 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH EU NATIONAL AUDIT MANAGEMENTS In accordance with the Treaty, the European Court of Auditors is to carry out audits in cooperation with the highest audit bodies of the Member States (ORKB), while the Amsterdam Treaty added later:.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Ongoing contacts shall be maintained by liaison officers appointed by individual CMRs.
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2007, the delegation of the Court attended the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the European Union's ORKB Chairs in Helsinki, which took place on 3 and 4 December by the Finnish Court of Auditors.
The meeting focused on risk management, acceptable risks and an integrated internal control system for managing EU funds.
The Court will host the next meeting of the Contact Committee on 1 and 2 December 2008.
In 2007, two meetings of liaison officers were held in order to prepare a meeting of the Contact Committee.
The first meeting was held on 23 and 24 April in The Hague and the second in Luxembourg on 11 and 12 October chaired by the European Court of Auditors.
The two meetings discussed recent developments in EU financial management and discussed the work of the Task Force on Cooperation in the field of the Contact Committee itself, its activities and possibilities for improvement, including the proposed more effective actions.
The meeting also discussed the activities of the various working groups and expert groups set up by the Contact Committee to discuss specific issues of common interest.
The Court took part in meetings of the networks of candidate and candidate countries under Horizon 2020 (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey).
On 11 and 12 June 2007, the presidents of the CCC of candidate and candidate countries met in Skopje (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia).
Control rules are an important aspect of all efforts to improve practical cooperation in the control of EU funds.
Consequently, in 2006, the Contact Committee decided to set up a working group chaired by one of the members of the Court, Josef Bonnici, which should develop common control standards and comparable control standards based on internationally recognised control principles and adapted to the EU context.
The first meetings of the European Court of Auditors in Luxembourg were held in 2007.
In December 2007, a report on the progress of the Working Group was submitted to the Contact Committee in Helsinki and a resolution was adopted on the subject.
The Court continued its active participation and participation in the improvement of international control rules through membership of European and international organisations of public financial control bodies, including Eurosai and Intosai.
Within Eurosai, the Court is represented in the Working Group on the Environment and the Working Group on Information Technology and participates in the Eurosai Education Committee.
The Court hosted a seminar on the analysis of the most common IT problems of the ORKB in Luxembourg on 17 and 18 April 2007 and a seminar entitled "Economic Control" on 4-6 December 2007.
Since the Court became a full member of Intosai in 2004, it has actively participated in the work of the Sub-Committee on Financial Audit Guidelines (FAS), the Sub-Committee on Compliance Control (CAS) and the Sub-Committee on Economic Control (PAS).
The Court participated in all meetings of the vehicle alarm system held in 2007 and made an active contribution to the published and discussed guidelines.
The vehicle alarm system appointed a representative of the ERR (Jesús Lázaro Cuenca) as one of the representatives of the vehicle alarm system as part of the draft Steering Committee of the Technical Standards Committee for Quality of Control and also attended the CAS meeting in New Delhi in January 2007.
In addition, the Translation Directorate of the Court made available resources for the linguistic review of the document in Spanish and German.
The Court also took part in the 19th Congress of Intosai (Incosai) in Mexico on 5-10 November 2007, which raised two main issues: sovereign debt, governance, accountability and audit, together with cost-efficiency assessment systems based on commonly accepted key indicators.
In 2008, the Court will continue to participate actively in Eurosai and Intosai working groups, seminars and meetings.
37 Helsinki Contact Committee, December 2007.
38 STAFF POLICY The Court's most important capital is its staff.
They have a broad academic and professional context and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's findings.
In its recent modernisation of staff policy, the Court focused on recruitment, training, career development and improving working conditions.
The percentage of men and women employed in the active service (officials, temporary and contract staff, but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) was almost the same on 31 December 2007.
As shown in the chart below, the proportion of women employed by the Court has increased since 2001 as a result of the Court's efforts to achieve gender balance.
Percentage of male and female workers in the Court 46% 12/2001 54% of female 50% 12/2007 50%
The following graph provides an analysis of the participation of men and women in the distribution of responsibilities as at 31 December 2007.
Like the other European institutions, the Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment and recognises the need to promote more actively the growth of the number of women at the higher levels of the Court's governance.
13 out of 56 directors and heads of departments/departments (23%) are women, representing an increase of 3% compared to 2006.
Most of them are busy with the Translation Directorate and administrative services.
12/2006 12/2006 M 67 % F 20% 12/2006 12/2007 M 77% 12/2006 M 80% 12/2007 M 64 % F 23 % 39 F 68 % M 32 % M 32% W 68% F 68 % Counsellors of its Secretaries (AST-Niveau) F 33 % F 36 % JOBS OF THE MEN OF THE SPIRITAL COUNCILS IN THE Secretariat (AST-NIVEAU) The Secretaries for Financial Audit and Administrative Boards (AD-niveau) Directors and Directors of the Departments/Directors of the Employment Policy of the Court are in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff are made up of both officials and contracted temporary staff.
In 2007, the Court had 179 employees: 117 officials, 35 temporary staff and 27 contract staff.
This large number reflects the progress made in 2007 in terms of staffing job vacancies.
Employment depends on the availability of reserve lists from EPSO competitions and on the number of candidates; this process is sometimes quite long and results in an exceptionally high percentage of job vacancies.
The Court is constantly seeking to shorten the time limits in the recruitment process.
There is no doubt that the Court is a young body (63% of employees are less than 44 years old).
Among the 102 staff of the Court, who are 55 years of age or older, there are 27 of the 56 directors and heads of the department/reference-endum, which means that there will be significant changes at the highest levels over the next five to ten years.
40 38 68 94 114 81 147 149 ALTER 25-29 45-49 30-34 50-54 35-39 55-59 40-44 20-24 > 60 153 CONTROL TRAVELS During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to Member States and other beneficiary countries of EU funds to obtain appropriate evidence.
These visits normally apply to central and local authorities involved in the approval, management and payment of EU funds and to final beneficiaries.
The teams of controllers usually consist of two to three controllers, and the length of the examination trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of examination and the distance.
In 2007, travel expenses related to control travel amounted to EUR 0.49 million (compared to EUR 0.43 million in 2006).
This corresponds to a significant investment in order to ensure a sufficient level of control of all levels and the location of the management of EU funds.
The table below shows the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in EU Member States and outside the Union in 2007.
Travel to Member States in 2007 50 40 30 20 10 0 Travel to candidate countries and other non-member countries in 2007 4 3 2 1 0 41 Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Germany Portugal Italy Spain Belgium Greece Czech Republic France United Kingdom Denmark Netherlands Ireland Finland Austria Poland Lithuania Hungary Bulgaria Sweden Slovenia Slovakia Latvia Malta Russia Moldova Lesotho junia Tunisia Indonesia Bosnia and Herzegovina Albania Togo Sri Lanka Sudan Niger Nicaragua Morocco Madagascar Mali Kenya Ghana
In 2007, the Court's staff completed an average of 12 days of vocational training.
The percentage of specialised training increased significantly compared to 2006.
The main changes in training include the introduction of training courses in the Court's economic control manual and related guidelines, Commission accounting rules, application of accrual accounting (ABAC), SAP financial systems and other IT applications and IT audits.
Language courses in 2007 accounted for 52% of the total number of training days.
The Court adopted an indicative training plan for 2008-2011 which provides for the development of vocational training in the coming years, one of the priorities being the implementation of individual development plans for individual workers.
The Court also examines the possibility of introducing a European Public Sector Auditor Diploma (PSAD).
Box 6 presents a portrait of the employees of selected departments or departments within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work done, the employees involved in the work and their background and professional experience. 42
43 BOX 6 FISHING REPORT BOX (Special Report No 7/2007) In 2007, the Court's report on monitoring systems, inspections and sanctions in the field of fish stocks (Special Report No 7/2007) attracted a great deal of interest to both policy makers and the media.
The articles contained in many newspapers and the rapid reactions both in the Commission and in the Council have shown the relevance and relevance of the report.
The starting point for this success was a team composed of several auditors of the Court, who worked closely with the rapporteur member, Mr Kikis Kazamas and his office.
Emmanuel Rauch, a French controller who has worked on the farm for several years, and his Spanish colleague Alejandro Ballester were team leaders during the preparatory phase in autumn 2005.
The audit included travel in six Member States, from Denmark to Italy, both to central administrative authorities for access to control systems and to major ports to assess the practical functioning of the systems.
To the extent that knowledge of the languages of the members of the team was insufficient, translators from the language service department of the Court provided assistance.
The audit team is very proud to have contributed to the fact that political decision-makers are gradually seeing the serious consequences of the implementation of the Community's fisheries policy.
Other control authorities also expressed an interest in the assessment as it provides suggestions and know-how, for example, on the forthcoming analysis of a similar issue in the Baltic States.
From left to right, from bottom to top 1. Alejandro BALLESTER GALLARDO, Financial Audit Board (ES on the farm for 5 years); Kikis KAZAMIAS, Member of the Court (CY on the farm for 3 years); Riemer HAAGSMA, Head of Unit (NL on the farm for 30 years); Emmanuel RAUCH, Chief Financial Audit Board (FR not for 14 years in the yard).
Jean-Marc DANIELLE series, attaché of the Cabinet (FR not for 5 years at court); François OSETE, Head of Cabinet (FR/ES for 23 years at court); Robert MARKUS, Chief Financial Audit Board (NL for 13 years at court); Bertrand TANGUY, Financial Audit Board and E. (FR for 3 years at court); Pietro PURICELLA, Financial Audit Board (IT for 11 years).
3. Anne POULSEN, translator (DA, for 16 years at court); Maria del Carmen Jimenez, chief financial audit advisor (ES at the farm for 15 years); Cécile Ramirez, assistant to the secretariat (FR for 5 years at court); Neophytos NEOPHYTOU, attaché cabinet (CY 3 years at court); Krzysztof ZALEGA, Financial Audit Board (PL 4 years at court).
Other members of the team (not in the picture) Valéria ROTA, financial audit board (IT on the holding for 8 years); Adeline DOMINGUES, secretariat assistant (FR for 8 years on the holding); Juha VANHATALO, financial audit board and E. (FI for 3 years on the holding); Paul STAFFORD, Head of Unit (UK for 18 years on the holding).
44 BUDGETARY INFORMATION The Court's budget accounts for approximately 0,1% of the EU general budget or 1.8% of the administrative budget of EU institutions and bodies.
There has been an increase of 17% over the last three years.
This increase is mainly linked to the consequences of the enlargement of the EU in 2004 and 2007.
A further substantial increase in the Court's budget for construction activities (from 2006 to 2008) was almost doubled since the future newly employed staff were to be placed in the second building (building K3), which is planned to be completed in 2013.
In 2007, approximately 72% of the total budget comes from human resources.
BUDGET 2006 2007 2008 Definitive appropriations (000 EUR) Institution members 11 350 11 270 12 061 Officials and temporary staff 77 907 82 583 88 712 Other external staff and services 4 223 4 014 4 248 Mission expenses 3 100 3 000 3 212 Other expenditure on staff of the institution 1 923 2 056 2 286 Title 1 total 98 503 102 923 110 519 Building 6 287 8 126 12 110 Data and telecommunications processing 4 575 518 5 879 Equipment and equipment: purchase, hire and maintenance 1 320 1 396 1 147 Current expenditure on service equipment 807 435 425 Meetings and conferences 352 872 876 Information and publications 1 353 1 810 1 813 Title 2 total 14 694 18 157 22 250 Court of Auditors Total 113 197 121 080 132 769
The INTERNAL Service of the Court's Internal Audit Service aims to assist the Court in achieving its objectives through a systematic and methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
In addition, the Internal Audit Department makes proposals to improve the effectiveness of the Court.
Overall, the aim is to assess the performance of individual services in implementing strategies, programmes and actions to continuously improve.
In 2007, the Court's Internal Audit Department focused on auditing accounting (including supporting the work of the Court's external auditor), ex ante control, the implementation of internal control standards, the Court's recent enlargement (K2 Building) and the Court's recruitment procedures.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert, shall monitor the internal auditor's activities and ensure his independence.
In addition, it shall examine and approve the work programme and internal auditor's reports and, if necessary, entrust them with specific audit tasks.
The Committee met eight times in 2007.
IN THE Opinion of the Court's external auditor for the financial year 2006, submitted on 28 September 2007, we find that the financial statements provide a true and fair view of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2006 and the economic result for the financial year ending that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and its implementing rules, the generally adopted accounting rules and the internal rules of the European Court of Auditors.
OJ C 292, 5.12.2007.
European Court of Auditors 2007 Annual Activity Report Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities 2008
Our global network of sales points can be obtained by fax (352) 29 29 42758 http://eca.europa.eu/portal/page/portal/eca_main_pages/splash_page
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS FOR THE PUBLICATION OF THE OFFICES OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES L.2985 LUXEMBOURG ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 QJ-AA-08-001-DE-C
ISSN 1684-0666 PL Annual Activity Report 2008 European Court of Auditors
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2008
2 Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Here is a free phone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Some mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or these calls may be billed.
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2009 ISBN 978-929207-202-5 © European Communities, 2009 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium Printing on WHITE CHLORINE-free PAPER
The presentation of the President of the Court of Auditors, as an independent EU audit body, makes a unique contribution to improving the EU's financial management and promoting transparency and accountability by providing control services and performing an exemplary role.
2008 marked a significant number of significant progress and significant changes in the EU financial management referred to in this annual activity report.
An important event was the expert assessment of the European Court of Auditors carried out by an international expert team, which led to a positive conclusion on the adequacy of the Court's audit management framework and the independence and objectivity of its work.
In its annual report for the financial year 2007, published in November 2008, the Court issued for the first time an opinion on the reliability of the EU accounts.
However, as in previous years, too high amounts of errors in legality and regularity have been identified in areas of the EU budget, which represent the largest part of the expenditure.
In 2008, the Court also recognised changes at EU and national level which could lead to significant improvements in EU financial management in the future.
The two examples set out in this Annual Activity Report relate to the ongoing review process of the EU budget, to which the Court has actively contributed, and to the Communication from the Commission on the Acceptable Risk of Error.
In the field of international relations, the Court has played a leading role in organising the meetings of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the European Union's Supreme Audit Authority (ORKB) on the reform of the EU budget and the renewed Lisbon Strategy, and has also played a host role in recent workshops devoted to the role of the EU-ORKB in response to the current financial crisis.
Following rapid changes in the audit environment, the Court is forced to adapt through internal reforms to better fulfil its obligations under the Treaty and to effectively fulfil its tasks.
In 2008, the Court took significant steps to implement its mandate and action plan to develop a control strategy for 2009-2012.
The audit strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of controls and improving efficiency through the best use of resources.
These objectives will be essential for the Court's work programmes during this period, as well as for its efforts to continuously improve and exploit the main challenges and opportunities of exploiting the potential for improvement set out in the peer review procedure.
Through their competences and involvement, the Court's staff have a key role to play in carrying out the Court's audit work as an independent guardian of the citizens' financial interests in order to improve financial management.
On behalf of the Court and on my own behalf, I would like to thank all the workers for their commitment and professional work last year.
Special thanks for his personal commitment and commitment are due to our former secretary-general, Michel Hervé, who was expelled at the end of 2008.
I wish you a pleasant reading of this annual activity report, which will allow you to read the Court and review the actions taken in 2008.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the control of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
LEITTBILD The independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is characterised by fairness and impartiality and is recognised as a professional, quality and impact of its work and provides its addressees with valuable support for improving EU financial management.
Value Independence, honesty and impartiality Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its employees.
Professionalism Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Value added Preparation of relevant and timely high-quality reports based on reliable findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of the recipients and containing relevant and guiding statements.
Excellence and effectiveness of recognition of individual values, helping to develop specific skills and rewarding achievements.
THE COURT'S ROLE AND WORK THE COURT'S WORK IS THE EU BUDGET The European Union's budget is around EUR 120 billion, representing around 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of the 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States EU funds play an important role in financing public actions, which corresponds approximately to the GNI of some Member States.
The revenue of the European Union consists mainly of contributions from Member States from their gross national income (GNI 65,4 %) or VAT (VAT 16,9%) collected by Member States.
Agricultural duties and duties (so-called traditional own resources 16,5 %) also represent a significant part of revenue.
Over time, the structure of the budget has changed and agricultural and cohesion policy are the main areas of expenditure (see Box 1).
BOX 1 FOR WHAT DOES THE EU TAKE CARE OF ITS EXAMPLES?
The EU budget is financed by Member States' financial contributions (mainly based on national GNI) and agricultural duties and duties.
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than the national budget, partly because of different responsibilities.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually represent a significant part of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, usually in the form of payments to farmers across the Union, has been the main part of budget expenditure, although it is now showing a downward trend.
In 2009, 45.3% of the budget was allocated to the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly in agriculture and rural development.
Since the 1980s, a significant part of cohesion expenditure, i.e. regional and social development, has been earmarked for co-financing various projects, ranging from road construction projects in Poland to unemployment training in Spain.
A sustainable growth expenditure of 39.6% of the budget is foreseen for 2009, part of which is cohesion policy.
This budgetary area also covers the majority of the EU's research budget.
Furthermore, to a large extent EU funding is devoted to development and humanitarian aid, as well as to countries with close relations with the Union or candidate countries.
6.7% of the budget is allocated to the management of the Community institutions.
European Union citizenship, freedom, security and justice The European Union as an international partner Managing Europe's agriculture in terms of conservation and management of natural resources 45.3 % 1.2 % 7.2 % 6.7 % of EU cohesion spending Sustainable growth Source: European Union general budget for the financial year 2009 (OJ L 69, 13.3.2009). 39.6%
The budget shall be adopted annually by the Council on the basis of a seven-year financial framework, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and by the European Parliament elected directly on a proposal from the European Commission.
The Commission shall draw up the budget and be responsible for its implementation.
Most of the budget in particular in the field of agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure shall be implemented in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments on the basis of applications from the beneficiaries themselves, both farmers and project managers throughout the Union8.
Democratic society needs complete and reliable public information as a basis for discussion and decision-making, both to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
The EU, like its Member States, has an external audit body which acts as an independent guardian of citizens' financial interests.
The European Court of Auditors shall act as an external EU auditor who shall ensure that EU funds have been properly booked and spent in accordance with law, taking due account of the optimal use of funds, regardless of where they are used.
The Court's audit work is used by Parliament, the Council and the Commission and by the Member States to improve EU financial management.
The Court's work is an important basis for the annual discharge procedure during which Parliament decides, on the basis of Council recommendations, whether the Commission has fulfilled its responsibility for implementing the budget in the previous year.
Despite its name, the Court has no judicial powers.
In budgetary areas under shared management, Member States shall cooperate with the Commission in establishing supervisory and control systems, i.e. internal control, in order to ensure the proper use and proper use of funds.
Internal control therefore has a European and national dimension.
In addition to the Court's activities, many national audit bodies examine EU funds, provided that they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
9 OVERVIEW OF THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU BUDGET FOR Internal Control at EU level Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) European Court of Auditors Member States Implementing bodies National audit authorities at national level
How does the Court present its results?
The Court shall publish the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: the annual accounts of the results of the financial control in the form of a statement of assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and the activities carried out under the European Development Fund3.
Special annual reports on the results of audits of the financial statements of the agencies and bodies of the Communities.
Special reports on the results of selected performance or legality checks.
10 1 Further information on the Court's audit methods can be found on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 In accordance with the Treaty, the Court is required to issue such a statement or opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In this context, the underlying transactions are usually payments to final beneficiaries from the EU budget.
The annual statement of assurance is widely known under the French acronym DAS.
Unlike practices in the Member States, the Court makes such a statement on the EU budget as a whole.
3 The European Development Fund (EDF) is based both on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP)
The Court carries out an audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with the International Audit Principles (ISA), which apply both to the public and private sectors.
However, the existing international control rules do not fully cover the Court's compliance check.
The Court, in cooperation with national audit bodies, actively participates in the development of international audit standards which promote standardisation bodies (INTOSAI, IFAC) 4.
In order to ensure compliance of payments with the rules and legal framework, the Court is based on the results of an analysis of both supervisory and control systems aimed at preventing and detecting and correcting errors in respect of legality and regularity as well as on a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
If the systems are reviewed and considered reliable, the number of transactions that the Court will have to examine in order to draw reasonable conclusions on their legality and regularity will be reduced.
Other sources, such as the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions.
In the case of performance control, the Court uses a number of control methods to assess management and monitoring systems and to assess results on the basis of legislative criteria with regard to the principles of sound financial management.
When selecting topics for performance control, the Court seeks to identify the areas of control in which the greatest impact can be expected in the form of the proposed potential for improvement in terms of savings, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending. 11 The Council decision on the association of overseas countries and territories (OCTs) has been closed.
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see external relations, development and enlargement) and partly through delegations in beneficiary countries.
Investment instruments under the EFF shall be managed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and shall not be audited by the Court.
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Federation of Accountants (International Federation of Accountants).
BOX 2 does not have the resources necessary for the detailed examination of all operations financed from the EU budget.
Therefore, in order to obtain a result representative of the population as a whole, in the context of the creation of DAS, it uses statistical sampling methods.
The selection of the sample shall be carried out by random selection of a representative sample of underlying transactions from all areas of the Union budget, such as agriculture, in order to carry out a detailed assessment.
The Court monitors these operations up to the final recipient of aid, such as a farmer in France.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks, e.g. to verify that the relevant information contained in the proposal is consistent with the reality.
The statistical sample allows the extrapolation of results for the population, i.e. a specific area of revenue or expenditure, and can serve as a basis for the general assessment together with the information resulting from the evaluation of the system.
In order to determine how the opinion has been delivered, the Court is in practice comparing the results of its statistical checks on samples with a certain ceiling which it considers acceptable in relation to the so-called materiality threshold.
Accidental selection of a representative sample Payment to the agricultural holding in France Population of agricultural payments
The Court of Auditors shall act as a collegial body consisting of 27 members, each composed of one member per Member State.
All audit reports and opinions shall be adopted by the College.
The Court shall consist of five audit groups to which individual members are assigned.
In line with the organisational chart (see page 17), there are four thematic control groups covering different budgetary areas (protection and management of natural resources within structural policies, transport, research and energy within external policies on income, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or coordination, communication, evaluation, quality assurance and development) shall be responsible for horizontal issues such as coordination in the field of assurance, quality assurance, the development of the audit methodology of the Court and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports.
The Management Committee shall also be responsible for preparing all administrative matters requiring a formal decision of the Court.
MEMBERS of the Court shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, for a six-year term, as proposed by each Member State.
Members shall carry out their duties in full independence for the benefit of the general good of the European Union.
In addition to functions within the college, which is responsible for final decisions on audits and opinions, as well as on broader strategic and administrative issues, each member shall be responsible for its specific tasks mainly in the field of audit.
The proper examination work is usually the task of auditors in each examination department and is coordinated by the relevant member with the support of his office.
The member shall then adopt the report in the audit group or at the Court and after its adoption in the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties.
On 1 January 2008, three new members Michel Crete (France), Harald Noack (Germany) and Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) replaced their predecessors after their term of office.
In addition, the mandate of four members of the Council was extended for a period of six years by Hubert Weber (Austria), Maarten B. Engwand (the Netherlands), David Bostock (the United Kingdom) and Ioannis Sarmas (Greece).
The President-in-Office of the European Court of Auditors shall be the President, elected by members from among them for a period of three years, with the possibility of voting again.
The President shall represent the Court in all its external relations, in particular in relations with the discharge authority, with the other institutions of the European Union and with the highest audit bodies of the Member States and beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, a Portuguese member, Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, was elected President of the Court. 14
The Secretary-General of the Secretary-General shall be the highest-ranking member of the institution and shall be appointed by the Court for a period of six years which may be re-elected.
The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the management of the Court's staff and staff, including vocational training and the Translation Directorate, with the exception of Ireland, from one unit to the official language (22).
The Secretary-General shall also be responsible for the secretariat of the Court.
The former Secretary-General, Michel Hervé, left the Court on 31 October 2008.
On 9 October 2008, John Speed was appointed Secretary-General, M.D.G.b.
On 10 March 2009, the Court appointed Eduardo Ruiz García as new Secretary-General with effect from 16 March 2009. THE COURT'S STAFF Budget for the financial year 2008 provides for 858 posts of the European Court of Auditors (as at 31 December 2008).
The Court's auditors shall have broad training profiles and appropriate professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular accounting, financial management, internal and external audit and legal and economic sciences.
Like other EU institutions, the Court employs citizens of all Member States and employees are subject to the EU Staff Regulations.
15 THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2009 Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKKsten (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maart B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július Molnár (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIENI. (LT) Massimo Vari (IT) Ovidiu ISPER (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojka Antonč (SI) Igors LUSK (S) (S-KAS) MES (S-KA (S) MES-KA (S) MENZA (S) ME (S-ART (S) (S-KA (S-LA) MENS)
SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINION5 ANNUAL REPORTS FROM THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2007 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET With regard to all relevant issues, the annual accounts provide a true and reliable picture of the EU's financial situation and performance.
The limits set out in last year's annual report on the reliability of accounts for the financial year 2006 no longer apply due to improvements made in 2007.
In certain areas, such as the Union's administrative expenditure, the Court gives unlimited opinions on legality and regularity.
However, the Court cannot deliver an unqualified opinion on most expenditure areas.
Although most of the payments audited by the Court were carried out in accordance with the rules, the Court still considers that the level of error in payments to final beneficiaries, such as farmers and beneficiaries of projects financed by EU funds, is too high.
With the exception of cohesion policy measures with an error rate of at least 11%, the Court's estimated error rate in these policy groups ranges from 2 to 5 %.
In some areas of expenditure, in particular in areas previously covered by internal or external policies, the estimated error rate decreased but would not change enough to change the overall picture.
The result does not imply that these infringements are due to fraud or that most transactions in these areas are unlawful or illegal.
SITUATION IN CERTAIN AREAS In three areas: administrative and other, economic and financial expenditure and revenue, audits of a representative sample of transactions carried out by the Court showed a low estimated error rate.
In the largest area of EU agricultural expenditure and natural resources, the estimated overall error rate is still significant.
The disproportionately high proportion of this error rate lies in rural development, including often complex schemes.
In the case of expenditure of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF), the error rate estimated by the Court is almost below the materiality threshold of 2%.
As in previous years, cohesion policy, which accounts for more than a third of the budget, is the most defective area.
On the basis of the Court's random estimates, at least 11% of the total amount of the refund should not have been paid.
5 The purpose of this section is to introduce the Court's reports and opinions rather than a summary of them.
For more information, see the full text of the Court's documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
19 IMPROVING MONITORING AND CONTROL The high level of error in areas such as cohesion is partly due to inherent risks arising from a large number of beneficiaries applying for EU funding under complex rules and regulations.
The deficiencies identified also contribute to the design and functioning of the systems.
Most EU-funded programmes contain provisions on corrective actions which, on a multi-annual basis, provide for recovery of amounts unduly paid due to errors.
However, no data are available on the impact of these measures.
This means that it is not possible to determine whether they effectively reduce the proportion of illegal and/or irregular expenditure.
Since 2000, the Commission has been developing a reform programme to improve the management of the EU budget, including the 2006 Action Plan.
By the end of 2007, the Commission carried out two thirds of the sub-measures provided for in the Action Plan.
However, it is too early to assess the impact of these measures.
Improved high-level controls, such as monitoring by the Commission of Member States' control activities, cannot compensate for insufficient controls at a lower level, such as on-the-spot checks.
However, the benefits of increased on-the-spot checks should be considered in relation to costs.
The Court recommends that the Union's political bodies determine the appropriate level of risk of error.
In order to reduce the level of error in EU payments, the Court recommends simplifying legislation and legislation, improving internal control measures and improving monitoring and reporting.
20 BOX 3 BY AREA OF EXPENDITURE The table summarises the overall assessment of supervisory and control systems in accordance with the relevant chapters of the 2007 annual report and provides an overview of the results of the Court's audits on representative samples of transactions.
Specific evaluations in the 2007 annual report. Cohesion: EUR 42 billion Agriculture and natural resources: EUR 51 billion External assistance, development and enlargement: EUR 6 billion Research, energy and transport: EUR 4.5 billion Education and citizenship: EUR 1.5 billion Administrative and other expenditure: EUR 8 MilliaSrdAePnaEruDro Economy and finance: EUR 0.5 billion Revenue Assessment of supervisory and control systems The extent to which the level of error (FQ) is partly satisfactoryly high.
For the EFF, the annual accounts of the European Development Fund (EDF) present in all material respects a true and reliable picture of the financial situation and the performance of the EDF.
The opinion on the legality and regularity of EDF transactions shall be limited to payments.
In addition, a further 28 special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies were adopted in 2008.
21 BOX 4 IN THE RAM INTERPRETATION OF ENTERTAINMENTS OF THE REVIEW The Auditor may issue the following opinions: • without reservation the audit opinion if it is proven that the accounts are reliable or the underlying transactions, i.e. payments, are legal and correct in all material respects; • the negative audit opinion if the level of error in the underlying transactions is material and comprehensive or not reliable; • the refusal to issue an audit opinion if the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and adequate evidence to support his audit opinion and the possible effects are both material and comprehensive; • the limited audit opinion if it is not possible to deliver an unqualified opinion, but the effects of the dispute or the limitation of the scope of the audit are not so important or exhaustive that it requires a negative opinion from the examination or refusal of the audit opinion.
SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 2008The Court published a total of twelve special reports in 2008.
In order to improve the readability and ease of use of the reports, the Court decided to publish its special reports in a new format and make them available directly on its website (www.eca.europa.eu), with only reference to their publication in the Official Journal.
As in previous years, the reports dealt with research on financial management issues in many different fields, from the effectiveness of the European Solidarity Fund (N° 3/2008) to the support of the European Union for the storage of cereals in public storage (N° 11/2008).
The Court's audits have revealed various types of problems with varying impacts and have led to recommendations on improving financial management and improving efficiency and effectiveness.
The choice of topics for performance control and design are the responsibility of the Court and are based on criteria such as risk analysis, potential for improvement and public interest.
In the special reports published in 2008, broken down by themes, the Court answered the following questions: Conservation and management of natural resources • Has the procedure for fixing national milk quotas in the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 resulted in the timely establishment of management and operational control systems as a solid basis for applying the EU system?
(No 3/2008) • Has the Commission adequately planned, monitored and evaluated the Intelligent Energy for Europe programme (to promote energy efficiency, use of renewable energy sources and diversification of energy supply) and has the executive agency responsible for implementing the programme had a positive impact on programme management? (No 7/2008) • Has ISPA (the instrument for preparing for EU accession, one of the instruments supporting candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe in preparing for the programme for 2000-2006) been properly prepared and coherent? Have ISPA projects been implemented according to the plan and contributed to compliance by beneficiary countries with the EU environmental directives and improving the trans-European transport network?
External policies • Has the Commission adequately identified the needs for rehabilitation of those affected by the tsunami and hurricane Mitch and has the assistance been given in time and effectively? (No 6/2008) • Has EU support for new neighbouring countries directly with the EU (Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine) improved their administrative capacity for border control, migration and asylum management, the fight against organised crime and justice and good governance after enlargement in 2004 and 2007.
What were the reasons for insufficient results and to what extent did the Commission pursue the learning process in order to use the knowledge acquired for further support in this field? (No 9/2008) • Has EC aid for the development of health services in sub-Saharan Africa (under the EC commitments to reduce poverty and achieve the Millennium Development Goals) been effective?
Were the financial and human resources allocated to the healthcare sector in line with the EC's political commitments, has the Commission been able to implement this assistance more quickly and how effectively has the Commission implemented the various support instruments for the healthcare sector?
(No 10/2008) Revenue, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies • Has a binding tariff information system aimed at promoting uniform application of customs policy and ensuring proper collection of customs duties been applied effectively (rightly and lawfully)? (No 2/2008) • Do EU regulatory agencies have the right to implement the EU's most important administrative and financial reforms in order to move towards performance-oriented management?
Have the agencies properly planned their activities, set up reliable tools for monitoring their activities and informed them accordingly, and carried out reliable assessments of their results? (No 5/2008) 24
25 SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLICED IN 20086 No 1/2008 No 2/2008 No 3/2008 No 5/2008 No 6/2008 No 7/2008 No 8/2008 No 11/2008 No 12/2008 Procedure for the examination and evaluation of large investment projects in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods (OJ C 81, 1.4.2008) Binding tariff information (WIT) (OJ C 103, 24.4.2008) European Union Solidarity Fund: How fast, efficient and flexible does it work?
(OJ C 185, 22.7.2008) How do Union agencies achieve results? European Commission assistance for reconstruction after the tsunami and hurricane Mitch Intelligent Energy Programme in Europe (2003-2006) Is cross compliance effective?
The effectiveness of EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice EC development assistance to health services in sub-Saharan Africa Manage the European Union support measures for storage of cereals in public storages Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession (ISPA), 2000-2006 6 These special reports are available on the Court's website or are available in electronic form in EU Bookshop.
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2008 The Court also contributes to improving the EU's financial management by issuing opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the procedure for adopting financial rules7 or may be issued at the request of one of the other Community institutions8.
In addition, the Court may present own-initiative opinions.
The Court's opinions may concern certain areas of EU expenditure, such as the revision of the Financial Regulation of the European Aviation Safety Agency (No 1/2008) or issues relating to EU revenue, such as the amendment of the Regulation on the system of the Communities' own resources (No 2/2008).
Opinions shall be based on the Court's expertise in the financial management of the EU, acquired over the years during the audit, and in some cases relate to certain audits or opinions.
For example, in its opinion on the new Financial Regulation of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor), the Court refers to its annual report for the financial year 2006, which has already highlighted the high risks associated with the legality and regularity of the audit aid payments.
26 7 Article 279 of the EC Treaty.
8 Article 248 (4) of the EC Treaty.
27 OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 20089 Opinion No 1/2008 Opinion No 3/2008 Opinion No 4/2008 Opinion No 5/2008 on the Proposal for a decision of the Governing Board of the European Aviation Safety Agency amending the Agency's financial rules on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000 implementing Decision 2000/597/EC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources (OJ L 335, 30.12.2006, p. 1).
Persecution and Effectiveness Public control plays a key role in promoting accountability and contributes to public debate.
Audit activities shall be transferred to addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, in order to determine whether their taxpayers' money is spent properly and appropriately.
The Court's audits are a direct source of information for decision-makers of the institutions concerned in a European context, notably for Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the conclusions of the checks.
Although the Court's audit activities have the greatest impact on published reports, they already have some impact throughout the audit itself.
In its replies, the audited entity often takes into account the problems identified by the Court and presents the steps it intends to take to resolve them.
Following the completion of the audit work and the publication of the report, the audit results shall be evaluated and used by Parliament and the Council to carry out their policy tasks related to monitoring the use of budgetary resources.
As part of the annual discharge procedure, the Court's reports form the basis for the Council's recommendation and Parliament's decision.
29 Examples of this can be found in the discharge procedure for the implementation of the 2007 budget, where the European Parliament calls on the Commission and the Member States to make efforts to simplify and further clarify the rules in order to reduce the risk of errors, improve controls and reduce costs.
This applies to both shared management areas and expenditure on agriculture and cohesion policy, as well as direct management areas such as expenditure on research, culture and education.
Special reports shall also be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, as they are published during the year, the presentation of special reports and the discussion on them were usually held at Parliament and Council meetings at an earlier stage.
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by their involvement in the relevant media, which will increase attention and inspire public debate.
Overall, the media report for the Court's annual report is quite extensive, but the press has also followed some special reports with interest.
One example is the special report on cross compliance (No 8/2008), which was published at the time of the adoption of the Health Check of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
Due to the importance of cross compliance and its key role within the CAP, as well as due to the date of publication, the report found a wide echo in various media: television, newspapers, specialist press, Internet publications (press, farmers' associations, MIP websites, Internet blogs, etc.).
The report has also been widely discussed in the European Parliament and almost all the recommendations of the Court have been taken into account in the draft discharge report.
For more information on the follow-up to the Court's earlier observations, see the relevant chapters of the Court's annual report.
The most frequently reported by the Court in its last annual report is that, despite the actions taken, the shortcomings identified in the previous year have only been partially resolved.
The Court's objective is to examine more and more the long-term effects of its work as well as the opinion.
An example of this is that the Court uses the Commission's database together with follow-up to the audit recommendations as a basis for assessing the impact of its audits.
On the basis of this assessment, separate detailed studies leading to further findings and recommendations may be carried out.
They may be taken into account in a special report on the field concerned or in a monitoring report and the impact of recommendations on financial management.
In its opinion No 2/2004, the Court considered that it was up to the political authorities to decide on the level of risk that they are willing to accept when approving EU expenditure systems.
The Court proposed that Parliament and the Council agree on an appropriate balance between the costs and the benefits of control, in other words the acceptable residual risk of errors in expenditure.
The costs of controls should be proportionate to the monetary and political benefits they bring.
Since the publication of this opinion, both the European Parliament and the Council have expressed their willingness in their resolutions on discharge to take further action on this issue and to share an understanding of the acceptable level of risk.
At the end of 2008, the Commission issued a Communication entitled "Towards a common understanding of the concept of tolerated risk of error'.
The Court welcomed this Communication and forwarded to the Commission an answer indicating certain limitations and presenting the main aspects to be taken into account in future follow-up.
In its Communication, the Commission notes that any decision on an acceptable risk of error should be based, inter alia, on the possibility of further simplification.
The Court also stresses the importance and benefits of further simplification and the potential impact on the reduction of errors or irregularities.
The concept of error risk that can be addressed must be clearly separated from the concept of materiality threshold defined and applied by the Court, which falls within the competence of an external auditor10.
The Court considers that an analysis of the costs and benefits of expenditure programmes could provide information not only on the acceptable risks but also on the review of the regulatory framework and the governance structure of the programmes concerned.
In this context, an important issue may not concern whether there is an acceptable risk of error, but whether the risk of error is sufficiently high that the system or programme should be abolished/established or substantially amended.
In drawing up expenditure and revenue schemes or programmes, particular attention should also be paid to the concept of acceptable risks.
It would be useful to provide sufficient information on the risks associated with spending programmes at the time of their adoption and on the costs of planned checks to reduce this risk to an acceptable level.
In this way decisions would be made in an informed manner and with clear consideration of the risks and costs involved.
The budgetary reform process may be an opportunity to reflect on how the Court suggested this in response to the Commission communication "Budget" and "Recast Europe"11.
31 10 The concept of "reliability" is defined in the international principle of control of ISA 320 as follows: "Information" is essential if their omission or misrepresentation may affect the economic decisions of the addressees of the financial statements taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The importance depends on the size of the position or error resulting from the particular circumstances of omission or misrepresentation.
Therefore, importance is rather a threshold or a limit, rather than a basic quality requirement, which must have information to be useful. in 11 See the European Court of Auditors' response to the Commission's communication "Budgetary reform," a change in Europe in April 2008.
THE COURT'S ACTIVITIES IN 2008 AND DANACH The Court presents its future audit work annually in the work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and available to the public on the Court's website.
In 2008, the number of special reports and opinions was similar to the number in previous years.
Results (number) 2008 Opinions 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 12 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 23 20 23 29 28 2 11 8 9
CONTROL STRATEGY The audit strategy is based on the Court's strategic objectives.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Professionalism Product target group Development and growth Audit methods, adequate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable standards for the control of EU funds, cooperation with the EU-ORK, effective control framework for the development of an integrated system of education and development in the field of education and development.
The objective of the Court's audits and reports is to contribute to improving EU financial management and protecting the EU's financial interests for EU citizens.
The following key aspects are taken into account in the formulation of the strategy, which is relevant for the Court's activities: EFFECTIVENESS Report Report ReportReportThe audit work planIn 2008 the Court drew up a audit strategy for 2009-2012.
A summary of this document is available on the Court's website.
The Court's strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of controls and improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These objectives will be essential for the Court's work programmes during this period and for its efforts to continuously improve.
The Court seeks to maximise the overall impact of audits over a given period by selecting and drawing up checks focused on risk issues and most relevant to the Court's addressees; • it continues to present conclusions from the audit and useful proposals to improve whether these proposals are being implemented; • it carries out a wider spectrum of controls and presents new types of control products that complement the current annual and special reports; • it develops more specific reports that are close and more user-friendly; • it maintains relations with the main addressees, including the relevant parliamentary committees, the media and the general public; during this period it seeks to improve efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These include: • better management; • effective and dynamic human resources policy; • rationalisation of control tasks; • improvement of IT tools; • improvement of expertise; • strengthening relations with audited entities34.
As in previous years, the 2009 work programme includes the preparation of annual audit reports carried out by the Court in accordance with the Treaty and other EU legislation.
In 2009, the Court identified a number of audit issues that concern policy development and EU financial management issues.
As regards the development of EU policies, the following topics have been selected: • growth and employment; • climate change and sustainable development; • Europe as a global partner; • better regulation.
In addition, in the area of EU financial management, the Court pays particular attention to the following issues: • the completion of expenditure programmes for 2000-2006, in particular in the field of structural funds; • the accountability and reform of the EU; • the progress made in implementing the Commission action plan for an integrated internal control framework, taking into account the concept of acceptable risks; • management and control activities at Member State level.
The Court's objective is to address these issues from 2009 in the framework of annual reports, special reports and some new types of reports (see below).
The Court intends to publish a number of special reports and related new reports, which will be drawn up on the basis of the audit tasks it has chosen.
The planning and implementation of the selected control tasks and reporting on them usually last longer than one year.
Therefore, most of the reports published in a given year are based on the audit work launched in previous years.
Box 5 contains selected audit tasks which have been completed or completed and whose results will be published in the special reports in 2009 or early 2010.
35 12 A more complete and detailed review of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2009 work programme, available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
Monitoring recommendations is an important tool for the Court to actively contribute to improving financial management.
The report will analyse the extent to which our recommendations have been followed and assess the effectiveness of the actions taken, where appropriate.
It is expected to be published around the same time as the annual report, in another new type of report that the Court intends to present, will be a report on high-risk areas related to EU financial management.
The report is addressed to the new Commission, which will start work at the end of the year and is intended to serve as guidance.
In 2006, the Court carried out a self-assessment of its strengths and weaknesses.
An action plan was then drawn up to address shortcomings.
The Action Plan included a number of actions in which the Court defined its guidelines, tasks, strategic objectives and strategic planning; • developed internal performance indicators that will be implemented gradually (see section below); • adopted an internal communication strategy that is already being implemented and opened up new channels for better dissemination of information within the institutions; • taken a number of actions to improve the quality of its reports, e.g. by introducing a new graphical scheme to improve the legibility and external evaluation; • adopted a strategy for progressive implementation in order to improve the Court's relations with the addressees, the press and the general public.
In 2009, as part of its efforts to improve, the Court will seek to take into account the observations and recommendations contained in the international peer review report on the European Court of Auditors, published in December 2008, which is an important step in the ongoing reform process of the Court.
The expert assessment of colleagues (peer review) was carried out by representatives of the national control bodies of Canada, Norway, Austria and Portugal.
The experts carried out their work in 2008 and in this context contacted the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and the final report was presented at the end of 2008.
The purpose of the peer review procedure was to assess the concept and functioning of the control framework established by the Court.
The evaluation covered the following areas: • planning and auditing procedures for auditing financial statements and performance checks; • audit reports; • services supporting the Court in achieving its objectives.
The peer review team concluded that the structure of the audit framework established by the Court is in line with international control rules and good practice for the highest audit authorities.
In addition, experts concluded that: • the Court carries out its activities in an independent and objective manner; • the Court's audit reports are based on sufficient and adequate audit evidence, in accordance with international control rules; • the parties concerned have high confidence in the Court's reports and generally consider them to be fair, objective and objective.
The Court welcomes the constructive comments and recommendations from colleges which point to ways of further strengthening its role as the highest audit authority and point to the challenges involved.
This includes, inter alia, the need to: • develop a culture that focuses on the Court's uniform approach as a review body; • strengthen actions to ensure quality and quality control with a view to coherent interpretation and application of its strategies and control methods; • develop risk-based control strategies in order to make the best use of resources to meet the different needs of the addressees.
The peer review report acknowledges that most of the recommendations have already been envisaged in the pre-trial action plan.
The Court intends to incorporate the other recommendations in its audit strategy for 2009-2012 following exchanges with employees and addressees and will make every effort to implement them during that period.
EUROPEAN COURT OF SUPERVISOR INTERNATIONAL PER REVIEW OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITOR 38
IN 2008 the Court decided to introduce a system of key performance indicators (CL) for its audit and non-audit activities in order to measure the results of the Court's strategic objectives and the objectives set out in the annual work programme.
The aim of the CLI is to strengthen internal and external responsibility and increase productivity and quality of work.
In order to inform management of how effectively the Court as an institution carries out its activities; • to support the decision-making process by drawing the institutions' attention to efficiency issues and promoting improvement; • to provide stakeholders with information on the relevant issues related to the Court's performance.
They aim to provide information on the functioning of the Court as an undertaking and become an integral part of the Court's management system.
The quantity and quality of the audit work can also be improved by considering the impact of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management.
The four key performance indicators (1 to 4) measure the impact of the Court's work.
They will be developed to include them in the Court's annual work programme for 2010.
In 2008, the Court carried out a test assessment of the results on the basis of ZLI 5 and 6.
In 2008, the Court adopted 79% of the proposed number of reports.
The annual report and most of the special annual reports were adopted as planned.
Of the 20 planned special reports, only twelve were adopted.
The remaining eight special reports were still in the drafting phase until 31 December 2008.
In 2008, the Court adopted 73% of its reports on time.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted on time and further efforts are needed to improve the timely adoption of the special reports.
ZLI 7, which measures the number of main control messages developed in accordance with the timetable, will provide useful information on results and will be developed in 2009.
CLI (8) covers aspects relating to the financial management of the Court.
The two CLI (9 and 10) aim to improve employee satisfaction and optimise the use of vocational training as a tool for the ongoing updating of knowledge on the latest testing methods and techniques.
Central indicators of the Court's statement of assurance Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the main addressees of Court's reports Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the audited entity Evaluation of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a team of external experts Percentage of the audit recommendations which: (a) are accepted by the audited body (b) are implemented by the audited entity within x years Number of reports accepted in relation to the number of reports planned Number of reports accepted in time Percentage of audit reports External report on the Court's financial management: (a) Auditor's opinion (b) Decision of the discharge authority Level of satisfaction of the Court's staff Average number of training days per person 40 ZLI 1 ZLI 3 ZLI 5 ZLI 6 ZLI 8 ZLI 9 ZLI 10
The EC Treaty requires the EC to carry out an audit with the highest audit authorities of the Member States (ORKB) and to add to the Amsterdam Treaty: the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies cooperate in a trusted manner, maintaining their independence. The Nice Treaty extends this system by explicitly calling on the Court of Auditors in the 18th Declaration of the Final Act to establish a Committee on contacts with national audit authorities, in which all the Presidents of the ORKB and the Court meet each year to discuss matters of common interest.
In December 2008, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the EU-ORKB Contact Committee.
The main topics of the meeting were the reform of the EU budget and the revised Lisbon Strategy for 2008-2011.
The Contact Committee aims to strengthen cooperation between its members in order to improve external control and accountability in the EU.
Over the years, the role of the Contact Committee has developed in parallel with European integration.
In addition to facilitating the exchange of information between the OPCW and the ERC, this team has made significant progress in the effective cooperation between the different control bodies.
At its 2007 Helsinki meeting, the Contact Committee recognised the need to address emerging or new issues in due course and agreed to establish a permanent agenda item to address such current issues.
Therefore, at its meeting in 2008, the Contact Committee discussed the economic and financial crisis and agreed to organise workshops on the role of the EU-ORKB in the context of the crisis.
A network was subsequently set up to promote cooperation on controls related to the Lisbon Strategy and EU crisis management activities.
The Court took part in meetings of the ORKB of candidate and candidate countries (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro).
These meetings were held at the same time as the liaison officers' meetings in May and October.
In addition, the delegation of the Court participated in workshops organised by the network in Ankara (Turkey) on 8 and 9 July in order to examine/assess the internal control systems of public finances.
Throughout 2008 the Court has actively participated in various working groups set up by the Contact Committee.
The working group on common control standards in 2008 aimed at developing common control standards adapted to the EU environment and comparable control standards based on internationally recognised control principles, held four meetings chaired by the Court in 2008.
With effect from December 2008, the Court has taken over the (mobile) Presidency of the Working Party on Non-tax VAT and the Network of Agricultural Experts has resumed its activities under the leadership of one of the members of the Court.
The Court continued its active participation and participation in improving international audit rules and procedures through membership of European and international organisations of public financial control bodies, including EUROSAI and INTOSAI.
The delegation of the Court participated in the VII Congress of EUROSAI, which took place on 2-5 June in Krakow (Poland).
Among the main topics of the discussion were the introduction of quality management systems based on assessment, the review of social programmes in the field of education and professional integration of people with disabilities.
The President of the Court has contributed to the role of management in the creation of a quality management system in the field of audit.
Within EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environment Working Group and the IT Working Group and participates in the EUROSAI Education Committee.
It also participates in the work of the working group set up at the 7th EUROSAI Congress to develop best practice guidelines to achieve quality within the ORB.
In addition, the Court is a member of the EUROSAI Task Force on the control of civil protection assistance. 42
The European Court of Auditors, together with the highest audit authority of the Slovak Republic, was appointed as auditor for the period 2009-2011 for the Congress of EUROSAI.
Since the Court became a full member of INTOSAI in 2004, it has actively participated in the work of the Accounting Audit Guidelines Sub-Committee (FAS), the Legal Standards Review Sub-Committee (CAS) and the Economic Control Sub-Committee (PAS).
The Court has contributed to the subcommittee on promoting best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on Liability and Control of Civil Protection Assistance (INTOSAI Task Force on tsunami).
The first meeting of this working group was organised by the Court as host between 30 June and 2 July 2008.
This meeting discussed and adopted the draft work programme for the period 2008-2010.
The main objective is to develop guidelines on accountability and control in this area, with all stakeholders being reached through the competent standardisation bodies.
In addition to the coordination function, the Court has assumed responsibility for a number of tasks, two of which have been carried out in cooperation with the Norwegian Court of Auditors.
The Presidency of this working group also requires the Court to be represented at INTOSAI Bureau meetings 43.
Among the 857 staff (officials, temporary and contract staff, but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) who were active in the service as at 31 December 2008, 501 were employed as reviewers and assistants for examinations, 163 translators and 173 as auxiliary staff and 20 in the services of the President.
They have a broad academic and professional context and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's findings.
As regards the human resources sector, the Court identified the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's employees as the main performance indicator (CL 9).
To this end, a study was carried out with satisfaction aimed at providing information on this subject and supporting the decision-making process in this area.
WOMEN 54 % 46% 122001 122008 51% 49%
The following graph shows the participation of women and men in the breakdown of responsibilities as at 31 December 2008.
14 of the 59 directors and heads of departments (24%) are women, which means a small increase in women's participation since 2007.
Assistant secretaries (AST-Niveau) auditors (AD-Niveau) Directors and Directors of Unit (AST-Niveau) 45 32 % 68% 2007 2008 COBIETY 33 % 67 % 64 % 36 % 63 % 37% COBIETY 77 % 23% 76% 24%
PROFIL ALTERS The following chart shows that the Court is a young body (62% of employees are less than 44 years old).
Of the 98 staff of the Court, who are 55 years of age or older, there are 27 of the 59 directors and heads of departments, which means that significant changes will take place at the highest levels over the next five to ten years.
Age profile 46 33 2 65 148 238 101 62 3 172 20.224 25.229 30.234 35.239 40.244 45.249 50.254 55.259 60.264 JOBS The recruitment policy of the Court is in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff consists of both officials and contract staff.
In 2008, the Court had 97 employees: 48 officials, 18 temporary staff and 31 contract staff.
Recruitment depends on the availability of reserve lists from EPSO competitions.
In the absence of suitable candidates, the Court was unable to recruit as many new workers as was planned, so at the end of 2008 the total number of job vacancies (69) was higher than at the end of 2007.
However, it should be noted that a significant number of recruitments took place at the end of the year and that these workers should start working in the first quarter of 2009.
The Court is currently working to shorten the time limits for recruitment procedures.
Translation is an important administrative task that enables the Court to achieve its communication objectives and to fulfil its legal obligation to publish in 22 languages.
In 2008, the volume of translations increased by 17%, mainly due to the adoption of more special reports.
The vast majority of translations are made internally and during peak periods when normal translation capacity is exceeded, translation orders are given to the Translation Centre (CTOU) or external translation agencies.
In addition, translators shall participate in examinations visits and support auditors before, during and after examination visits, including at the subsequent stages of drawing up test reports.
Translators provide constant assistance in updating intranet content and website in English and French.
They also support INTOSAI working groups and meet other specific needs related to the Court's activities.
The Directorate for Translation of the Court actively participates in the work of the Interinstitutional Committee for Interpretation and Interpretation (CITI), is a member of international committees and participates in international conferences related to the development of electronic translation and documentation tools.
CONTROL During the Court's audit, auditors must travel to Member States and other countries benefiting from EU funds in order to obtain appropriate evidence.
These visits normally apply to central and local authorities involved in the approval, management and payment of EU funds and to final beneficiaries.
The teams of controllers usually consist of two to three controllers, and the length of the examination trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of examination and the distance.
In the EU, inspections are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities of the Member State which provide useful logistical and practical support 47.
In 2008, control travel costs amounted to EUR 3.29 million.
This extensive investment is essential to ensure sufficient coverage of all levels and location of the management of EU funds.
The table below shows the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in EU Member States and outside the Union in 2008.
50 40 30 20 10 0 5 4 3 2 1 0 Total: 283 CONTROL TRAVELS IN THE MEMBER STATES IN 2008 48 48 35 34 21 20 17 13 11 10 9 8 55 33 33 33 33 33 33333222 1 CONTROL TRAVELS IN THE MEMBER STATES IN 2008 Total: 42 Turkey Switzerland Malawi South Africa Tanzania Rwanda Peru Norway Kenya Bangladesh Angola Zambia Tunisia Sudan Senegal Autonomous Territories Mauritania Kosovo Jordan, Armenia Egypt Burkina Faso France Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium United Kingdom Poland Italy Portugal Sweden Greece Ireland Austria Hungary Estonia Slovenia Slovakia Romania Malta Latvia Finland Cyprus Lithuania Denmark Czech Republic Bulgaria Luxembourg
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION The profession of controller requires continuous training.
In 2008, the Court's staff averaged 10 days of vocational training.
The number of specialised trainings increased significantly compared to 2007.
In 2008, the Court strengthened its support for the participation of its staff in continuous programmes concerning the acquisition or maintenance of professional qualifications and diplomas in the field of external audit, internal audit and IT audit.
Language courses in 2008 accounted for 48% of the total number of training days (compared with 52% in 2007).
In 2008, the auditors completed seven days of vocational training without taking into account language courses.
Based on the long-term strategic objective: further development and growth in 2008-2011 and the main training plan for 2008-2011, as well as the training paths adopted in 2008, the vocational training department improved the content of training activities and developed new training courses in line with the priorities set by the Court.
Furthermore, cooperation with other interinstitutional institutions and bodies, such as the European Administrative School, has been successfully continued.
Box 6 presents a portrait of the employees of selected departments or departments within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work done, the employees involved in the work and their background and professional experience. 49
50 RAM 6 on TEAM, which is responsible for carrying out the audit on the theme "Ecological Energy" in 2008, the Court's report on the Intelligent Energy programme 2003-2006 (Special Report No 7/2008) showed how the aid scheme was working to improve the use of energy-efficient technologies.
It concerned established procedures for allocating funds to individual projects, monitoring and evaluation procedures, administrative costs and the impact of setting up an executive agency.
The study team worked closely with the rapporteur member, David Bostock.
The head of the control department was Hendrik Fehr, head of the Peggy Vercauteren team.
The band included Oliver Müller, Peter Zsapka, Zoltán Giday and Carl-Christian Buhr, and Gerhard Ross, Thomas af Hällström and Peter Welch from David Bostock's office also played an important role.
The audit included a study aimed at obtaining information from a broad group of participants.
Various cost accounting techniques were used to supplement and supplement the information available to the Commission.
The audit showed that the programme was managed in accordance with the Commission's usual approaches and guidelines.
However, the expenditure model was not targeted and monitoring and evaluation did not allow an assessment of the overall quality of the programme.
During the duration of the programme, relatively high administrative costs (for the Commission, the Agency and participants) fell approximately equal to the amount paid to participants during the same period.
The creation of an executive agency has improved the satisfaction of the participants in the programme.
From left to right: Hendrik Fehr, Director (25 years at court), David Bostock, Member of the Court (7 years at court), Zoltán Giday, Financial Audit Board (3 years at court), Peggy Vercauteren, Director of Financial Audit (5 years at court), Oliver Müller, Financial Audit Board (6 years at court), Peter Welch, Head of Cabinet (13 years at court), Gerhard Ross, Head of Department (11 years at court), Thomas af Hällström, Financial Audit Board (8 years at court).
THE FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE Court'S Budget for 2009 amounts to around 0.16% of the EU general budget or 2,4% of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies.
Compared to 2008, there was an increase of 41 %, mainly due to the Court's financial resources for construction work, as, after further increase in employment, workers will be accommodated in the second expansion building (building K3), which will be completed in 2013.
Negotiations were launched with the budgetary authorities on financing rules in February 2008.
Therefore, the construction project, the total cost of which is estimated at EUR 79 million, is financed from four successive annual budgets.
In October 2008, the budgetary authority approved the EUR 55 million tranche for the 2009 budget.
In 2009, some 52% of the total budget comes from human resources.
2007 2008 BUDGET Members of institutions Officials and temporary staff Other staff and external services Mission expenses Other expenditure on members and staff of institutions Title 1 Total Buildings Data processing and telecommunications Equipment and furniture: purchase, hire and maintenance Current operating expenditure Meetings and conferences Information and publications Title 2 Total Court of Auditors 11 270 82 583 4 014 3 000 2 056 102 923 8 126 5 518 1 396 435 872 1 810 18 157 110 519 2009 (in EUR 1000) 11 718 92 086 497 3 290 2 684 114 275 275 62 891 6 269 981 439 868 1 921 73 369 187 12 061 88 712 4 248 3 212 2 286 12 110 5 879 1 147 121 080 132 769 876 1 813 22 250
Overall, the aim is to assess the performance of individual services in implementing strategies, programmes and actions to continuously improve.
In 2008, the Court's Internal Audit Department focused on auditing accounting (accounting records checks), ex ante verification, recruitment procedures, staff recruitment assistance and allowances, maintenance costs of buildings, expenditure on services and services, implementation of the IT strategy and review of the IT control framework.
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the internal auditor in 2008 were adopted by the evaluation bodies and incorporated into the corrective action plans.
The Internal Audit Committee met six times in 2008 and focused on monitoring the recommendations of the Internal Auditor.
Other topics include: the Committee's 2007 activity report and the Court's 2007 discharge authority report on the internal auditor function.
The Internal Audit Committee held two meetings with the Court's independent auditor to discuss the state of control for the financial year 2007.
In its opinion on the audit carried out in 2007 (OJ C 318, 12.12.2008), the Court's independent auditor presented the following conclusions: As regards the annual accounts, as we believe, the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2007 and the results and cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors. As regards the use of resources and control procedures: As regards financial operations and control procedures: For all relevant matters and taking into account the above-mentioned evaluation criteria, we have no reason to conclude that: (a) the measures granted to the Court have not been used for the purposes set out; and (b) the control procedures put in place do not provide the necessary assurance that financial operations have been carried out in accordance with applicable rules and regulations.
52
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 QJ-AA-09-001-DE-C
ISSN 1684-0666 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2009
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2010 ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518 © European Union, 2010 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
4 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT 4 Welcome to the 2009 annual report on the activities of the European Court of Auditors.
The purpose of this report is to provide readers with an overview of the main results and progress achieved by the Court this year and to inform them of significant changes in the control and internal organisation environment.
2009 was an important year for the EU in which the election of the new European Parliament took place, the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and the start of the process of selecting the new European Commission.
The new Treaty reaffirms the role and mission of the Court and its status as EU institutions and introduces changes in the management and control of EU funds, strengthening the role of the European Parliament and stressing the responsibility of the Member States for the implementation of the budget.
The Court expects these changes to provide good opportunities to improve the EU's financial management.
The section "The Court's Study" summarises our opinion on the risks and challenges facing the new Commission.
Improving the quality of EU spending plays an important role.
This year, we have made significant progress in implementing our control strategy for 2009-2012 and in achieving our goals of increasing the impact of our work and making better use of our resources.
An important step was our decision to propose to the Council of the European Union for the approval of the new Rules of Procedure aimed at improving our procedures for the adoption of reports and opinions.
Moreover, the number of Court reports increased from 42 in 2008 to 57 in 2009.
I am also pleased to say that our main product, the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, has once again been welcomed by our main institutional addressees, who have agreed with many of our recommendations.
In 2009, the Court continued its active cooperation with the Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (ORKBs) to develop common approaches to the control of EU funds and to consider how ORKB can help governments deal with the financial and economic crisis.
The Court's results depend on the competence and motivation of 880 employees.
Satisfaction is a key factor in the success of the Court and is set out in this report for the first time.
I would like to thank the Court's staff for their tirelessness and commitment to work, so that the Court can carry out its tasks.
6 6 ORDER, REMUNERATION, VALUE AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the control of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU controller, it contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and, at the same time, it is an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
Continuity, INTEGRATION AND SECURITY Independence, fairness and impartiality for institutions whose members and employees provide their addressees with adequate audit results, all forms of interference through instructions or external pressures being rejected PROFESSIONALITY Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of their work EXCELENCE AND EFFICIENCES Preparation of adequate and timely high quality reports based on reliable findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of its addressees and important and targeted statements, including recognition of individual values, supporting further development of specific skills and results Active participation in the further development of public control at EU and worldwide level by promoting a team spirit through effective communication, enhancing the effectiveness of all aspects of its work in the effective management of the EU budget, and contributing to increasing accountability in the management of EU financial resources.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 7 PROFESSIONALITY OF THE OUTPUT RESTRUCTURING OF ADDITIONAL EMPLOYMENT AND GROWTH COMPLIED CONTROL METHODS, An adequate audit strategy, further development of public audit practice, the development of common audit standards and comparable control criteria for EU funds, cooperation with EU-ORKB, an effective framework for Community control on the selection of relevant control topics, proximity of time, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of performance control, increased impact of reports on strengthening relations with audited entities in order to better understand the control process and wider acceptance of audit results in order to exploit experience from peer review in order to strengthen and further develop the organisation, methods, procedures and results and achieve maximum efficiency of contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as a budgetary and discharge authority; modernisation of infrastructure Effective communication with EU citizens.
8 THE COURT'S ROLE AND WORK 8 THE COURT'S POSITION IS THE EU BUDGET The budget of the European Union in 2010 is around EUR 123 billion, representing around 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of the 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States EU measures play an important role in financing public actions and the overall budget is significant compared to the GNI of several Member States.
The revenue of the European Union consists primarily of contributions from Member States from their gross national income (GNI 76%), customs duties and agricultural duties (so-called traditional own resources 12%) and VAT-based contributions (VAT 11%) collected by Member States.
BOX 1 FOR WHAT DOES THE EU COMPLETE ITS WITNESS?
The EU budget is financed by Member States' financial contributions (mainly based on national GNI), agricultural duties and duties and VAT contributions.
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than the national budget, partly because of different responsibilities.
European Union citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1.1% Conservation and management of natural resources (mainly agriculture) 47.3% The largest expenditure area in the EU includes agriculture and rural development in the first place in the form of payments to farmers, which accounts for almost half of the budget expenditure.
The next major part is cohesion measures: regional and social development, which co-financed a wide range of projects, ranging from road construction projects in Latvia to unemployment training in the Netherlands.
This area accounts for about one third of the budget expenditure.
The European Union as a global body for EU expenditure Source: European Union general budget for the financial year 2010. Administration 6.4% Sustainable growth (mainly cohesion) 38.8%
The budget shall be established annually by the Council on the basis of the seven-year financial framework, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and by the European Parliament directly elected.
The European Commission shall draw up the budget and be responsible for its implementation.
A significant part of the budget, in particular as regards agricultural and cohesion expenditure under the budget, shall be implemented in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments on the basis of applications from the beneficiaries themselves, both farmers and project managers across the Union9.
10 WHEN DOES THE COURT HAVE A ROLE?
Democratic society needs reliable and publicly available information that will form the basis for discussion and decision-making, both in order to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
The European Court of Auditors shall act as an external EU auditor who shall ensure that EU funds have been correctly booked and spent in accordance with the relevant legal provisions and with due regard to the requirement to make optimal use of the funds, regardless of where they are used.
The Court's audit work is used by the Commission, Parliament and Council and Member States to improve EU financial management.
In addition to the Court's activities, many national audit bodies examine EU funds, provided that they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
OVERVIEW OF THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU BUDGET Level of the Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing bodies European Court of Auditors National level of internal control
2. Are financial transactions in all material respects compatible with the relevant legal framework and other regulatory frameworks?
3. Is financial management in line with the principles of sound financial management, i.e. have the funds been kept to a minimum (savings), have the results been achieved with the lowest possible use of resources (efficiency) and have the intended objectives (efficiency) been achieved?
The Court shall publish the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: the annual accounts of the results of the financial control in the form of a statement of assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and the activities carried out under the European Development Fund3.
Special annual reports on the results of audits of the financial statements of the agencies and of the decentralised bodies of the Union.
11 1 Further information on the Court's audit methods can be found on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 According to the TFEU, the Court is required to issue such a statement or opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual statement of assurance is widely known under the French acronym DAS.
12 HOW DOES THE COURT TEST?
The Court carries out an audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with international control rules that apply both to the public and private sectors.
However, the existing international control rules do not include the Court's conformity check.
The Court, in cooperation with the national control bodies, is actively involved in developing international control rules which are supported by standards setting organisations (INTOSAI, IFAC) 4.
In order to ensure compliance of payments with the legal framework and other regulatory frameworks, the Court is based on the results of the analysis of supervisory and control systems to prevent and detect and correct errors in legality and regularity as well as on a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Other sources, such as statements by the management of the bodies audited in the form of annual activity reports of the Directors-General of the Commission and the work of other auditors, shall also be used in support of the Court's conclusions.
In the case of performance control, the Court uses a number of control methods to assess management and monitoring systems and to assess performance data on the basis of legislative criteria and the principles of sound financial management.
When selecting topics for performance control, the Court seeks to identify areas of control where the greatest impact can be expected in the form of exposed potential for improvement in terms of savings, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending.
3 The European Development Fund (EDF) is based on both international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and Council Decisions on the association of overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see external relations, development and enlargement) and partly through delegations in beneficiary countries.
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Institutions Audit Institutions) W. IFAC (International Federation of Accountants).
BOX 2 does not have sufficient resources to examine in detail all operations related to the EU budget.
Therefore, it uses statistical sampling techniques to present the results representative of the population concerned.
The Court monitors these operations up to the final beneficiary of the grant, such as the project promoter in Italy.
The Court then examined on the spot on several occasions whether the proposal was compatible with the reality.
The representative sample allows the extrapolation of results from a given population, i.e. from a specific area of revenue or expenditure, and provides the basis for an opinion on the general review together with the information resulting from the evaluation of management and control systems and other sources.
SELECTION OF A TEST FOR A FUTURE SELECTION OF THE SELECTION OF THE FUTURE SELECTION OF THE SELECTION OF THE SELECTION OF THE SELECTION OF THE SELECTION OF A representative sample Population of payments in the area of consistency Payment to the project promoter in Italy
14 TASKS AND TASKS5 14 STRUCTURAL STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body comprising 27 members, each of which consists of one member per Member State.Members are appointed by the Council for a six-year term after consulting the European Parliament.
Members shall elect a President from among themselves for a period of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
The five audit groups to which individual members of the Court are assigned shall prepare reports and opinions for adoption by the Court.
In line with the organisational chart, there are four thematic control groups covering different budgetary areas as well as another control group dealing with horizontal issues.
In addition, a management committee composed of members of the Court shall be responsible for preparing the administrative decisions of the Court.
At the end of 2009, the Court submitted to the Council a proposal to amend its Rules of Procedure in order to allow the adoption of certain categories of Court opinions and reports instead of the entire College of Chambers.
These changes will improve and streamline the Court's decision-making process, including by reducing the time needed for the adoption of the decision.
Each Chamber has two areas of competence: the first field includes the adoption of special reports, special annual reports and opinions, the second - preparation of draft comments on annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund, as well as draft opinions to be adopted by the College.
As in the case of the Court, decisions shall be taken by a majority of the Members of the Chamber.
Members may attend meetings of all chambers but shall have the right to vote only in the Chamber to which they have been assigned by the Court.
Of course, the entire college continues to meet to discuss and adopt the documents for which the Court is responsible, such as annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund.
The role of the Management Committee will be strengthened.
The Committee shall consist of the President of the Court holding the Presidency and of the Doyen Chambers.
The Committee shall prepare administrative matters which need to be decided by the Court as well as decisions concerning procedures, rules or strategic issues before they are submitted to the Court for approval.
The Member shall then present a report to the audit group and the Court and present it to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties after the adoption of the report.
More details can be found on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
THE COURT'S STAFF The budget for the financial year 2009 provides for 880 posts for the European Court of Auditors (at 31 December 2009).
The audit staff of the Court shall be responsible for the planning and carrying out of audits and the preparation of draft audit reports.
Auditors work in groups of different sizes: for certain specific audits, the panel shall consist of four or five auditors, while for some broader Court audits (e.g. accounting audits/compliance checks on agricultural expenditure and consistency in order to produce an annual statement of assurance) at least 20 auditors shall participate.
As a general rule, auditors must obtain evidence of checks carried out through various procedures: documentary checks in Luxembourg, visits to the European Commission and visits to Member States where revenue is generated from the EU budget and where actions financed from the EU budget are carried out.
The Court's reports and opinions must be accessible to readers throughout the Union and, during the audit work, the Court must maintain contacts with authorities and other bodies throughout the Union.
This would not be possible without the Court's interpreters who translate its reports and opinions (in almost all cases drawn up in English or French) into 22 official languages of the Union.
Depending on their needs, they also translate correspondence between the Court and other bodies and, in some cases, assist auditors in conducting audit visits in the Member States.
The Court's administrative staff shall be responsible for a number of supporting tasks in an international organisation operating in the context of the EU.
This applies to finance, accounting, budget, buildings, information technology, transport, security, etc. The Secretary-General is the Court's senior staff and is responsible for the management and management of the staff. 15
The President of Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKKsten (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) KIS KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maiem B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MolnáR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIEN. (LT) Masimo VARI (IT) w (S. ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko AntonČIC (SI) IGOČIEN. (S.S.S. WS. (S.S. WS. (S.S.S. WS) (S. WS.
The updated version is available on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu.
18 SUMMARY OF THE CONTROL REPORTS AND OPINION6 The number of special reports was higher in 2009 than in previous years, while the number of opinions decreased.
The annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Fund were adopted in accordance with the plan.
RESULTS (number) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Special reports 6 11 9 12 18 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 20 23 29 29 37 Opinions 11 8 9 5 1 Annual reports for the financial year 2008 Each year the Court examines the annual accounts and EU revenue and expenditure.
The results of this audit will be presented to the EU, Parliament and Council political bodies in the Court's annual reports.
6 This section aims at introducing, not a summary of, the Court's reports and opinions.
For more information, see the full text of the documents adopted by the Court, published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET: Six Directions • The annual accounts of the European Union provide a true and reliable picture of the financial situation and results. • As regards the legality and regularity of transactions, the overall results for 2008 reflect the progress made in financial management in recent years. • The overall progress achieved in 2008 is mainly due to better results in the largest thematic area, i.e. agriculture and natural resources.
In the field of rural development, the estimated error rate is lower than in previous years, but still significant.
For the first time, the Court does not give a negative opinion on agriculture and natural resources as a whole. • The second largest thematic area, almost a third of the budget, is still problematic as the most vulnerable budget sector.
The Court estimates that at least 11 per cent of the total amount of the refund should not have been paid. • The Court's recommendations on improving supervisory and control systems are still valid.
They should be considered as part of an ongoing process in which these actions can only be considered effective after a certain period of time. • In addition, particular attention should be paid to areas of expenditure where the Court continues to face a high level of error.
In many cases, errors are the result of excessively complex rules and regulations.
Simplification therefore remains a priority objective 19.
20 The Court's unlimited opinion on the reliability of the accounts concluded that, in all material respects, the annual accounts of the European Communities for 2008 provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Communities and the results of their operations and cash flows.
Unlimited audit opinions were issued by the Court in 2008 unlimited audit opinions on income, liabilities in all thematic areas, payments in thematic groups, and in particular on the basis of the results of this study.
Limited opinions on the control of Payments under the thematic area Agriculture and natural resources, with the exception of rural development areas, were legal and correct in all relevant respects.
Payments under the Economics and Finance Policy Group under the Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP6) were legal and regular in all relevant respects, except for expenditure on the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development covered by that Programme.
Negative audit opinions Among the thematic areas: "Coherence," "Research," "Energy," "Transport" and "External assistance," "Development" and "enlargement" and "enlargement" the Court issued negative audit opinions.
Payments in these thematic groups were largely affected by error, albeit to varying degrees.
The need to improve monitoring and control systems for thematic groups • Research, energy and transport, external assistance, development and expansion of the system of supervision and control systems for research, energy and transport, development and expansion of education and development in the field of education and development
In the case of the thematic area Agriculture and natural resources, the Court also found that supervisory and control systems are partially effective.
However, he stressed that the integrated management and control system (IACS) remained a generally effective control system.
However, improvements are needed in some areas, especially in rural development, where shortcomings have occurred.
For the policy group Economics and Finance, supervisory and control systems have been considered to be effective in two of the three areas audited.
In the third area, companies in this sector, systems have been considered to be partially effective, mainly due to shortcomings related to FP6.
In the case of the Thematic Group "Coherence', the Court found that in most cases Member States' systems to correct errors detected during national controls were at least partially effective.
The Commission, the Member States and other beneficiary countries must make further efforts to make the necessary improvements to the above-mentioned thematic groups in order to ensure adequate control of the risk of irregular expenditure.
• unlimited audit opinion if it has been demonstrated that the accounts are reliable or the underlying transactions, i.e. payments, are legal and correct in all material respects; • negative audit opinion if the level of error in the underlying transactions is material and comprehensive or not reliable; • refusal to issue an audit opinion if the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and adequate evidence to support his audit opinion, and the possible effects are both relevant and comprehensive; the limited audit opinion if the opinion cannot be delivered from a full examination, but the effects of disagreements or limitations on the scope of the audit are not so important or exhaustive that it requires a negative audit opinion or a negative audit opinion.
The following table summarises the overall assessment of supervisory and control systems in accordance with the relevant chapters of the 2008 Annual Report and gives an overview of the results of the audits of representative samples of transactions carried out by the Court.
The table sets out the main information but not all relevant details (in particular the shortcomings of the supervisory and control systems and the types of errors).
ASSESSMENT OF THE KEY ASSESSMENT SYSTEM Revenues from agriculture and natural resources: EUR 55 billion Cohesion: EUR 36.6 billion Research, energy and transport: EUR 7.5 billion External assistance, development and enlargement: EUR 6.2 billion Education and citizenship: EUR 1.7 billion Economy and finance: EUR 0.6 billion Administrative and other expenditure: EUR 8.5 billion Assessment of supervisory and control systems Inefficiently Effective scope where estimated FQ > 5 %2 % ≤ FQ 5 % < 2 % (below error rate)
As regards the EDF, the Court concluded that, in all material respects, the financial statements of the EDF for 2008 provide a true and reliable picture of the financial situation of the EDF.
As regards the legality and regularity of the transactions, the Court issued an opinion on EDF's revenue and liabilities.
The Court also concluded that EDF payments were largely affected by errors.
The Court considered EDF supervisory and control systems to be partially effective.
In addition, a further 37 special annual reports on agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union for the financial year 2008 were adopted in 2009.
The Union agencies shall carry out various tasks in different places within the Union.
Each agency shall have a specific task and shall manage its own budget.
The audits of the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the Union shall be the subject of specific annual reports, which shall be published separately.
With the exception of the European Police College, the Court has issued unlimited opinions on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for all agencies. 23
24 SPECIAL REPORTS7 The selection of performance and compliance control topics and their design are based on criteria such as the risks associated with the cost-effectiveness of certain revenues and expenditures or their compliance with rules, the volumes of expenditure, the date of the last check, the forthcoming changes in the regulatory or operational framework, as well as the political and public interest.
Since performance and compliance checks are complex and require a large number of detailed work, their full implementation usually takes more than one year from the preliminary examination to the final report.
In 2009, the Court adopted 18 special reports.
The special reports are available directly on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) and refer to their publication in the Official Journal.
As in previous years, the reports dealt with research on financial management issues in many different areas and included, inter alia, EU food aid to the most deprived persons (No 6/2009) and Commission financial management (No 5/2009).
In addition to 18 special reports in 2009, the Court examined the use of EU funds to transfer Chernobyl's location to a safe environment.
Recommendations on improving the management of EU funds by the EBRD were forwarded to the President of the Commission in a letter from the President of the Court (not published).
The special reports adopted by the Court in 2009 are presented below by thematic area.
In order to illustrate the nature of the issues in question and the conclusions drawn, a concise report was presented on each subject.
Special reports are available on the Court's website or via an electronic order form at EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH • No 3/2009 on the effectiveness of Structural Measures spending on waste water treatment during the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods • No 7/2009 on the management of the Galileo programme development and validation phase • No 8/2009 on networks of excellence and integrated projects under the Community research policy: have the objectives achieved? • No 13/2009 on the delegation of executive tasks to executive agencies for the right tool been achieved? • No 17/2009 on vocational education and training actions for women co-financed by the European Social Fund for the 25 management of the Galileo programme development and validation phase examined the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme aimed at establishing a European global satellite navigation system (GNSS) and presented the reasons for these errors.
He concluded that the development and validation phase was not properly managed.
If the reorientation of EGNOS (geographical navigation service for Europe) and Galileo is to be successful in mid-2007, the Commission must significantly improve the management of the programme.
The report contains a number of recommendations to make it easier for the Commission to carry out this task.
Finally, where the EU decides to join other major infrastructure programmes, the Commission must ensure that its appropriate management instruments are available.
EMPLOYMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES • No 6/2009 - European Union food aid to the most deprived: Assessment of objectives, measures and methods used. • No 10/2009 - Information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products. • No 11/2009 - The sustainability and management of LIFE-Nature projects by the Commission. • No 14/2009 - Have the milk and milk market management instruments achieved their main objectives?
26 Have the management instruments for the market in milk and milk products achieved their main objectives?
The Court has reviewed the functioning of the milk and milk products market since the introduction of milk quotas in 1984 and examined the Commission's approach to managing the gradual deregulation of the dairy sector, which started in 2003.
The situation at the end of 2008 is the basis of the Court's recommendations to the Commission: preventing new overproduction, monitoring the price-setting process in the food chain, deepening the reflection on the future of producers in disadvantaged areas and the impact of geographical concentration of milk production on the environment, further targeting milk production to meet the needs of the European internal market and on high value added milk products that can be exported to the world market without budget support.
CITIZENSHIP OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, FREEDOM, SECURITY AND LAW • No 2/2009 in the European Union Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective way to improve health? in the European Union Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective way to improve health?
The Court examined the European Union Public Health Action Programme 2003-2007.
The Court's audit sought to verify that the framework conditions for projects financed from the EU budget were defined in a way that effectively complements Member States' efforts to protect and improve public health.
The report shall contain detailed conclusions and recommendations on the development, implementation and management of the programme.
On the basis of its findings, the Court questions the benefits of certain elements of European public health programmes such as PHP.
The Commission and the Member States are invited to reconsider the EU's approach to public health funding.
EU AS A GENERAL PARTNER • No 1/2009. Banking activities in the Mediterranean under the MEDA programme and previous protocols on EU assistance • No 4/2009 in the management of the participation of non-state actors in EC development cooperation by the Commission • No 12/2009 on the effectiveness of Commission projects in the field of justice and home affairs for the Western Balkans • No 15/2009 on EU assistance through the United Nations: decision-making and control on assistance to Turkey on the management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission • No 14/2009 on the effectiveness of EDF assistance for regional economic integration in East Africa and West Africa on 27 The European Commission's management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey has examined the management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission.
In particular, the first period of implementation of pre-accession assistance (2002-2006) was characterised by many shortcomings which have already emerged in previous pre-accession programmes.
The objectives set by the Commission for grants were not specific enough to enable an impact assessment of the project and the Commission did not have the information necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of pre-accession assistance.
Nevertheless, the projects audited have produced the planned results and their results are likely to be sustainable.
While some substantial improvements have already been made by the Commission, the Court makes recommendations on further corrective actions.
Areas where improvements are most needed include setting strategic objectives for financial assistance, setting more realistic deadlines for achieving the objectives and monitoring the real results of projects and their results on the basis of clear objectives and relevant indicators.
28 ADMINISTRATION • No 5/2009 on the management of funds in the Commission • No 9/2009 on the efficiency and effectiveness of the European Personnel Selection Office's activities in terms of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the European Personnel Selection Office's activities The Court focused on how the European Personnel Selection Office (ESSO) managed to cope with a significant increase in the number of competitions due to the enlargement of the European Union and whether it provided timely lists of skills containing the required number of successful candidates and geographically sustainable candidates.
He concluded that EPSO successfully dealt with the increase in competitions as a result of the enlargement of the European Union.
However, the following shortcomings emerged: the staffing needs of the institutions were not reported to EPSO in due time, the selection process took too long, while selection procedures detected on average only two thirds of the expected number of candidates (listed) and management information was not always reliable or complete.
COMMENTS Another contribution by the Court to improving the EU's financial management is to issue opinions on proposals or issues relating to financial management.
These opinions are required as part of the procedure for adopting financial rules8 or may be issued at the request of one of the other institutions of the Union9.
In 2009, the Court adopted an opinion on the proposal to amend the Regulation of the Committee on Budgets of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market on the Authority's financial rules (the Financial Regulation does not apply).
8 Article 322 TFEU.
Article 287 (4) TFEU.
29 IMPLEMENTATION AND EFFECTIVENESS The Court's audit primarily serves as a direct source of information for decision-makers of the institutions concerned in the European context, particularly for the Commission, Parliament, the Council and the Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the Court's conclusions of the audit.
Although the Court's audit activities have the greatest impact on published reports and opinions, they already have some impact throughout the audit itself.
In response to the resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2007 budget (which took place mainly in 2009): in the area of agricultural expenditure, the management and control system for expenditure under the newly created European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) has been adapted to the EAGF guarantee scheme, so that the benefits of this scheme will largely apply to EAFRD expenditure (see point 5.54 of the 2004 Annual Report and point 5.57 of the 2007 Annual Report).
In the field of cohesion, the Commission is still working on a review of the rules applicable to the period 2007-2013 with a view to simplifying the reporting system and committed itself to drawing up a report at the beginning of 2010 on the actions taken in 2009 and the first impact of all actions undertaken under the action plan to strengthen the Commission's supervisory function in the management of structural actions (see points 1.53 and 6.36 (a) of the 2007 annual report).
In the field of external policy, the Commission intends to develop a specific instrument to increase support for these organisations in the management of EU funds and compliance with EU rules (see point 8.33 (a) of the 2007 annual report).
In the area of internal policy, including research, the Commission has developed a multiannual control strategy under the Sixth Framework Programme, based on detecting and correcting errors that could not be detected by means of documentary checks prior to payment.
In order to simplify the procedures of the Seventh Framework Programme, the Commission established a guarantee fund for participants which allowed a significant reduction in the number of ex ante controls and safeguard measures to be implemented (see paragraphs 7.43 (b), 10.34 and 2.42 (a) of the 2007 annual report).
Source: Report from the Commission to the European Parliament on the follow-up to discharge decisions for the financial year 2007.
Special reports shall also be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
Due to the fact that they are published during the year, the presentation of special reports and the discussion on them were usually held at Parliament and Council meetings at an earlier stage.
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by their involvement in the relevant media, paying more attention and encouraging public debate.
Overall, the media reports of the Court's annual report are quite extensive.
This was also the case in 2009, with the media focusing primarily on improving agricultural spending.
The press also followed several special reports with interest.
For example, the special report on the milk market (No 14/2009), which assessed the extent to which the management instruments for the milk and milk products market have achieved their main objectives, was the subject of intensive discussions in the Council and Parliament, as well as a broad echo in the media and in the relevant professional groups at a time when the sector faced various problems.
The Court is working on a further analysis of the impact of its activities.
In 2009, he started working on a process of systematic monitoring of his special reports in order to identify and document the progress made by the evaluation bodies in addressing the shortcomings identified and implementing the recommendations made.
This procedure will provide the Court, as well as Parliament and other interested parties with additional feedback on the impact of its activities.
31 OPINION OF THE COURT OF OPINION No 1/2010 on improving the financial management of the European Union: RISKS AND CHALLENGES In February 2010, the Court first issued an opinion on measures to reduce the level of irregular payments at EU level and improve the quality of expenditure (savings, efficiency and effectiveness).
The Court concluded that, in order to increase the progress made recently in reducing the level of irregular payments, it is necessary to simplify legislation in high risk areas and to introduce more cost-effective control systems.
Such reforms should be carried out in the context of an ongoing comprehensive review of the EU spending system.
The Court considers that improving the quality of expenditure is of great importance, which can be achieved by applying the concept of European added value in defining expenditure priorities and by addressing the problems identified by the Court in the selection, design and implementation of expenditure programmes and grant programmes.
CUSTOMS USE OF THE AREA INTERESTED IN THE HIGHEST AREA OF PRE-EXCESSIVE PAYMENT Although the overall level of irregular payments fell from the EU budget, it remains high in the thematic groups "Cohesion" and "External Assistance," "Development" and "Development," "Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development" and "Rural Development Expenditure."
Most irregularities are based on notification by beneficiaries of ineligible expenditure, notification of excessive eligible expenditure and non-compliance with payment conditions, for example as regards public procurement rules.
These are mainly due to the complexity of payment systems and conditions and to shortcomings in risk control systems at the level of final beneficiaries.
The Commission should address the specific systemic shortcomings identified by the Court in high risk areas and improve its supervision.
However, in the case of an increasing number of controls and consequently a decreasing error rate, a point has been reached where the costs of controls are no longer proportionate to the benefits obtained.
Simplification should therefore remain a priority objective.
Rules and rules to be interpreted clearly and easily may not only reduce the risk of error, but also reduce the costs of controls 31.
32 IMPROVING THE CONCEPT OF EXPENDITURE PROGRAMMES In addition to simplification, the Commission should ensure clear objectives for reviewing existing and developing new actions.
A greater sense of reality, greater transparency and accountability are often needed.
To this end, the Commission could further strengthen existing procedures for the development of future strategies, in particular ex ante evaluation and impact assessments.
Taking into account the European added value in defining expenditure priorities, the Court proposes clarifying the concept of European added value in an appropriate political declaration or EU legislation in order to give guidance to EU political bodies when setting spending priorities.
In the Court's view, the Commission should complete the review of the budget as soon as possible and take account of its results when drawing up the financial framework starting in 2014.
Improving the quality of expenditure should be of great importance to the institutions of the European Union and thus constitute the main objective of the new Commission.
33 THE COURT'S WORK PLAN FOR 201010 The Court presents its future audit work annually in the work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and publicly available on the Court's website.
The work programme shall provide stakeholders with information on new and ongoing audits and planned reports.
The Court has drawn up an audit strategy for 2009-2012 based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of controls and improving efficiency through the best use of resources.
These objectives will be essential for the Court's 2010 work programme and for its efforts to continuously improve.
The Court seeks to maximise the overall impact of audits over a given period by selecting and drawing up checks focused on risk issues and most relevant to the Court's addressees; • it continues to present conclusions from the audit and useful proposals to improve whether these proposals are being implemented; • it carries out a wider spectrum of controls and presents new types of control products that complement the current annual and special reports; • it develops more specific reports that are close and more user-friendly; • it maintains relations with the main addressees, including the relevant parliamentary committees, the media and the general public; during this period it seeks to improve efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These include: • better management; • effective and dynamic human resources policy; • rationalisation of control tasks; • improving IT tools; • improving expertise; • strengthening relations with audited entities.
33 10 A more complete and detailed review of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2010 work programme, available on its website (www.eca.europa.eu).
34 The Court has selected certain audit priorities for the 2010 work programme, including: • the multi-annual nature of a significant proportion of Community expenditure, including lump sums and recovery; • innovation and the internal market; • human capital; • sustainable energy; • the Commission's strategy to simplify the legal framework for businesses and citizens.
On 1 July 2009, Luxembourg established the cornerstone of the new building, the second building extending the European Court of Auditors.
Vítor Caldeira, President of the European Court of Auditors, Claude Wisler, Luxembourg's Minister for Construction, Patrick Gille, President of the Fund d.d.urbanisation et d.aménagement du Kirchberg wije, and Eduardo Ruiz García, Secretary-General of the Court, by means of a symbolic first spat, signaled the start of construction work.
This extension of the building complex of the European Court of Auditors, which already consists of two buildings, will allow staff to be accommodated during subsequent enlargements of the Union.
In 2009-2012, the Court will seek to broaden the scope of audit reports.
To this end, it will consult with its main external addressees in order to ensure a clear understanding of their different needs and to best meet their expectations as part of the implementation of the mandate under the Treaty.
A significant part of the resources available to the Court is intended to audit the accounts in order to draw up a statement of assurance (the so-called "Appendix').
This requires, for each financial year, the examination and control of accounts and operations within the EU general budget.
European development funds and each of the 40 European agencies and bodies are the subject of a separate statement of assurance.
Audit work shall cover the period from June of year n to June of year n+1 so that annual reports can be published in accordance with the Financial Regulation in November of year n+1.
A statement of assurance for the financial year 2009 will be drawn up and published in 2010 and at the same time a statement of assurance for the financial year 201011 will begin.
The objective of the Court's work is to present clear conclusions on the state of accounts and financial management in the various areas of the general budget, and to make appropriate and cost-effective recommendations, where possible improvements.
The Court's annual report on the general budget for the financial year 2009 will continue to be in line with the structure introduced in 2007 and taking into account the reallocation of the budget12.
The arrangements are presented under the chapters on related policy groups (thematic divisions) which broadly correspond to the headings of the new financial framework.
In addition, the Court's particular concern will be to present even clearer and coherent results and conclusions to make them clearer and clearer and easier to compare within and between thematic groups and between budgetary years.
35 11 For more information on the DAS approach, see the Court's website: www.eca.europa.eu.
12 The Court established the DAS to reflect on the various aspects of the DAS control approach and, therefore, the re-incision of the specific assessment areas is also being considered.
The Court decided in 2008 to introduce a system of key performance indicators (CL) for its audit and non-audit activities in order to measure the results in the implementation of the Court's strategic objectives and the objectives set out in the annual work programmes.
The aim of the CLI is to strengthen internal and external responsibility and to improve productivity and quality of work. HEARING EXPRESSIONS? • Inform management about how the Court as an institution is effectively implementing its activities; • supporting decision-making by focusing the institutions on efficiency issues and supporting improvements; • providing stakeholders with information on relevant issues related to the Court's performance.
CLI mainly concerns the achievement of the Court's strategic objectives, as they include the quality of audits, results, impact and economic management of the Court's resources.
They form an integral part of the Court's management system as an undertaking.
CENTRE STATEMENTS OF THE COURT'S CERTIFICATES 37 ZLI 1 Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the main addressees of the Court's reports ZLI 2 Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activity by the audited entity ZLI 3 Evaluation of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a team of external experts ZLI 4 Percent of the audit recommendations adopted by the audited entity b) Implementation by the audited entity during a certain number of years ZLI 5 Number of reports adopted in relation to the number of planned reports ZLI 6 Number of reports adopted at the date of ZLI 7 Percentage of audit messages prepared at the time 8 External evaluation of the Court's financial management: a) Opinion of the independent auditor b) Decision of the discharge authority ZLI 9 Level of satisfaction of the Court's staff ZLI 10 Average number of training days per person and quality of audit work can also be improved by considering the impact of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management.
The four key performance indicators (1 to 4) measure the impact of the Court's work.
They were included in the Court's annual work programme for 2010.
38 The number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned In 2009, the Court adopted 91% of the number of reports planned.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted in accordance with the plan.
Of the 24 planned special reports, only 18 were adopted.
The remaining six special reports were still in the final phase at 31 December 2009.
The number of reports adopted in 2009 The Court adopted 67 % of its reports within the deadline.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted in due time.
Due to delays in drawing up special reports, the Court has not achieved the objective of CLI 6. Further efforts should be made to improve compliance with the deadlines for the adoption of special reports.
The Court shall forward the preliminary results of the audit to the audit authority in the audit notice.
The aim is to increase by 10% per year the share of the inspection notifications submitted by the deadline, with the long-term objective being to prepare 80% of the inspection notifications within a specified period (two months after the end of the verification visit).
In 2009, the number of control notifications made over time increased by 16 % compared to 2008.
External evaluation of the Court's financial management: (a) the opinion of the independent auditor; (b) the decision of the discharge authority The independent auditor of the Court has delivered an opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources and the European Parliament has given discharge in accordance with the Council's favourable recommendation.
The level of satisfaction of the Court's staff As part of an internal interview on the satisfaction of the Court's staff in 2009, 86% of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their work (an 80% target), while the level of satisfaction of the Court's staff was 2.8 on a scale of 4 (a goal: 2.5).
The average number of training days for examiners (excluding language courses) According to guidelines published by the International Accounting Federation (IFAC), the Court seeks to provide all examiners with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training.
In 2009, the average was four days.
39 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court has actively and fully continued international cooperation within the following bodies: • the Contact Committee composed of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the EU Member States and the Court, • the Network of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the applicant countries, • the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (EUROSAI) and • the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI).
The Court has contributed to the annual meetings of these organisations and to the improvement of international control rules and procedures and has actively participated in the committees and working groups set up by those organisations.
In particular: • he chaired the working groups set up by the Contact Committee on Common Control Standards and Value Added Tax (VAT); • he participated in the working groups set up by the Contact Committee on Research and Technological Development (PCB) and the Structural Funds (UCITS); • participation in the Working Group EUROSAI on the Environment and the IT Working Group, which is developing guidelines on best practices to achieve quality, the EUROSAI Education Committee and the EUROSAI Task Force on the Evaluation of Civil Protection Assistance Measures; • participation in the INTOSAI Working Group on Accountability and Audit of Civil Protection Assistance; • participation in the INTOSAI Audit Sub-Committees, compliance with the legal and economic control standards and the Global Financial Crisis Task Force 39.
40 STAFF AND SUPPORT SERVICES The Court's most important capital is its staff.
As at 31 December 2009, the Court's staff was 880 employees (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of the 525 staff (including 115 staff in the members' office) the audit tasks were dealt with; 163 were translators, 171 served as administrative support and 21 served as President.
The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional context and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's results.
ENLARGEMENT OF THE COURT'S PLANS TO 31 DECEMBER (busy and vacant) Translation Administrative support The Court committed itself to achieving the strategic objective of improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
Therefore, in 2009 he continued to analyse and exploit the potential of productivity growth in all his activities by simplifying procedures and improving services.
In particular, the resources of the support services that have become available through increased efficiency have been removed as far as possible from these services and made available for audit tasks.
This process has not yet been completed and its effects will be even more visible in 2010.
As regards the human resources sector, the Court identified the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's employees as the main indicator of implementation (ZLI 9) (see page 37).
To this end, a study was carried out with satisfaction aimed at providing information on this subject and supporting the decision-making process in this area.
The Court is currently implementing measures to ensure that better results can be fully exploited in the coming years.
2008 173 2009 Audit tasks 501 525 163 163 171 20 21 Service of the President Total 857 880
The percentage of men and women was almost the same.
12.2001 12.2009 The following graph shows the share of responsibilities between men and women as at 31 December 2009.
Like the other European institutions, the Court implements a policy of equal opportunities for human resources management and recruitment and recognises the need for a more active promotion of equal treatment between men and women in higher management positions.
17 of the 64 directors and heads of departments/departments (26.5 %) are women, which means a small increase in the percentage of women since 2008 (24%).
Most of them, however, work in the Translation Directorate and administrative services.
The increase in the number of women in the functional group AD reflects the results of the last wave of recruitment.
43% of staff in grade AD5-AD8 are women.
Directors and heads of department 2008 2009 41 54 % 46% 51% 49% 76% 24% 73.5% 26.5%
42 Auditors in the Management Boards (functional group AD) 2008 2009 Assistants in the Secretariat (functional group AST) 2008 2009 The following graph showing the age profile of 862 of the Court's staff who served actively as at 31 December 2009 shows that the Court is a young body (61% of the staff are not more than 44 years old).
Among the 99 staff of the Court, who are 55 years of age or older, there are 24 of the 64 directors and heads of the department/reference-endum, which means that there will be significant changes at the highest levels over the next five to ten years.
170 150 131 103 63 34 2 67% 33% 63% 37% 33% 33% 67% PROFIL ALTERS 161 47 1 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-
TERMINATION The Court's recruitment policy complies with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff are composed of both officials and contract staff.
The general selection procedures for the Court are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Court also provides a limited number of traineeships for university graduates for a period of between three and five months.
In 2009, the Court had 112 employees: 69 officials, 14 temporary staff and 29 contract staff.
Recruitment depends on whether reserve lists are available and sufficient in EPSO competitions.
In 2009, the Court managed to employ an adequate number of new workers.
By 26 January 2010, 73 vacant posts at 31 December 2009 could have been reduced by 33% to 49 and the number of job vacancies in the coming months will continue to decrease significantly as other audit staff will be working as a result of the recent wave of recruitment.
At 31 December 2008, 68 posts were not planted.
In August, a reserve list for recruitment was published on the basis of EPSO AD/126/08 and the first successful candidates were employed by the Court at the beginning of November, i.e. only three months later.
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION The profession of controller requires continuous training.
Moreover, due to the specific nature of the Court's audit environment, auditors need good knowledge of foreign languages.
In 2009, the Court's staff completed an average of nine days of vocational training.
Language courses accounted for 64% of the total number of training days in 2009 (compared with 48% in 2008).
In 2009, without taking into account language courses, the auditors completed four days of vocational training (see ZLI 10 on page 38).
This figure is expected to increase in 2010 as new staff will have to undergo a compulsory training programme.
Based on the long-term strategic objective: further development and growth in 2008-2011 and the main training plan for 2008-2011, as well as the training paths adopted in 2009, the vocational education and training department has introduced changes in the content of training and has developed new training courses in line with the priorities set by the Court.
Furthermore, cooperation with other interinstitutional institutions and bodies, such as the European Administrative School, has been successfully continued.
Box 5 contains a portrait of the audit staff within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work done and the persons involved 43.
44 BOX 5 on justice and home affairs in the western Balkans was characterised by violence in the past.
The European Union's interest in this region is to promote security and long-term stability.
The rule of law, border security and the fight against corruption are a fundamental condition for EU accession and represent a serious challenge in the Western Balkans.
The European Commission is the main donor of funding in the region.
The Court's 2009 report on the effectiveness of the Commission's projects in the area of justice and home affairs for the Western Balkans (Special Report No 12/2009) showed the situation in this particularly important area.
The audit concerned both investment projects and institutional development projects in four areas: asylum, integrated border management, judiciary and police.
33 completed projects have been evaluated on the spot, including an asylum centre, a prison in Albania and a court responsible for human rights and war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Several border crossing points have also been visited in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, funded by EU funds, to assess whether EU action has led to improvements.
The study team worked closely with the rapporteur member, Maarten B. Engwirt.
The head of control was Raija Peltonen and Ossi Louko, and the head of the team was Jussi Bright.
Enrico Grassi and Miroslav Matej were involved, and Horst Fischer and Jan Pieter Lingen from Maarten B. Engwird also played an important role.
From left to right: Ms Raija PELTONEN, Head of Unit; Mr Jan Pieter LINGEN, Head of Cabinet; Mr Horst FISCHER, Cabinet-Attaché; Mr Jussi BRIGHT, Chief Audit Board (Group Manager); Mr Maarten B. ENGWIRDA, Member of the Court; Mr Ossi LOUKO, Head of Division; Mr Enrico GRASSI, Financial Audit Board; Mr Miroslav MATEJ, Financial Audit Board, etc.
TRANSLATION TRANSLATION is an important activity in support of control, enabling the Court to carry out its mission and to achieve its communication objectives.
In 2009, the total volume of translations increased by 5.2% compared to 2008.
The share of translation services provided within the prescribed time limit exceeded 95%.
Language support for auditors related to inspection visits and reporting has been strengthened.
The Translation Directorate also supported the INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the Court's activities.
In January 2010, a new IT application (artemis) was introduced to manage translations more effectively.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology provides inspectors with basic tools and services.
The main changes in 2009 were the following: • simplifying processes and continuing the transition to a paperless office through the use of automated permits (records) and electronic forms, introducing electronic signatures and starting work on the creation of an archive database; • enhancing the security of the Court's IT infrastructure by setting up a centre for restoring the database and restoring the advanced version of the Lotus Notes platform, the core structure of the information and documentation/archival systems of the Court; • adopting a long-term IT plan for the period 2010-2012 in order to adapt information technology to the main strategic objectives of the Court and continuing efforts to provide quality services. 45
46 ADMINISTRATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Directorate for Finance and Assistance Services in the field of administrative services and infrastructure.
These include internal and accounting checks and administrative and logistical services.
In 2009, the Directorate focused on reorganising its services with a view to increasing efficiency and efficiency and releasing staff to relocate to control services.
This reorganisation has led to a reduction in the number of units belonging to the Directorates (from five to three) and to the implementation of several posts in the control services.
An important activity of the management was the construction of a new yard building (building K3).
In 2009 the project manager was appointed after the invitation to tender.
Construction works will start in March 2010 and will be completed in 2013.
The time frame and costs set for the project shall continue to be respected.
CONTROL During the Court's audit, auditors must travel to Member States and other countries benefiting from EU funds in order to obtain appropriate evidence.
These visits normally apply to central and local authorities involved in the approval, management and payment of EU funds and to final beneficiaries.
The teams of controllers usually consist of two to three controllers and the duration of the examination trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of examination and the distance.
In the EU, inspections are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities of the Member State which provide useful logistical and practical support.
The following chart shows the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in the EU Member States in 2009 (300).
In addition, 36 inspection visits were carried out outside the Union in 2009.
47 50 40 30 20 10 0 RESEARCH IN MEMBER STATES (INSGESAMT: 300) 48 34 30 23 17 16 15 14 88 77 666 4 333 2222 11 France Germany Spain Italy Greece United Kingdom Poland Portugal Belgium Netherlands Denmark Hungary Austria Sweden Czech Republic Slovakia Lithuania Ireland Slovenia Latvia Romania Cyprus Finland Bulgaria Luxembourg Malta Estonia
In 2009, the overall level of implementation of available budget appropriations was over 92%.
For Title 1 (Members and staff of the institution), this indicator is 88%, with the lowest in Chapter 14 (Other external staff and services) (82%), mainly due to the lack or reduction of posts and savings.
For Title 2 (buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating expenses), the average execution rate is almost 100%.
The amount of payments under Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the work related to the construction of the second enlargement of the Court (building K3).
The first tranche of funding for this project, amounting to EUR 55 million, has been approved for the 2009 budget, which was taken up and partly paid in 2009.
The remaining appropriations for building K3 have been carried over to 2010 and are intended to cover the costs of contracts with construction companies concluded by the project manager on behalf of the Court.
The appropriations will be used as defined by the Court in its proposal to the European Parliament and the Council at the end of 2008.
FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 10 This year officials and temporary staff 14 Including results from external sources Final appropriations 11 718 91 986 4 597 3 290 Commitments 11 318 79 903 3 800 Payments (1 000 EUR) 11 205 79 744 3 763 2 148 1 678 98 538 7 313 3 604 718 275 655 1 055 13 620 112 158 Use of appropriations in % (committed/allocated appropriations) 96,59 86,86 82,66 86,66 85,96 87,96 99,97 99,84 94,12 91,75 99,09 97,22 99,74 92,39
The budget for 2010 of the Court of Justice for 2010 is around 0.1% of the EU general budget or 1.87% of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies.
The table below shows the breakdown of appropriations by budget heading.
In 2010, about 76% of the total budget comes from human resources.
The 2010 budget decreased by 21% compared to 2009, mainly due to a reduction in appropriations for the new Court building (K3).
The total cost of building K3 is estimated at EUR 79 million to be financed over the next four years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 6 million in 2012.
49 BUDGET 10. Members of the institution 12. Officials and temporary staff 14......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
50 ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY REVISION to assist the Court in achieving its objectives through a systematic and methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
In addition, the Internal Audit Department shall submit proposals to enhance the effectiveness of the Court.
This requires a continuous assessment of the internal control systems within the Court in order to assess their effectiveness.
In 2009, the Court's Internal Audit Department focused mainly on accounting checks (accounting checks), ex ante controls, payroll checks and trust accounts, monitoring contracts and procedures for the award of public contracts and analysis of the transport process.
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the internal auditor in 2009 were adopted by the evaluation bodies and incorporated into the corrective action plans.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee shall supervise the internal auditor's activities and ensure his independence.
In addition, it shall examine and approve the work programme and internal auditor's reports and, if necessary, entrust them with specific audit tasks.
In 2009 it is possible to use a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t t t t t r a t o r o r o r o r o r o r o r o r o r a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t i on a t r a t r a t r a t i on a t i on a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t t t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t r a t t t r a t r a t r a t r a t t t t t t
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE COURT The independent auditor's report on the Court of Auditors' accounts for the financial year 2008 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 23 October 2009.
In its audit opinion, the Court's independent auditor (PricewaterhouseCoopers SRL) concluded that the annual accounts comply with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors. As regards the use of resources and control procedures, it is not clear that, in all relevant respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria (a), the appropriations allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes envisaged and (b) do not give the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
I, the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that as authorising officer by delegation, • the information provided to the Court for the purpose of drawing up this report is correct and accurate13 and • I am sufficiently confident that the appropriations for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures put in place give the necessary guarantees of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions14.
Such reasonable assurance shall be based on the assessment of the signed and the information available to it, such as the results of the ex post audit, the internal auditor's reports and the report of the independent auditor from previous financial years.
I, the undersigned, declare that I do not know any circumstances which could harm the interests of the institution.
Luxembourg, 12 February 2010 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 13 already and precisely in this context means that a reliable, complete and correct picture of the condition of the service is being presented.
14 The term "the underlying transactions" refers in this context to operations in respect of which the undersigned authorising officer by delegation.
European Court of Auditors 2009 Annual Activity Report Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2010 in 52 pp. 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518
Where to receive EU publications? Publications payable: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • through a bookstore with a title, publisher or ISBN number; • directly via one of our sales outlets.
You can obtain contact details at http://bookshop.europa.eu or by sending a fax to +352 2929-42758.
Free publications: • at EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the European Commission's representations and delegations.
Contact details can be obtained from the website http://ec.europa.eu or by sending a fax to +352 2929-42758. www.eca.europa.eu
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 QJ-AA-10-001-DE-C
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2010
The European Court of Auditors has adopted the following principles: the European Court of Auditors is responsible for the control of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and at the same time acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens by promoting accountability and transparency.
The independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is characterised by fairness and impartiality and is considered to be professional as well as the quality and impact of its work, provides valuable support to its addressees in improving the EU's financial management.
INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRATION AND INDEPENDENCE PROFESSIONALITY MORE EXTERNAL VALUE AND EFFECTITY Independence, integrity and impartiality of an institution whose members and employees prepare appropriate and timely high-quality reports, based on reliable findings and evidence, taking into account the needs of its recipients and containing important and directional statements, including recognition of the values of the individual, supporting the further development of specific skills and the award of the results of support for the team spirit through effective communication Providing the addressee with appropriate audit results, each form of interference being rejected by means of external instructions or pressures, while maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of its work Active participation in the further development of public control at EU and worldwide level and increasing efficiency in all aspects of its work in order to improve the management of the EU budget and contribute to increasing accountability of the management of EU financial resources.
3 CONTENTS Page 4 no 5 7 9 no 25 9. 22 23.... 25 26... 25 26...45 26...27 28... 33 34... 40... 42 43...45 The president's representatives 2010 of our activities Audit reports and opinions Cooperation with other MANAGEMENTS REALIZE Strategy 2009-2012 Measuring data on the Court's results in 2010 Support for audits Financial information Control and accountability
4 Welcome to the fourth annual report on the activities of the European Court of Auditors. This year we took advantage of the opportunity to re-divide the content into two main sections: "Our actions" and "Our governance" and for the first time presented a review of all performance indicators.
In 2010, the Court of Auditors had two important opportunities to participate in the debate on the reform of EU financial management.
At the beginning of the year, the Court presented an opinion to the new Commission on the main risks and challenges of improving EU financial management and at the end of the year an opinion on the Commission's proposals for amending the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the EU.
In the perspective of 2011, the Court will continue to implement its values and continue to develop the results and results achieved.
We will once again present high-quality, independent and objective reports and opinions that will contribute to improving EU financial management and contribute to greater accountability and transparency, and in particular will continue to closely monitor the development of EU economic governance and address new legislative proposals affecting EU financial management after 2013.
We are planning to publish 45 annual reports, i.e. annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and European development funds, as well as specific annual reports on agencies, institutions and other bodies.
Special reports provide an important opportunity for added value, as they focus on areas with greater risks and on topics of particular relevance to consumers, in particular to report on the quality of EU spending in different areas, ranging from the financial instruments and guarantee instrument for SMEs, to projects funded by the EU in the field of electronic administration and the single payment scheme in agriculture.
While continuing to implement the 2009-2012 strategy, the Court hopes that it will be able to take full advantage of the benefits of recent reforms, including improved decision-making procedures.
Without the involvement and professionalism of all the Court's staff in 2010, we would not have achieved what we have achieved.
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5 7 2010 FOR EVENTS OF OUR ACTIONs on Annual Reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2009 by 40 Special Annual Reports on the various EU agencies, institutions and other bodies for the financial year 2009 by 14 Special Reports, mainly on the audit of the implementation of the EU budget for an Opinion on improving the financial management of the EU by five other opinions on new or revised EU legislation, including the proposal for amending the Financial Regulation on Regulated Participation in international auditing practices in the field of financial control and specialised cooperation, including the development of new standards for the highest audit bodies (ISSAI) on Pilot Project with coordinated audits on the regularity of agricultural expenditure involving the highest audit authorities of the Netherlands and the Czech Republic, to submit a review of all key performance indicators, which show that the main addressees are satisfied with the quality of the Court's work on the revision of the Court's rules of procedure by applying decision-making procedures for the Recruitment of 97 new workers, which the number of workers still stands at 5
9 OUR CONTROL REPORTS AND NOTES The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: annual audit reports carried out by the Court of Auditors for each financial year (including specific annual reports published separately for the agencies, institutions and other bodies of the European Union); special reports at any time during the year, together with the results of audits selected by the Court of Auditors, mainly economic audits to assess savings, efficiency and effectiveness in selected areas of EU revenue and expenditure; opinions on draft legislative acts with financial implications.
Number of reports and opinions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports (agencies, institutions and other EU bodies) 23 29 29 37 40 Special reports 11 9 12 18 14 Opinions 8 9 5 1 6 The full version of the reports and opinions is available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
The annual report presents the following main information: • The annual accounts of the European Union show the financial situation and the results of operations and cash flows in all material respects. • With the exception of the two expenditure sectors (Economics and finance, administrative and other expenditure) the payments from the budget are still largely affected by errors. • The Court estimates that the most likely error rate in expenditure in the cohesion policy group was significantly lower than in previous years and the overall error rate estimated by the Court has decreased in recent years. • The Commission has improved its data on recovery of amounts unduly paid and other corrections.
However, this information is not fully reliable; the Commission's information on corrective actions does not allow a reliable comparison to be made with the Court's estimated error rate; the Court's report points out, on the basis of recommendations, how financial management can be improved by strengthening management systems and simplifying rules and regulations.
On 9 November 2010, the Court published an annual report on the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2009 together with a report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2009.
Special annual reports on EU agencies, institutions and other bodies for 2009. In December 2010, the Court published 40 special annual reports on EU agencies, institutions and other bodies for the financial year 20092.
The Court found that the supervisory and control systems are partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments; the Court's report recommends improving certain aspects of EDF financial management, including the cost-effectiveness of expenditure control, the audit of annual audits of completed projects and the control of the use and monitoring of budget support.
12 Special reports adopted in 2010 When selecting and shaping its tasks in terms of performance control and compliance, the Court always seeks to achieve maximum impact with the best possible use of the resources allocated to these tasks.
In choosing the subject matter, the Court takes into account the following factors: • the risk to profitability or compliance with legal standards in a given area of income or expenditure; • the level of income or expenditure; • the time elapsed since a possible prior assessment; • future changes in the legal or operational framework; • the political and public interest.
In order to obtain the necessary control evidence, it is necessary to carefully plan and carry out selected checks on efficiency and compliance and, before publishing the report, the Court gives the audited authorities the opportunity to comment on its findings and replies.
Therefore, these checks usually last longer than one year.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITOR EN IMPROVING TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE ON TRANS-EUROPEAN RAIL AXES: HAVE EU RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS BEEN EFFECTIVE?
Special Report No 8 2010 ISSN XXXX-XXXX
13 MAJOR COMPLIANCES WITH THE EXPERIENCE OF THE PRIOR HOLDING CONDITIONS FOR TEST TO establish the feasibility of the study, containing detailed information.
detailed planning, including the definition of objectives and scope, as well as the approach and methods used.
Analysis of findings and confirmation of facts by the audited entity.
Preparation of the draft special report.
Antitrust procedure with the EU body under investigation.
3 The figures reflect recent developments in the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and current prices (source: European Commission).
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of actions supporting design studies and the development of new infrastructures under the Sixth Framework Programme for Research (Special Report No 2/2010) based on feasibility studies in potential future research institutions and under the "Development of new infrastructures" action to support the development of new or improved existing infrastructure.
During the audit, the Court examined whether these two measures effectively contributed to the achievement of the infrastructure objectives under the Sixth Framework Programme 2002-2006. • Impact assessments in the EU institutions: do they help in decision-making?
(Special Report No 3/2010) is not one of the pillars of Better Regulation policy to improve and simplify EU legislative proposals. The evaluation examined whether the Commission's impact assessments effectively supported the decision-making process in the EU institutions and the comments made in this report are also relevant to other budgetary areas.
• Does the design and management of mobility actions under the Leonardo da Vinci programme allow for effective results?
(Special Report No 4/2010) Mobility projects under the Leonardo da Vinci programme enable organisations involved in vocational education and training to carry out their studies in another European country. Activities are part of the integrated Lifelong Learning Programme. During the evaluation, the Commission and national agencies carried out an assessment of the project and management, whether actions can achieve their objectives. • Improving transport efficiency on trans-European rail axes: Are EU rail infrastructure investments effective?
(Special Report No 8/2010) (see box on cost efficiency control.) • Is EU spending on structural measures in the field of water supply to households spent in an optimal way?
(Special Report No 9/2010) In the 2000-2006 programming period, over EUR 4 billion were allocated from the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund to support projects in the field of water supply infrastructure for households. The Court examined whether these measures were effectively used to address a number of needs, such as increasing water availability, extending geographical coverage, improving the economic efficiency of water supply systems and improving the quality of services 15.
16 ADOPTION OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REVIEW OF THE IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPORT IN TRANS-EUROPEAN RAILS: HAVE THE EU INVESTMENTS IN THE RAILWAY OF CAPACITY BEEN EFFECTIVE? IN THE DETAILED REPORT No 8/2010 The study focused on EU co-financing of railway infrastructure and examined whether this effectively contributed to improving the efficiency of trans-European axes.
In the light of the forthcoming revision of the TEN-T guidelines in 2011, the Court's report was presented at a particularly favourable time; the Court recommended that the Commission cooperate with the Member States and railway authorities to identify where the trans-European corridors are in high demand and, if necessary, to increase knowledge and analysis base; • to put greater emphasis on reducing practical restrictions on international rail transport; • to promote and facilitate cooperation between the authorities of the Member States responsible for the railway sector with a view to jointly planning changes and common practical solutions to problems.
17 Sometimes it happened that the team faced several challenges, says Gareth Roberts, head of the team of controllers.. We had to get very quickly acquainted with the conditions of European rail transport and see some examples of the successes of the modern railroads, but also a few sections of the network that seemed to come from another era.
We wanted to examine to what extent the European rail system is gradually changing from one place to another.
There were 10 controllers involved in the on-the-spot work because we had to deal with many different languages.
Since then, I have become a fan of the railroad! According to Andrei Minarovič, a labour controller in Germany and Austria.
At the end of the exam Fernando Pascual Gil received the nickname "Maulkret" as part of the team because he spent a long time in railway tunnels in the Alps and Pyrenees. The evaluation team visited eight Member States and examined the impact of 21 railway projects co-financed by the European Union in the framework of trans-European transport networks and cohesion policy on trans-European rail transport.
For this purpose, members of the team traveled through the Alps on freight trains and visited large tunnels.
These visits were a valuable complement to the knowledge gained by the auditors in the review of reports, interviews with railway workers and ordinary financial analyses.
18 Conservation and management of natural resources In relation to the budget of EUR 413 billion for 2007-2013, the EU has extensive political competence and responsibility in agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment, and three quarters of the funds are allocated to agricultural markets and direct payments to farmers financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF), the most pillar of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
More than one fifth of expenditure comes from support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second pillar of the CAP.
Agriculture and rural development shall be managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Implementation of the Leader approach for rural development (Special Report No 5/2010) In 2010 Leader is a bottom-up approach based on local partnerships to support rural development. • The audit examined whether the Leader approach was implemented in such a way as to achieve additional benefits compared to the traditional top-down approach and at the same time minimise risks for sound financial management. • Has the reform of the sugar market achieved its main objectives?
(Special Report No 6/2010) In 2006, the EU carried out a thorough reform of the sugar sector aimed at ensuring the competitiveness of the EU sugar industry, stabilising markets and supplies and ensuring an adequate standard of living for the rural population.
In addition to EU enlargement in the field of external relations, the EU has three main objectives: ensuring stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood (including the EU and its neighbourhood policy); actively supporting sustainable development at international level (including the EU as a partner for sustainable development); supporting global political governance in this area (including ensuring strategic and civil security) (under the Global Player programme not only).
The Commission shall mainly manage expenditure directly through its central services or delegations.
Some support measures will also be managed jointly with international organisations. • The Commission's management of the system of veterinary checks on imports of meat following the 2004 sanitary reform (Special Report No 14/2010) on veterinary checks on imports is an integral part of EU food safety policy and contributes to reducing the risk of disease and health crises which may cause high costs to the EU budget. In assessing how the Commission monitors the EU veterinary control system at border inspection posts introduced in 2006 in the framework of the health legislation reform of foodstuffs which entered into force in 2006.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • The management of general budget support in ACP, Latin American and Asian countries by the Commission (Special Report No 11/2010) Many donors, including the European Commission, generally consider the most effective way of providing development assistance.
The audit examined whether the Commission effectively managed budget support programmes in the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, Latin America and Asia19.
20 • EU support for the development of basic education in subSaharan Africa and south Asia (Special Report No 12/2010) Under the Education for All initiative and the Millennium Development Goals, the EU and the international donor community have committed themselves to providing basic education for all children, to eliminating gender inequalities and to improving the quality of education, and to examining whether EU development assistance has contributed to achieving these objectives in subSaharan Africa and South Asia and whether the Commission has managed its interventions satisfactorily.
The European Union budget revenue is mainly financed by own resources and other revenue.Traditional own resources in particular from duties of around 12% and own resources under VAT represent a further 12% of total revenue.Most EU own resources (70%) come from gross national income-based own resources which, as a residual income, ensure that the budget is always sustainable. • Has the new European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument in the Southern Caucasus (Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia) been successfully implemented and achieved?
(Special Report No 13/2010) under the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) established a framework for the planning and implementation of assistance actions for partner countries and territories.
More than € 311 million have been allocated in the Southern Caucasus since 2007 and the audit has examined whether the ENPI is effectively launched and achieved results.
In 2010, the Court adopted a special report on • Simplified customs procedures (No 1/2010) for simplified customs procedures, approved operators benefit from accelerated customs clearance and a simplified system of customs payments, which form part of EU revenue.
The audit assessed the effectiveness of the legal framework and the approach of the Commission and the Member States to control, and the opinions issued in 2010 on proposals for new or revised legislative acts with financial implications contributed to improving EU financial management.
Opinion No 6/2010 concerns an important Commission proposal for a review of the Financial Regulation which sets out how EU budget resources are collected, spent and booked.
On the basis of the comments made in Opinion No 1/2010 (see above), the Court also points out that in order to improve the quality of EU expenditure in certain areas of expenditure, simpler and better rules are needed in the EU budget, as well as other support measures promoting and encouraging managers to carry out their business activities by the Commission, other institutions and Member States.
Ongoing contacts shall be maintained by liaison officers appointed by individual CMRs.
Pilot project will be completed in 2011 by 24 ORKB networks of candidate countries and potential candidate countries.The Court has actively participated in ORKB meetings of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia) 4 which took place in parallel with the meetings of the Contact Committee.
The Court continued its active participation and participation in improving international audit rules and procedures through membership of European and international organisations of public financial control bodies, in particular INTOSAI5 and their European regional group EUROSAI.
The delegation of the Court took place on the 20th INCOSAI Congress in South Africa on 22-27 November 2010.
Since 2004, when the Court has become a full member of INTOSAI, it has actively participated in the sub-committees on various types of controls and has also contributed to the subcommittee on promoting best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews and has supported enhanced efforts to develop the competences of INTOSAI members.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Party on the Response and Audit of Assistance in Savings.
An important objective of these working groups is to develop guidelines on responsibility for civil protection assistance and to identify and disseminate best practices, focusing on actions aimed at stakeholders (maritime organisations, relief organisations, governments, private controllers), and the interim report of the Working Group was presented to the INTOSAI Congress in November 2010.
In 2010, the Court also participated in INTOSAI-Taskforce in the Global Financial Crisis. Within EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and the IT Working Party and participates in the EUROSAI Education Committee.
The Court also participated in the work of the working group set up at the 7th EUROSAI Conference in 2008 to draw up a guide on best practices to achieve quality within the OPCW. Moreover, the Court is one of the auditors of EUROSAI 25.
26 OUR MANAGEMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIES FOR 2009-2012 In recent years, the Court has launched an internal reform process following self-assessment and peer review in 2008 on the audit management framework.
As a result, a strategy was developed for 2009-2012 to address the shortcomings identified; the overarching objectives for this period are: to maximise the overall impact of controls; to improve efficiency through the best use of resources.
Many of the priority actions set out in the strategy have already been completed; the remaining actions will be implemented in 2011 and 2012. The main achievements achieved in 2010 are: to achieve the objective of presenting 12-15 annual reports on budget implementation checks; to develop new products - a document on risks and challenges for the new Commission (opinion No 1/2010) and to establish a new reporting system for the implementation of the Court's recommendations from 2012 onwards; to review the Court's Rules of Procedure to improve decision-making procedures by introducing chambers and strengthening the governance structure; to develop a review of all performance indicators; to further develop an approach to the annual review of the implementation of the EU budget (confidence of reliability) on the basis of the recommendations of the internal panel supported by external experts; to regroup different positions within the control services.
6 The audit strategy 2009-2012 for audit is available on the Court's website.
27 INTRODUCTION OF KAMMERN UNDER THE NEW INTERNAL REGULATION One of the main recommendations of the Court's reform process was to make use of the possibility for the Court to adopt certain categories of reports and opinions of the chambers provided for in Article 287 (4) of the Treaty, while respecting the principle of collegiality.
Following the Council's approval of the necessary amendments to the Court's Rules of Procedure on 1 June 2010, chambers were set up, consisting of members of the Court, who adopt special reports, special annual reports and opinions on draft legal acts. Earlier, all these reports and opinions were adopted by the entire College, and with regard to the annual reports on the EU budget and the EDF, this is still the case.
Although most of the Court's reports are now approved by the Chambers, the Chambers have the opportunity to refer their documents to the Court for adoption.
All members may attend meetings of chambers to which they do not belong without voting rights.
Members of the Court
Since 2008, the Court has progressively developed a set of key performance indicators (CL) to inform management of progress towards the 2009-2012 targets; to support decision-making; to provide information on the results to the Court's addressees.
As a review of all indicators is available for the first time in 2010, this year is the reference year for future progress assessments and the Court is very pleased with the results achieved in 2010 with regard to key performance indicators, in particular with regard to the quality and impact of its work.
More importantly, indicators clearly identify the areas where progress needs to be made and the problems that need to be addressed in order to achieve future productivity growth.
29 The quality and impact of the Court's work shall be assessed by the Court on the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of the assessments carried out by the addressees and the inspections carried out by the experts and by monitoring its recommendations.
Evaluation of addressees The Court asked the main addressees of its reports (the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgets of the Council) and the main bodies audited (mainly European Commission staff) to assess the quality and impact of the annual reports published in 2009 (in relation to the general budget and the EDF) and the special reports.
The evaluation should be based on a five-stage scale (1 very weak, 2 bad, 3 suitable, 4 good, 5 very good).
2010 A deliberate assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by the main addressee 4.2 ≥4 The assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the audited entity The result is that the main administrator of the Court's reports has found them to be medium good.
The Court seeks to maintain or improve this level.
Reviews carried out by experts The two external bodies reviewed the content and presentation of the sample of the Court's reports published in 2009 and 2010. The verifiers assessed eight special reports and the annual report on the general budget and the EDF for both years and assessed the quality of the different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from less than the total impact.
2010 Objective 3.0 ≥ 3 3.7 ≥4 reviews of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by external experts The result is that the auditors consider the quality of the Court's reports to be satisfactory.
The reviews have provided valuable information and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports.
30 Follow-up of the recommendations The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations to improve financial management.In order to amend the Court's recommendation, the evaluation bodies must first accept and subsequently implement it, and this indicator is based on recommendations published in 2009, i.e. the latest available, annual and special reports.
In 2010, the objective of 90% ≥ 90% of the audit recommendations adopted by the audited body is to maintain or even improve this high level of acceptance in its recommendations.
In 2010, the Court established a system for monitoring the implementation of recommendations by evaluation bodies.
In the coming years, this system is intended to serve as a basis for a further indicator of the scope of practical implementation of the recommendations and to improve them.
In addition, the Court will provide valuable information in order to improve the quality of its recommendations and thereby increase their acceptance of the audit bodies.
31 The efficiency and effectiveness of the use of resources The Court shall assess the efficiency and effectiveness of the use of resources, depending on the extent to which it is able to report and audit reports in good time, fulfil its financial management obligations and ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff.
The deadlines for publication of annual reports and detailed annual reports set out in the legislation should be respected.
In the case of special reports for which there is no publication date specified in the provisions, the date of their adoption shall be deemed to be the date of their adoption.
2010 The target of the number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned 90 % 100 % of the percentage of the reports adopted 80 % 100 % Overall, the Court did not achieve the 2010 target.
In 2010, the Court adopted less reports than planned and the results were comparable to those of the previous year (91% in 2009). Moreover, although in 2010 the percentage of reports adopted by date (80% compared with 67% in 2009) further improvements are needed.
While all annual reports and special annual reports have been adopted and published in accordance with the timetable, only three special reports have been adopted and published in due time.
Six special reports delayed their adoption by 2011.
The Court seeks to achieve the objectives by introducing further measures by the end of 2012 to improve the management of procedures for special reports.
2010 The target percentage of audit messages by 2012 54 % 80 % by 2012. The results achieved in 2010 are not yet at the required level, but significant progress has been made over the last two years (43% in 2009 and 27% in 2008).
The Court will continue its efforts to achieve this objective. The Court's external evaluation of financial management seeks to obtain a full opinion from an independent auditor on the annual accounts and the use of resources, as well as from the European Parliament on the basis of a positive Council opinion on discharge.
2010 Objective Yes Yes Unlimited opinion of independent auditor and discharge
Vocational training According to guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court seeks to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training.
2010 The target average number of training days per person 5.7 days ≥ 5 days 33 In 2010 the required level was reached, which means an improvement compared to 2009 (average of 4 days).
The level of employee satisfaction As part of an internal interview on the satisfaction of the Court's staff in 2009, 86% of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their work, with a level of satisfaction of 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4. Each value above 2.5 indicates overall satisfaction; the Court seeks to maintain or improve this result if a similar study is carried out at the end of 2012.
34 CONTROL SUPPORT The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its specialised services, which provide technical knowledge and logistics, enabling the Court to recruit, maintain and motivate its staff and develop their professional skills; to disseminate the results of the audit in all the official languages of the EU; to make the best use of information technologies; to manage budgetary resources and maintain infrastructure; to carry out audit visits in all countries where EU funds are used.
As of 31 December 2010, the Court's staff was 889 employees (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 557 people work in the control chambers (including 123 staff in the members' office), 151 in the Translation Directorate, 157 in the administrative services and 24 in the President's services. In 2010, with a view to making the best use of resources, the possibilities for increasing productivity in all activities were reconsidered and implemented by simplifying procedures and rationalising services.
As far as possible, jobs released as a result of productivity gains outside the scope of control have been transferred to the audit service, which has increased the number of posts used for the examination tasks by 6%, which will continue in 2011.
Division of the Court's positions as at 31 December 2008 2010 Audit chambers 501 525 557 Translation 163 163 151 Support 173 171 157 Service of the President 20 21 24 Total 857 880 889
35 Men Women The following graphs show that men and women are responsible, like other EU institutions, for their staff policy and for recruitment, for equal opportunities policy as at 31 December 2010.
20 of the 67 directors and heads of departments (30%) are women, which means a steady increase compared to previous years.
However, most of them work in the Translation Directorate in administrative and administrative departments.
2001 2010 54% 46% 50% 50%
36 Assistants Secretaries (functional group AST) Auditors (working group AD) Men Women 2009 2010 2010 Age profile 2009 2010 Men Women 27 % 73 % 63 % 37 % 31 % Directors and Directors of departments 69 % 62 % 38 % Women Still increases the percentage of women at AD level due to new employment.
After the last wave of employment, 45% of employees in grade AD5-AD8 are women.
74% 26 % 70 % 30% 30% The age profile of full-time workers on 31 December 2010 shows that 62% of the Court's employees are 44 years old or younger. Age 20-24 0% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 24 of the 67 directors and heads of departments are 55 years old or older.
4% 18% 20% 20% 15% 12% 7% 4%
37 Vocational training The controller's profession requires continuous training to keep up with new changes and acquire new skills.
In 2010, efforts were made to implement the staff change plan adopted by the Secretary-General, which planned to transfer posts and staff from translation services to examination services in 2011. In 2010, the "Vocational Training" department developed a substantive improvement of training activities based on the main training plan for 2008-2011 and the training paths adopted in 2009 and developed new training courses in line with the priorities adopted by the Court.
In addition, the Translation Directorate for the Court provided valuable linguistic support to mission controllers and at subsequent stages of drawing up audit reports.
The Translation Directorate also supported the INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the Court's activities.
Work on the Artemis project to improve the function of this important IT application for translators continued in 2010 and the Translation Directorate of the Court actively participated in interinstitutional and international bodies.
38 IT Technologies (IT) play a key role in achieving the overarching objectives of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy. In 2010, the following changes were noted: • the creation of a cooperation platform in line with the 2010-2012 strategic IT plan to promote knowledge exchange, in particular in the field of control; • the continuation of efforts to optimise and simplify internal procedures through electronic working processes to increase efficiency and efficiency; the management and infrastructure of the Directorate for Finance and Support for Implementation Assistance in an effective, effective and timely manner; and the provision of the necessary funding, internal control and accounting mechanisms to support all actions of the Court.
In 2010, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to release resources for transfer to the control services. • Use of smartphones and devices to process laptops in order to enable effective checks to be carried out anywhere and at any time, including as part of the Court's emergency action plan.
On the basis of an agreement with the budgetary authorities on the financing of building K3 at the end of 2008, the main objective in 2010 was to develop calls for proposals for works and ancillary services and to publish them by the project manager.
A significant proportion of the contracts for this project were awarded during the year and the time and budget framework for the construction project are respected and the completion of the project is planned at the end of 2012.
39 Audit visits During the Court's audit work, auditors must go to the Member States and other beneficiaries of EU funds and to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations.
TEST CONTROL In 2010 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 The visit is usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in approving, managing and paying EU funds and by final beneficiaries.
In the EU, inspections are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities of the Member State which provide useful logistical and practical support.
52 38 32 30 26 23 15141312111010 9 7 655543321211111111111111111 France Germany United Kingdom Italy Spain Netherlands Sweden Greece Denmark Luxembourg Hungary Poland Ireland Austria Romania Belgium Slovenia Slovakia Czech Republic Lithuania Bulgaria Cyprus Finland Latvia Estonia Malta Croatia Ethiopia Mali Rwanda Bangladesh Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Burkina Faso Dominican Republic Ghana Israel UNMIK Malawi Nepal Norway South Africa Sudan Switzerland Uganda Ukraine USA (UN)
40 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The European Court of Auditors is financed by the general budget of the European Union, which accounts for around 0,1% of the total EU budget and less than 2% of the total administrative expenditure.
Implementation of the 2010 budget Title 1: Members and servants of the institutions Final appropriations Financial year 2010 Use of appropriations in % (committed/allocated appropriations) Payments (in EUR 1000) 10 already members of the institution 13 364 12 980 98% 12 687 12 already officials and temporary staff 94 245 87 459 93% 87 104 14? Other persons and services 4 604 3 590 78% 3 567 162 for business trips 3 450 3 231 94% 2 775 161, 163, 165 390 99% Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 2 861 1 887 66 % 1 435 Title 1 118 524 109 147 92 107 568 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating expenses 20 in the same building 25. in conferences and conferences 27.
41 In 2010, the overall level of implementation of available budget appropriations was 93%.
42 The 2011 budget fell by 2.44% compared to 2010, mainly due to a reduction in the budget allocated to the new Court building (K3). The cost of building K3 is estimated at EUR 79 million, which will be financed over the next five years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 3 million in 2012 and 2013.
Budget 2010 Title 1: Members and servants of the institutions 10 institutions 12 930 13 364 (in a thousand euro) 12 y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y s y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y s y y y y y s y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y s y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y.
The internal audit department of the Court is to assist the Court in achieving its objectives through a systematic, methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.In addition, on the basis of an assessment of the effectiveness of the Court's internal control systems, the internal audit agency shall submit proposals to enhance the effectiveness of the Court.
In 2010, the Court's internal audit services focused mainly on implementing the recommendations of previous years, reviewing the reform of the Court's ex ante control system, monitoring the implementation of the Court's SOS II/SAP and the compliance of the video surveillance system with data protection rules and requirements.
In 2009, the Court's internal audit services were checked and certified in accordance with the international standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The auditor's opinion on the Court of Auditors' accounts for the financial year 2009 was published in October 20107.
OJ C 279, 15.10.2010.
44. THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 FINANCIAL YEAR: In our view, the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2009 and the results and cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of the Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors. ON THE ADAPTATION OF RESOURCES AND CONTROL PROCEDURES: for our actions described in this report, we are not in a position to conclude that, in all relevant respects and taking into account these evaluation criteria, (a) the appropriations allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes provided for; and (b) the control procedures put in place do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and confirm with reasonable assurance that: • the appropriations made available for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management; • the control procedures laid down provide the necessary guarantees for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of allegations of fraud or fraud; this sufficient security shall be based on an assessment of the signed and available information, such as the results of the ex post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's opinions concerning the previous financial years.
The I-IV control chambers cover different areas of revenue and expenditure, while the fifth CEAD chamber is responsible for horizontal issues.
Each member shall be responsible for specific tasks, in particular as regards controls, and the members shall submit proposals for checks and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible, to the Chamber and to the Court.
Members shall be assisted by their cabinet representatives and a team of auditors appointed for examination tasks.
ISSN 1684-0666 2011 DE Annual Report on the operation of the European Court of Auditors
Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Here is a free phone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Some mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or these calls may be billed.
More information on the European Union is available on the Europa website (http://europa.eu).
Cataloguing data can be found at the end of this publication.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2012 ISBN 978-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693 © European Union, 2012 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium Printing on WHITE CHLORINE-free PAPER (ECF)
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2011
The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the control of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU controller, it contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and, at the same time, it is an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
The independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is characterised by fairness and impartiality and is considered to be professional as well as the quality and impact of its work, provides valuable support to its addressees in improving the EU's financial management.
INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRATION AND INDEPENDENCE OF PROFESSIONALITY MORE EXTERNAL VALUE AND EFFIciency Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff.
Unbiased examination, taking into account the views of the stakeholders but rejecting any form of interference by means of instructions or external pressures.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
contribute to the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level.
preparing appropriate and timely high-quality reports, based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of the addressees and containing relevant and guiding comments.
contribute to the effective improvement of EU governance and contribute to increasing responsibility for managing EU funds.
Supporting the spirit of cooperation through effective communication.
increase efficiency in all aspects of his work.
3 PAGE 4 SUBMISSION OF THE PRESIDENT 7 2011 TO ACTION 9 OUR ACTIONS 9 Audit reports and opinions 23 Cooperation with other Brown 28 Other actions 31 OUR MANAGEMENT 31 Implementation of the Strategy 2009-2012 33 Measuring data on the Court's performance in 2011 37 Support for control actions 43 Financial information 46 Audit and accountability
4 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to the reading of the annual report on the European Court of Auditors' activities for 2011.
The economic and financial crisis led to significant changes in the EU's economic governance, which have a significant impact on the future use of public funds.
In this context, the Court published a document in May presenting the impact of the measures taken in response to the financial and economic crisis on accountability, transparency and financial control.
Later, during the year, the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Authorities (ORKB) of the EU Member States and the European Court of Auditors called on EU decision-makers to ensure that the principles of accountability, transparency and public control are properly respected whenever public funds are used.
In particular, the euro area ECB called for appropriate provisions for public external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
This led to a decision on the establishment of an audit committee for the stability mechanism to which the member proposed by the Court belongs.
Also in 2011, the results of our key performance indicators are encouraging, especially as regards the monitoring of recommendations made by our evaluation bodies, as well as the evaluation of our control activities by addressees and external experts.
We have managed to increase our performance with regard to the number of audit reports and opinions adopted in 2011, but we have failed to achieve the ambitious targets we have set for the punctuality of the reports.
Our annual reports now included even more detailed information and a new chapter on results, as well as 42 special annual reports and 16 special reports, together with seven opinions and a position document.
In November 2011, the European Court of Justice confirmed the scope of the institutions' control powers with regard to Union revenue and expenditure, in particular with regard to VAT-based own resources in the Member States.
From 2012 onwards, we will be able to inform you of the extent to which our recommendations will be implemented in practice.
In addition, our methods of performance control will be peer reviewed in order to further improve the preparation of special reports.
In 2011, we published ethical guidelines to further strengthen the Court's audit management framework and revised the audit strategies and guidelines of the Court's audit in order to improve the audit and reporting process.
In addition, we will launch a new consultation on employee satisfaction in 2012.
With the future in mind, in 2012 we will complete the preparation of our strategy for 2013-2017.
Some of the most important challenges are already visible: the EU regulatory framework will continue to develop and we must continue to strive for proper compliance with the principles of accountability, transparency and public control.
The need to ensure a high quality and timely guarantee of the use of EU funds is growing and we need to improve our audits and reports accordingly.
As the EU is constantly changing, we will also try to make the best of our audit experience in order to help policy makers improve financial management.
Strengthening the EU's financial responsibility is an objective that we have in common with other actors and we will seek to combine our efforts through strategic partnerships.
Finally, like other EU institutions and bodies, we need to be able to achieve less in order to make our organisation more effective.
These challenges will depend to a large extent on the efforts of all the Court's staff.
Developing the excellence of our employees is an important issue for us and remains an important issue for us.
As regards professionalism, commitment and past performance of our employees, I am convinced that the Court will be able to achieve these future objectives.
Vítor Manuel da Silva CALDEIRA President 5
7 2011 FOR EVENTS OF OUR ACTIVITIES on Annual Reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010, including further detailed information on 42 specific annual reports on the various agencies, decentralised EU institutions and agencies for the financial year 2010 by 16 Special Reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues by 7 Opinions on budgetary reforms, such as the modernisation of public procurement policy and the Commission's legislative proposal on rules on cohesion expenditure after 2013 on a document on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public responsibility and financial control in the EU and the role of the Court of UNSER MANAGEMENT, continue to encourage the results of our key performance indicators, in particular as regards the quality and impact of our work on the adoption of ethical guidelines to further strengthen the audit management framework for the review of the Court's audit strategy and audit guidelines to improve the audit and reporting process for the implementation of administrative staff, which contributes to improving the quality and impact of our key performance indicators in 2008.
Number of reports and opinions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Annual reports (general budget of the EU and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 29 29 37 40 42 Special reports 9 12 18 14 16 Opinions and other statements 9 5 1 6 8 The full version of the reports and opinions is available on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in 22 official EU languages.
This led to the publication of the 2010 annual report on 10 November 2011, including the 17th Statement of Assurance (DAS).
Some changes have been made in the 2010 Annual Report to improve clarity and quality of information.
These include the recasting of thematic groups (and relevant annual chapters) among which the Court has grouped expenditure, the publication of estimated levels of error by policy area (see below), greater attention to recommendations on improving financial management and a new chapter on results.
For the first time, the Court published estimated error rates for both the EU budget as a whole and for individual thematic groups.
The error rates shall be determined by extrapolating the quantifiable errors found in the audited transaction trials.
The Court compares the estimated error rate with a materiality threshold of 2% to determine whether the error is material, taking into account further evidence.
The error rate is not a measure of fraud, but reflects the Court's estimates of the extent to which expenditure rules have been infringed.
This includes breaches of public procurement rules, ineligible or miscalculated costs of projects co-financed by the EU or excessive land data provided by farmers.
The 2010 Annual Report provides the following main information: on the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 it presents the relevant financial situation of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows during the year.
On the other hand, the payments underlying this financial statement are heavily affected by errors; the estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole is 3.7%.
The control systems were partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments as a whole. The error rate estimated by the Court in cohesion, energy and transport expenditure (the most defective expenditure area in the EU) was 7.7% higher than in 2009 o In other spending areas in the EU, the error rate remained relatively stable.
In the policy group Agriculture and natural resources, the estimated error rate was 2.3%, i.e. above the materiality threshold.
However, direct payments to farmers did not show any significant errors. o Participation of pre-financing payments in pre-financing payments under the EU budget has increased significantly.
Accounting rules and supervisory rules have not been properly adapted. o When planning EU spending programmes, the Commission and the Member States should further seek to define SMART objectives, i.e. specific, measurable, achievable, proportionate and timely, as well as to identify and reduce risks that may arise in the course of implementation.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND 2010 In its annual report on the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010 (published on 10 November 2011), the Court concluded that the EDF accounts for 2010 constitute essentially the appropriate financial position of the EDF and the results of its operations and cash flows, in accordance with the Financial Regulation.
The revenue of the EDF shall not be burdened with serious errors.
EDF's commitments were legal and correct, regardless of non-quantifiable public procurement errors.
However, EDF payments for projects were largely affected by errors; the estimated error rate is 3.4%.
The error detected concerned non-compliance with eligibility conditions.
The Court has assessed that the control systems established under the EFF ensure the overall regularity of payments only to a limited extent.
In December 2011, the Court published special annual reports on the 2010 financial year for all 42 agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. joint undertakings) and other EU bodies (in particular the effectiveness of the management of the European Central Bank).
The Court delivered an unqualified opinion on all units audited, with the exception of the European GNSS Agency, as some assets were not included in the accounts and the ENIAC Joint Undertaking, since the financial statements did not contain any financial statements.
Agencies and decentralised EU bodies have been set up by the EU legislator to carry out specific tasks.
Each agency shall have a mandate, management, director, staff and budget.
Agencies operate in many areas such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
11 President Caldeira during the presentation of the 2010 annual report at the plenary session of the European Parliament
12 SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2011 In addition to the annual reports, the Court shall publish, during the year, special reports containing the results of the performance and compliance checks which the Court carries out in respect of the budgetary areas or management matters selected by it.
In selecting and shaping audit tasks, the Court seeks to achieve maximum impact and make the best use of its resources.
In the selection of subjects, the Court takes into account the following factors: the risk to profitability or compliance with legal standards in a given area of income or expenditure; the level of income or expenditure; the time elapsed since a possible prior assessment; the future changes in the legal framework; the political and public interest.
In 2011, the Court adopted 16 special reports on a number of issues, which means an increase compared to the 14 special reports adopted in 2010.
The special reports will be presented in summarised form below in the relevant headings of the financial framework in the EU multiannual budget under the general budget of the European Union for the period 2014-2020.
Special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu or EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 13 Sustainable economic growth is based on growth and employment and covers two issues: competitiveness includes support for research and technological development, the creation of European networks, vocational education and training, the promotion of competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social agenda and the dismantling of nuclear installations.
EU expenditure on growth and jobs for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2% of the total budget, of which almost two thirds are R &amp; D. Cohesion for growth and employment mainly concerns cohesion policy implemented in the form of funds for specific areas of activity: the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund for the period 2007-2013.
The Commission and the Member States shall use the resources under shared management.
The EU budget for cohesion 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 344.4 billion (35.7% of the total EU budget).
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the effectiveness of the SME Guarantee Facility (Special Report No 4/2011) from the point of view of its conception and planning and management of related operations and their achievements.
The SME Guarantee Facility (SMEG) is a financial instrument managed on behalf of the European Commission by the European Investment Fund. This instrument provides financial intermediaries with guarantees or guarantees for loans granted by financial institutions to SMEs in order to increase the availability of debt financing. o Effectiveness of tourism projects co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (EFERE) (Special Report No 6/2011) with regard to expected results, their sustainability, European added value and project concept.
The audit was based on a wide-ranging study of projects in the new Member States and 26 regions.
During the period 2000-2006, EUR 4.6 billion was allocated from the ERDF to in-kind investments in tourism projects; projects are selected and managed by managing authorities in the Member States.
14 on The effectiveness of e-government projects financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report No 9/2011), with particular reference to the 2000-2006 programming period and four Member States: Spain, France, Italy and Poland.
The audit assessed whether the co-financed projects were selected on the basis of specific needs, whether they were carried out according to the plan and whether they were adequate and sustainable.
ERDF funding to support the information society of EUR 6,7 billion aimed at developing new safe technologies, developing infrastructure and linking regions through broadband. on The effectiveness of State aid management by the Commission (Special Report No 15/2011).
The audit examined whether the procedures and systems ensured that the Commission would consider all relevant State aid cases, that the cases would be dealt with effectively and within the time limits set and that the Commission would be able to monitor the effects of State aid control.
The Commission's task is to ensure that State aid granted by Member States is compatible with the internal market of the European Union.
Member States must notify the Commission of State aid measures and obtain the Commission's approval before granting State aid. about the implementation of EU financial assistance for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia (Special Report No 16/2011) in order to assess whether nuclear decommissioning programmes have been developed in accordance with the needs of whether they have been implemented in accordance with the plan and whether the liability and management structures have been developed in such a way as to ensure the effective use of EU funds.
Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia committed to premature closure and subsequent closure of eight nuclear reactors which cannot be re-processed in the framework of accession negotiations with the EU.
In view of the exceptional burden, between 1999 and 2013, the EU committed EUR 2.9 billion to three national programmes.
The EU has a strong political responsibility in agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 is EUR 413.1 billion, or 42.3% of the total.
Three quarters of the expenditure concern direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF) under the strongest pillar of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
More than one fifth of expenditure comes from EU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second pillar of the CAP.
Agriculture and rural development shall be managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the single payment scheme under the common agricultural policy (Special Report No 5/2011) on the single payment scheme in: ic h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
The report shall assess whether the agri-environment policy is designed and supervised in such a way as to bring significant environmental benefits, whether farmers receive sufficient support through appropriate guidance and appropriate amounts of aid and whether the management of the agri-environment policy takes into account specific environmental needs.
The aim of agri-environmental policy is to meet the growing demand for environmental services by encouraging farmers to introduce or maintain environmentally compatible production practices.
This area is subject to joint management by the Commission and the Member States. to recover undue payments under the common agricultural policy (special report No 8/2011) in order to assess the effectiveness of recovery systems for identified claims established and managed by Member States.
This audit examined whether Member States correctly register and process claims, whether Member States' actions to recover identified undue payments were successful, whether Member States were taking appropriate action to withdraw irrecoverable claims, and whether the Commission's supervision and supervision were effective.
The European Union spends around EUR 55 billion per year on agriculture and rural development and some of the funds are wrongly paid due to incorrect or incorrect proposals15.
16 on The effectiveness of the School Milk and School Fruit schemes (Special Report No 10/2011) to assess whether EU aid has a direct impact on beneficiaries' consumption and whether these schemes are suitable for achieving the intended educational effect and impact on future eating habits.
The aim of these EU programmes is to encourage healthy nutrition for children through the consumption of dairy products and fruit and vegetables and to contribute to improving the market conditions of these products.
The EU currently allocates EUR 180 million per year to these two programmes. o Is it possible to develop and manage a system of geographical indications to be effective? (Special Report No 11/2011).
This audit assessed the reliability of the control system, the attractiveness of the system for producers and their reputation among consumers.
The Union system of geographical indications shall aim to protect the names of products in respect of which there is a link between their characteristics and the geographical area from which they originate.
This programme creates economic opportunities for farmers and food producers and can have a positive impact on the rural economy in EU regions. on the effectiveness of EU action to adapt fishing capacity of fishing fleets to existing fishing opportunities (Special Report No 12/2011).
The audit examined whether there was a clear framework for reducing fleet capacity and whether specific measures were clearly identified and implemented.
The study was carried out in the Commission and in Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Poland, Portugal and the United Kingdom.
The objective of the EU Common Fisheries Policy is to promote sustainable fisheries by achieving a balance between fish stocks and the fishing fleet in order to avoid overfishing of these stocks.
Overcapacity of the fishing fleet has been a problem for many years which threatens both the sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fisheries sector.
The European Fisheries Fund has EUR 4.3 billion for the programming period 2007-2013.
17 ADOPTION OF THE OVERVIEW OF 5/2011 OPERATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM: PRODUCTION OF BETTER FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT This performance review concerned sound financial management of payments under the single payment scheme, which is currently used in 17 out of the 27 EU Member States.
The expenditure related to this programme amounted to around €28,8 billion in 2009.
The introduction of the single payment scheme was a key element of the reform of the EU's common agricultural policy in 2003.
The aim of this programme was to encourage farmers to respond better to market demand and to provide income support for them.
The reform disbanded the links between support and production (including separation of production from production at the same time).
Instead, farmers must have agricultural land eligible for aid and payment entitlements.
Since 2006, the Court has carried out a number of checks on the procedures laid down by the Commission and the Member States to ensure the accuracy of payment entitlements and the regularity of payments to farmers.
These checks covered all 17 Member States applying the scheme; the results of these checks have been taken into account in the 2006 and 2007 annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget.
On the basis of these results, the Court decided to carry out an economic audit which focused on the following aspects: beneficiaries of the scheme, access to single payments and the definition of eligible areas; the contribution of the scheme to the objectives of income support to farmers and the maintenance of agricultural land in good agricultural and environmental condition; the concrete consequences of applying different models of implementation of the scheme.
Verification visits were carried out in 2009 and 2010 at the Commission and in France, Italy and the United Kingdom.
Special Report No 5/2011 states that the single payment scheme has contributed to two main objectives of the common agricultural policy: farmers have been encouraged to respond better to market demand and the incomes of the agricultural sector as a whole have been supported.
However, in general terms, the implementation of the scheme has revealed a number of questionable features concerning the definition of beneficiaries of this policy, the nature of eligible parcels and activities, the impact of the scheme on the environment, the distribution of aid between Member States and within Member States and the specific impact of the historical and regional model.
18 The Court recommends in its report that farm payments should be better granted to active farmers and not be covered by aid for parcels and non-agricultural activities which do not contribute to increasing the productivity of agriculture or to maintaining the ecological value of land.
In addition, the Court recommends that the level of the single payment should take account of environmental costs and other externalities and that the distribution of aid between farmers should be more balanced.
The calculation of operational payments should be based on current management conditions.
The audit was carried out by a multidisciplinary team consisting of eight controllers in Chamber I. The audit work provided further information not only on the concept of non-production payment but also on the impact of the conversion process from the previous production-related support system on the current system.
According to Sven Kolling's team leader, the examination of the various models and options existing under the single payment scheme in order to implement the scheme together with national and regional administrative strategies and their impact on the cost-effectiveness and effectiveness of the premium poses a particular challenge.
Verification visits to final beneficiaries and on-the-spot checks on holdings have proved necessary to obtain evidence in support of findings and conclusions.
Many of the Court's recommendations are reflected in the Commission's proposals for the reform of the common agricultural policy after 2013 (at the time of drawing up this report in discussion), including the definition of an active farmer and non-agricultural activity in specific areas, the distribution of premium payments among beneficiaries, the reduction of the number of models for the implementation of the single payment scheme and the better integration of environmental externalities in the calculation of the single payment.
left-to-right audit team: (first row) Heike Walz, member of the Court of Justice Michel Cretin, Aurelia Petliza, (second row) Pietro Puricella, Dirk Pauwels, Sven Kolling, Sylvain Lehnhard
EU AS A GENERAL PARTNER 19 EU action in the field of external relations is aimed at: extending, ensuring stability, security and prosperity in the neighbourhood, actively promoting sustainable development at international level, supporting global political governance in and ensuring strategic and civil security.
The EU has committed €55.9 billion to these objectives for 2007-2013, or 5.7% of planned expenditure.
The Commission shall mainly manage expenditure directly through its central services or delegations.
Some support measures will also be managed jointly with international organisations.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the defocusing of the management of external aid between the Commission's central services and its delegations has contributed to better making the aid available?
(Special Report No 1/2011).
The aim of the audit was to analyse administrative procedures and their impact on faster delivery and improvement of the quality of aid and to establish stable financial procedures.
The EU is the largest donor of development aid in the world, with a significant proportion of this assistance (€8.4 billion in 2009) being managed by the Commission under its governance system, which has been delegated since 2002 to representatives of the Commission in partner countries.
Between 2005 and 2009, EuropeAid committed around EUR 4 billion by UN organisations.
The EU may allocate funds as the only donor or together with other donors, as a contribution to trust funds, without allocating funds for specific actions or objectives, or as a contribution to the general budget of the UN organisation. on The effectiveness of EU assistance in enhancing Croatia's capacity to manage post-accession measures (Special Report No 14/2011) to assess the Commission's planning of assistance and to achieve the expected results of projects financed by EU funds.
The aim of EU pre-accession assistance is to assist candidate countries in building administrative capacity to prepare them for the management of more EU assistance to which they will be entitled as Member States.
EU assistance to Croatia has been EUR 150 million per year since 2007.
The budget of the European Union shall be financed mainly by own resources and other revenue.
Traditional own resources in particular customs duties of around 12% and VAT own resources represent a further 12% of total revenue.
Most of the EU's own resources (70%) come from gross national income-based own resources, so that the budget is always balanced.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the management of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) (Special Report No 2/2011) evaluating the measures taken to implement the recommendations of the previous Special Report No 1/2005 of the Court on this matter.
The starting point of the audit was the question whether OLAF has now transferred the priority of its activities to its investigative function and whether its investigations are more effective, as demonstrated by the effectiveness of its investigative work and whether the role of the Supervisory Committee has been clarified.
OLAF's task is to combat fraud and other illegal activities to the detriment of the EU budget.
The Authority is attached to the Commission but has full independence in conducting investigations and employs around 500 employees and its annual expenditure amounts to around EUR 50 million.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: on whether the control of the customs procedure 42 can prevent VAT evasion? (Special Report No 13/2011) The Court examined whether there was a sound legal framework to combat VAT evasion under the customs procedure. 42
It was checked in Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Austria, Slovenia and Sweden.
Customs procedure 42 is the mechanism used by an EU importer to obtain a VAT exemption.
The procedure shall apply where goods imported from outside the EU into another Member State are transported to another Member State.
In such cases, VAT is due in the Member State of destination.
TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT in 2011, the Court contributes to improving the EU's financial management of proposals for new or amended legislation with financial implications.
These opinions are issued at the request of other EU institutions and are used by legislative bodies in the framework of the work of the European Parliament and the Council.
The Court may also issue documents on its own initiative on other matters.
In 2011, the Court adopted seven opinions: o 1/2011: Proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund for the European External Action Service for the 2/2011: Financial rules of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking 3/2011: Proposal for a Financial Regulation for the European Schools o4/2011: Commission Green Paper on the modernisation of European public procurement policy o 5/2011: Proposal for a Council Regulation (Euratom) laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the European Atomic Energy Community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013) by 66/2011: Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 on investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 Opinion 7/2011 concerned proposals for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down common rules on cohesion expenditure which may cover up to 45% of the total EU expenditure for the period 2014-2020.
The contribution of the EU budget to the Europe 2020 objectives therefore depends to a large extent on the cost-effective, efficient and effective use of these resources.
This will also have an impact on the credibility and legitimacy of EU action.
The EU continues to face the challenge of achieving good results through a system of allocation between Member States, which is a disguised objective.
Effective monitoring and enforcement of responsibility by the Commission would help Member States to make effective use of these measures.
Opinions are available in all official EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu.
22 THE COURT'S INFLUENCE PAPIER: THE ASSESSMENT OF THE FORMER FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CRISIS WITH REGARD TO PUBLIC ACCOUNTING AND PUBLIC FINANCIAL CONTROL IN THE EU OR THE COURT'S ROLE The ongoing global financial and economic crisis had far-reaching consequences for the European Union.
In order to deal with the crisis, the EU has taken action to ensure the long-term sustainability of the financial sector, to promote economic recovery and growth, to provide financial assistance to Member States and to strengthen coordination of financial and economic policies between Member States.
In addition, these measures have a decisive impact on the use in the Union of public funds, i.e. taxpayers' money for EU citizens.
Changes in the regulatory structure of the Union pose new challenges in terms of accountability, transparency and public financial control.
The Court considers that the implementation of these new measures is in line with the principle that, whenever the use of public funds is concerned, appropriate rules should be laid down for transparency, public responsibility and financial control.
Therefore, on 19 May 2011, the Court adopted a position on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public responsibility and public control in the EU and on the role of the Court.
In that document, the Court stated that, where possible, it would include new supervisory authorities, support mechanisms with EU budgetary guarantees and where possible, in its audits of the Commission's activities in the context of the European Semester.
The Court considers that the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism should provide for the form of external financial control by public authorities.
Finally, the Court concludes that, in many cases, matters of responsibility and transparency must be considered by the relevant EU institutions, in particular by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Offices (ORCBs) mainly in the following bodies: the ORC Contact Committee of EU Member States; the ORC Network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; international organisations for the control of public finances, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Offices (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
THE CONTACT COMMITTEE In accordance with the Treaty on European Union, the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies shall cooperate with full confidence in maintaining their independence.
The Court is actively working with the CCCs of the EU Member States within the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee shall meet once a year for EU-ORKB presidents and for the Court.
The Contact Committee shall provide a forum for cooperation and exchange of expertise and experience in the control of EU funds and other EU issues.
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2011, the Court acted as Chairman of the Contact Committee, continued to provide administrative assistance and actively participated in various working groups and networks.
The annual meeting of the Contact Committee in 2011 was held at the Court's premises on 13 and 14 October 2011.
The meeting focused on a seminar on the impact of the European Semester and other recent developments in EU economic governance on EU supervisory authorities and the Court.
In this context, the issues of regulation and supervision of financial systems and financial institutions, state aid to the financial sector and the assessment of mechanisms for responding to the euro crisis have been addressed.
The Contact Commission has adopted a statement addressed to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission and the parliaments and governments of the EU Member States.
In addition, the Contact Committee adopted a resolution in order to take into account the call of the ORKB of the euro area countries for adequate external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
The declaration and resolution are available on the website of the Contact Committee (www.contactcommittee.eu).
23 Main speakers of the 2011 meeting of the Contact Committee: Commissioner Olli Rehn, Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Room and Vice-President of the ECB Vítor Constâncio together with the President of the Court of Auditors Vítor Caldeira (third from the left).
24 DECLARATION ON THE IMPACT OF THE EUROPEAN SMESTER AND OTHER FUTURE DEVELOPMENT IN THE EU ECONOMIC POLICY SUBMISSION TO THE HIGHEST AUDIT AUTHORITIES OF THE ACCOUNTS OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN COURT OF ACCOUNT. IN THIS CONTACT COMMITTEE OF 14 OCTOBER 2011 A DECLARATION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PUBLIC MEASURES AND THE GROUNDS FOR COOPERATION OF THE FUTURE CONTACT COMMITTEE is convinced that whenever public funds are used, the following principles should be respected: sufficient transparency in the form of reliable and timely information (including national statistics) regarding the current or planned use of public funds and the risks involved; appropriate responsibility, with a public review of the measures and the persons responsible for managing the processes being carried out; adequate financial control in order to ensure adequate transparency.
In order to ensure an effective response to the economic and financial crisis and its impact on the financial control of the EU and the Court of Auditors, they will, as far as possible and as part of their tasks, consider adapting their control activities to the new framework conditions.
In some cases, this process has already started by introducing new and updated control tasks.
25 Further development of cooperation between the EU OPCW and the EU's growing link between economies clearly highlights the value of a common approach that can be achieved through close cooperation within the Contact Committee.
This includes, inter alia, the co-operation of learning from the latest audit results and their implications as a way of collecting and exchanging knowledge; the identification and dissemination of current best practices in analysing new (and existing) rules; the identification of gaps in public control and possible new audit tasks and new partnerships, and the consideration of how to proceed in this context; the consideration of the development of specific control methods and techniques for ORKB and tools and guidelines for their application; in order to develop these activities, the Contact Committee will use existing networks to carry out audits in the areas of the Europe 2020 strategy and financial policy; it will carry out parallel or coordinated audits and will launch appropriate cooperation activities.
Meeting of the 2011 Contact Committee in Luxembourg on 13 and 14 October 2011
The Court has actively participated in the activities of the MS network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries1.
The organisational structure of the network shall be comparable to that of the contact committee and shall include regular meetings of the Chairpersons of the ORKB and liaison officers and working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel controls.
The main objective is to support the use of control methods and procedures in line with EU international standards and best practices.
The meeting of the network presidents was held in Istanbul on 8 and 9 March 2011.
The Court of Auditors in Turkey and the European Court of Auditors held a joint Presidency at this meeting which led to the adoption of the Istanbul Agreement, including the work programme for future actions to be implemented with the active support of the European Court of Auditors, the SIGMA and EU-ORKB representatives.
OTHER FORMS OF COOPERATION In 2011, the European Court of Auditors, with the participation of the ORKB of Austria and Finland, carried out a peer review of the Norwegian Court of Auditors.
The report was published in June 2011.
The Court continued its active participation and participation in INTOSAI and EUROSAI activities.
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of INTOSAI, it has actively participated in the sub-committees on technical standards for different types of examinations.
In 2011, these subcommittees started implementing their new work plans, focusing on the harmonisation of the ISSAI framework and the dissemination of standards and guidelines, following the approval by the XX Congress of Incosai in November 2010 of a comprehensive set of international standards (ISSAI).
In addition, the Court has contributed to the subcommittee on promoting best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews.
Moreover, since 2008, the Court has chaired the INTOSAI Working Group on Audit and Control of Civil Protection Assistance.
An important objective of this working group is to develop guidelines on responsibility for civil protection assistance and to identify and disseminate best practices, focusing on actions aimed at stakeholders ( multilateral bodies, relief organisations, governments, private controllers).
1 In February 2012, the network included five candidate countries (Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro and Turkey) and three potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia).
As regards EUROSAI, the Court is now more involved as it will be a member of the Bureau for the next six years.
The Court actively participated in the VIIIth EUROSAI Congress (from 30 May to 2 June 2011), which focused on challenges, demands and competences of public administration and the role of ORB, as well as on the assessment of independent regulatory agencies by ORB.
A declaration was adopted which strengthened the independence of the ORKB.
In December 2011, joint efforts by the INTOSAI Community and its regional working groups to strengthen ORB independence and recognition of the Lima and Mexico Declaration reached a summit in the adoption of the resolution • Promotion of effective, accountable, effective and transparent public administration by strengthening the highest control bodies by the United Nations General Assembly 27.
On 15 November 2011, the Court of Justice delivered its judgment in Case C-539/09 Commission v Federal Republic of Germany on the control powers of the European Court of Auditors in respect of VAT own resources.
This is due to the refusal of the European Court of Auditors to authorise in 2006 checks on Member States' administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 in Germany.
In preparing Special Report No 8/2007, the Court decided to carry out audits in eight Member States, including Germany.
The German authorities objected to the Court's right to carry out the audit.
The German Government has stated that cooperation between the administrative authorities of the Member States referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 has no direct link with EU revenue since value added tax must be distinguished from national tax and therefore VAT.
The latter are determined on the basis of a number of calculations and represent a relatively small proportion of the amounts charged by the Member States as VAT.
The Court strongly rejected the argument of the German Government, which is based on the strict contrast between Member States' VAT revenues and the Union's own resources in the field of VAT.
On the basis of the arguments put forward by the Commission, the European Parliament and the European Court of Auditors stressed the dependence of VAT own resources on Member States' revenue.
The Court of Justice confirmed that the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 on administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax included the establishment of mechanisms for cooperation between Member States which would enable them to combat VAT evasion and the application of value added tax more effectively.
This also affects the availability of VAT own resources for the EU budget.
Where cooperation between national authorities is effective and in accordance with the Regulation, it may contribute to reducing fraud and the effective collection of VAT in the Member States and to maintaining the VAT own resources at the level that they must have in accordance with the various relevant EU legislation and thus to maintaining the overall balance of own resources.
The Court found that the Court of Auditors was entitled to carry out a planned audit in connection with administrative cooperation in the field of VAT, since it referred to the EU's revenue from the point of view of legality and sound financial management and was therefore directly linked to the powers conferred on the Court of Auditors by the Treaty.
In Case C-539/09, for the first time, the Court had to clearly define the scope of the Court's audit powers.
The judgment of the Court of Justice is valuable and encouraging as it clarifies and strengthens the powers of the institutions to carry out checks on the Member States.
In 2010, the Court awarded for the first time the award for research work in the field of public sector audit in order to establish contacts with universities and promote the development of public control in Europe.
This first award was an expression of the memory of Jesús Lázaro Cuenca, former director of the Court, who for many years contributed to the development of methods and methods of control of the institution.
The prizes for the winners of the Lázaro Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo Prize were awarded by the President of the Court of Vítor Caldeira and the selection panel for the public ceremony held in Luxembourg on 5 July 2011.
Both winners presented their scientific opinions at an academic meeting: Ms Sara Belleil: Woodhouse Audit des NG humanitaires: entre importation et approach.
José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo: jo: The control of public administration and the fight against corruption: Special reference to the Court of Audit and General Audit of the state administration.
29 The European Court of Auditors was deeply concerned about Sarah Belleil's premature death on 30 November 2011 and wishes to appreciate the quality and importance of her work.
31 OUR MANAGEMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIES FOR 2009-2012 In recent years, the Court has launched an internal reform process.
This includes developing its first strategy for 2009-20122 to achieve the following general objectives: to maximise the overall impact of controls; to increase efficiency through the best use of resources.
A number of priority actions foreseen in the strategy have already been completed. The remaining actions will be published in 2012 in 2 and in 2009 to 2011 on the www.eca.europa.eu website. The main achievements achieved in 2011 include: an increase in the number of special reports; an average of 16 special reports for the year were published in 2009-2011, which exceeded the objective of 12-15 annual reports; significant contributions to the reform of the EU budget; the launch of regular reports on previous arrangements, including a general follow-up report to be taken for the first time in 2012; renewed audit strategies and guidelines; an increasing focus on basic activities by transferring staff from support services to the audit service; a publication of a document setting out the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public responsibility and financial control in the EU and the role of the Court.
In 2008, the Court strengthened the audit management framework by adopting ethical guidelines based on the obligations and the INTOSAI Code of Conduct and the international standard of quality control within the ORB3.
In this context, the Court has established a procedure ensuring, on an annual basis, sufficient assurance that its auditors meet the relevant ethical requirements.
Compliance with the values set out in the ethical guidelines, such as impartiality, objectivity, loyalty and professional secrecy, ensures that the Court's employees act in the public interest without external pressure and without affecting their personal or financial interests.
The Court's professional framework promotes the reliability of the information provided to it by the addressees.
3 ISSAI 30 and ISSAI 40.
32 In 2011, work was started on another strategy based on the successes of the current strategy, which ended in 2012.
The Court takes the opportunity to adapt to developments in the EU and in the audit field and to take account of the needs and expectations of the recipients.
Members of the European Court of Auditors
Since 2008, the Court has progressively developed a set of key performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform management of progress towards the 2009-2012 targets; to support the decision-making process; to provide information on the performance of the addressees.
These indicators shall measure the basic parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, with particular regard to the position of the main addressees and the effectiveness and effectiveness of its use of resources.
2011 is the second year in which all indicators were available.
The Court continues to find the results of its key performance indicators encouraging, in particular as regards the quality and impact of its audit work.
In addition, indicators clearly identify the areas where progress needs to be made and the problems that need to be addressed in order to achieve future productivity growth.
2010 4.2 4.0 ≥ 4.2 3.7 3.7 ≥ 3.7 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by the main objective for 2011.Assignment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by bodies audited The result is that the main bodies responsible for the Court's reports have found them to be good on average.
In particular, the clarity and usefulness of the reports and the professionalism of the Court's auditors shall be assessed.
34 EXPERT CONTROLS Two external bodies reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports published in 2011.
The auditors assessed the four special reports and the annual reports on the general budget and the EDF for 2010.
They assessed the quality of the various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale with a significant impact on them? (1) to an extremely high quality. (4)
2010 3.0 2.8 ≥ 3.0 Aim for 2011. Review of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by external experts Results show that the auditors assess the quality of the Court's 2011 reports satisfactorily.
The reviews have provided valuable information and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports.
In its recommendations, the Court contributes to improving financial management.
This indicator is based on the recommendations contained in the annual and special reports published in 2011.
In 2010, 90 % 93% ≥ 90 % of the 2011 target. The percentage of audit recommendations adopted by the audited entity in 2011 started systematic monitoring of the implementation of the recommendations by the audited entities.
From 2012 onwards, the Court will have the opportunity to report on the practical implementation and improvement of the recommendations.
The Court shall assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the use of resources, depending on the extent to which it is able to report and audit reports in good time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff.
THE FUTURE OF THE REPORTS The Court shall endeavour to adopt all audit reports within the time limits set.
With regard to annual reports and special annual reports, the time limits laid down in the provisions should be respected.
In the case of special reports for which there is no publication date specified in the legislation, the planned date of adoption shall be deemed to be the scale of punctuality.
35 4 2010 90 % number of reports adopted at 80 % 2011 83 % 90 % 75 % 90 % Overall, in 2011 the Court did not fully achieve its objectives.
The very high target for the number of reports was not achieved, while the overall target of 12-15 special reports per year exceeded and the results were higher than in 2010.
All annual reports and, with one exception, all special annual reports have been adopted in accordance with the timetable and published in accordance with the timetable.
4 The targets for these indicators have been changed from 100% (2008-2010) to 90 % to take account of unexpected developments.
The audit activities shall contain detailed information on the detailed control arrangements and shall be drawn up following inspection visits in the Member States or in the Commission.
The Court uses them to confirm the accuracy of its findings by the assessment bodies, which is an important step in the audit process.
The Court has already stated that there is a significant need to improve the timeliness of the audit reports; the objective to be achieved by the end of 2012 is to create 80% of the audit messages within two months of the verification visit.
2010 2011 Percentage of control notifications made at 54 % 58 % Objective 20114 The number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned The target for 2011 80 % by 2012. The Court has improved the timeliness of the audit notifications in 2011, but this objective has not yet been met.
Significant progress has been made over the last three years (only 27% of audit communications were prepared in 2008) and the Court will continue to improve its performance.
36 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court seeks to obtain a full opinion from an independent auditor on the annual accounts and the use of resources, as well as from the European Parliament on the basis of a positive opinion of the Council.
In line with the guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court seeks to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training (without language courses).
GRAD FOR THE FUTURE OF STAFF Internal interview on employee satisfaction conducted in 2009 in general 86% of the Court's employees were satisfied with their work, with an overall level of satisfaction of 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4, with each value above 2.5 indicating overall satisfaction.
The Court seeks to maintain or improve this outcome if similar consultations were carried out in 2012.
The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its specialised services.
These services shall provide technical and logistical knowledge enabling the Court to recruit, maintain and motivate its staff and develop their professional skills; to disseminate the results of controls in all official EU languages; to make the best use of information technologies; to manage budget and maintain infrastructure; to carry out audit visits to obtain evidence on-the-spot in the countries where EU funds are collected and used.
37 STAFF AWARD OF STAFF The most important capital of the Court is its employees.
At 31 December 2010, the Court's staff was 887 employees (officials and temporary staff but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of which 564 operate in the control chambers (including 123 staff in the members' office), 148 in the Translation Directorate in, 148 in the administrative support services and 27 in the President's offices.
In 2011, in view of the objective of making the best use of resources, all departments re-examined and implemented the capacity to increase efficiency by simplifying procedures.
As far as possible, jobs released due to productivity gains outside the scope of control have been transferred to the control service, which has contributed to more than half of the number of posts in the control area since 2008 by 12.6%.
Distribution of the Court's posts on 31 December 2008 2011 Audit 501 525 557 557 564 Translation 163 163 151 148 Administration 173 171 157 148 Service of the President 20 21 24 27 Total 857 880 889 887
38 EMPLOYMENT The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional context and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's results.
The Court's employment policy is consistent with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
The general selection procedures for the Court are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
In addition, the Court establishes a policy of equal opportunities within its staff policy and in the case of staff recruitment, as do other EU institutions.
Following a steady increase in women's participation over the years, the Court has achieved a balanced participation of women and men among its employees.
In 2011, the Court recruited 75 staff: 23 officials, 24 temporary staff and 28 contract staff.
In particular, the Court has managed to recruit new workers for the posts of auditors.
On 31 December 2011, 25 job vacancies were much less than in 2010 (44).
This is the first time that job vacancies fell below 3%.
2001 2011 Men 54% 50% Women 46% 50 % The following graph shows the percentage of men and women broken down as at 31 December 2011.
Of the 65 directors and heads of departments, 18 (28%) are women, reflecting the development of recent years.
However, most of them work in the Translation Directorate in administrative and administrative departments.
After the last recruitment waves, 45% of employees in grade AD5-AD8 are women.
PROFIL ALTERS According to the age profile of active staff on 31 December 2010, 60% of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger.
Ages 20-24 0.00% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 23 of 65 directors and heads of departments are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, in the next five to ten years a major renewal will take place in senior management positions.
39 3.8% 16.3% 20.7% 19,2% 17.5% 11.5 % 7,6% 3,4 % EDUCATION PROFESSIONAL The controller's profession requires continuous training to keep up with new developments and acquire new skills.
In 2011, the Court's staff completed an average of 9.3 days of vocational training.
Language courses accounted for 54% of the total number of training days (compared with 57% in 2010).
In addition to language courses, the auditors completed 6.1 days of vocational training in 2011 and thus achieved an important objective of the institution.
A substantive improvement in training was introduced in 2011 and new courses were developed to adapt to the audit priorities.
In addition, the Court has improved the system for the management of training activities.
TRANSLATION TRANSLATION is an important activity in support of control, enabling the Court to carry out its mission and to achieve its communication objectives.
In 2011, the volume of translations was comparable to that of work in 2010.
More than 99% of translation services were completed on time.
In 2011, further posts and staff were transferred from the Translation Directorate to the Audit Service.
The Directorate for Translation at the Court also provided valuable linguistic support for mission controllers and at subsequent stages of drawing up audit reports.
The Translation Directorate also supported the Contact Committee, the INTOSAI Working Groups and provided other specific needs related to the Court's audit activities.
In addition, the Court's Translation Directorate actively participated in interinstitutional and international bodies.
40 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology (IT) plays a key role in achieving the overall objectives of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy.
In 2011, the Court took the following steps: to increase investment in knowledge management by launching a new version of the development support instrument (the "Assyst2" project of the recent cooperation platform); to actively pursue efforts to improve internal processes through electronic working processes in areas such as business travel management and training; and electronic archiving of personnel documentation to continuously increase efficiency and efficiency; to support mobility through the use of smartphones and laptop computers; and to launch an extranet project, which will also play a key role in facilitating electronic exchange with the Court's numerous partners (including audited entities, budgetary authorities, new employees, suppliers).
These progress has been made while increasing operational security and emergency preparedness in order to ensure the necessary availability and quality of all IT services provided by the Court.
ADMINISTRATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE The Directorate for Finance and Support Services in the field of Agriculture and Rural Development shall aim to provide the Court's auditors with effective, effective and timely support and provide the necessary funding, internal control and accounting mechanisms to support all the Court's activities.
In 2011, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to release resources for the transfer to the audit service.
On the basis of an agreement concluded with the budgetary authorities (Parliament and Council) on the financing of building K3 in 2011, the main objective was to create a second building extending to the main building of the Court.
The construction work was completed in 2011 and the construction of the raw material was stabilised at the end of the year.
Significant progress has been made in interior design.
The time and budget framework of the construction project shall be respected.
The Court is due to take over the building at the end of 2012 and removals will take place in the first quarter of 2013.
The analysis carried out in 2009 and 2010 led the Court to the conclusion that it is best to achieve its safety objectives and the most effective and cost-effective risk management if reception and security services are provided internally.
This was done in April 2011 by replacing an external security contractor with a small team of contract staff.
The annual costs will be more than EUR 0.5 million lower in 2012 than in 2009.
CONTROL During the Court's audit work, auditors must go to the Member States and to other beneficiaries of EU funds as well as to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations.
The purpose of these audit visits is to obtain direct evidence of examination.
These visits normally apply to central and local authorities involved in the approval, management and payment of EU funds and to final beneficiaries.
In the EU, inspection visits are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities of the Member State where the visit was carried out.
The teams of controllers usually consist of two to three controllers and the duration of the examination trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of examination and the distance.
Audit in 2011 34 33 32 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 In 2011, the Court carried out a total of 379 audit visits5 in the Member States and 36 outside the EU for audits concerning annual reports and specific annual reports and selected audit tasks.
A similar number of audit visits were carried out by EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
5 This corresponds to the number of Member States and beneficiary countries visited for each control task.
In 2010, this figure was 376.
30 41 25 19 19 17 Check-in visits to the EU 15 Total 343 12 12 11 11 11 11 Check-out visits outside the EU 10 10 Total 36 99 555 44322 3222211111111111111111111111111111111111111 Spain Spain United Kingdom Germany Italy France Belgium Poland Portugal Greece Czech Republic Netherlands Austria Hungary Finland Ireland Romania Denmark Sweden Latvia Slovenia Luxembourg Slovakia Bulgaria Malta Switzerland Serbia Burkina Faso Israel Malawi Tanzania Albania Barbados Benin Cameroon Chad Congo Croatia East Timor Georgia Guyana Kazakhstan Mozambique Nicaragua Nigeria Nigeria Norway Philippines Senegal Tunisia Vietnam Zambia
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court shall be financed by the general budget of the EU.
Its budget accounts for approximately 0.1% of total EU expenditure and less than 2% of total administrative expenditure.
IMPLEMENTATION OF BUDGET 2011 43 FINANCIAL YEAR 2011 Final appropriations Use of appropriations in % (debts/debts) Payments (EUR 1 000) Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10.. Members of the institution 12. Officials and temporary staff 14.. Other human resources and services 162. service travel Title 1 Total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various administrative expenditure 12 817 87 382 3 820 2 827 1 530 108 376 5 913 4 702 691 265 570 733 12 874 121 250 13 411 95 416 4 205 3 652 2 485 119 169 12 952 87 624 3 864 3 417 2 115 109 972 97% 92% 92% 94% 85% 92% 98 100% 41% 88% 97% 93% 93% 93% 16, 163, 165.
44 In 2011, the total budget available was 93%.
For Title 1 this indicator is 92%, with the lowest in Chapter 16 (Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution) (85%).
For Title 2, the average performance rate is 97%.
The amount of payments under Chapter 20 (building) depends on the construction work of building K3.
The third financial tranche of EUR 7 million for this project was entered in the 2011 budget and was committed and partly paid in 2011.
The remaining part of the budget for building K3 was transferred to 2012 and is intended to finance contracts awarded to construction companies by the project manager on behalf of the Court.
This appropriation will be used as defined by the Court in its proposal to the European Parliament and the Council in 2008.
The total cost of building K3 is estimated at EUR 79 million to be financed over the next five years: EUR 55 million in 2009; EUR 11 million in 2010; EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 3 million in 2012 and 2013.
The 2012 budget fell by 1.28% compared to 2011, mainly due to the reduction of the K3 budget.
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the "Budget' and "Budget' policy area and "Budget' and "Budget' policy area in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
46 CONTROL AND INTERNAL RECRUITMENT The task of an internal audit body is to ensure independence and objectivity and provide advisory services in order to increase and improve the added value of the Court's activities.
The Commission shall assist the Court in achieving the objectives of the institutions through a systematic and rigorous approach to assessing and submitting recommendations in order to improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and management procedures.
In carrying out its tasks, the Internal Audit Office shall act in accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, the rules applicable to EU officials and international standards of professional practice for internal audit.
In 2009, the Court's internal audit services were checked and certified in accordance with the international standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE COURT The annual accounts of the European Court of Auditors shall be audited by an independent auditor.
This is a key element of the Court's efforts to ensure that the principles of transparency and accountability are the same as those applied by the Court to the bodies it has carried out.
In 2011, the Court's Internal Audit Service presented reports on: the state of implementation of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy; the implementation of key performance indicators; the creation of a new K3 building of the Court; the use of a trust account for payments to eligible beneficiaries; follow-up to previous recommendations.
The internal audit services fully supported the Court's independent auditor as regards the certification of the Court's annual accounts and the effectiveness of its internal audit procedures.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee shall advise on internal control matters and monitor the related internal control environment in the framework of the institution's risk management procedures.
In 2011, the Internal Audit Committee and Internal Auditors examined the results of internal audit audits, the implementation of action plans having an impact on the internal control environment and the risks associated with the institution's management.
In September 20116 the auditor's opinion on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2010 was published.
47 AUDITAL AUDIT OF THE LONG AUDIT IN 2010 FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR: In our view, the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2010 and the cash flow for the year ending that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of the Council Regulation and the European Union accounting rules.
I, the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and confirm with sufficient assurance that the appropriations for the actions described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures give the necessary guarantees of the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the financial statements and of the appropriate handling of allegations of fraud or fraud.
Such reasonable assurance shall be based on an assessment of the signed and available information, such as the results of the ex post audit, internal auditor's reports and the opinions of the independent auditor of the previous financial years.
Luxembourg, 8 March 2012 Mr Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary-General
The European Court of Auditors shall be an independent external audit body of the European Union established in Luxembourg.
The Court of Auditors shall act as a collegial body consisting of 27 members, each composed of one member per Member State.
Its members shall be appointed by the Council for a term of office of six years after consulting the European Parliament.
Members shall elect a President from among themselves for a period of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
The Court shall be organised in accordance with the chambers to which the members are assigned.
The Chambers shall prepare reports and opinions for adoption by the Court.
The I-IV control chambers cover different areas of revenue and expenditure, while the fifth CEAD chamber is responsible for horizontal issues.
The Comoros shall be assisted by the Directorates of Control.
Since the revision of the Court's Rules of Procedure in 2010, certain categories of Court reports and opinions may be adopted by chambers rather than by the entire College of the Court.
The Management Committee shall be chaired by the Chair and shall be composed of the members of the Chambers and the Secretary-General (responsible for the administrative services and assistance of the Court).
The Committee shall act as coordinator and prepare the Court's decisions on strategic planning and management of results and administrative issues.
Each member shall be responsible for specific tasks, mainly in the field of audit.
Members shall submit audit proposals and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible, to the Chamber and to the Court.
Following adoption of the report, the rapporteur member shall submit it to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties.
Members shall be assisted by their cabinet representatives and a team of auditors appointed for the examination tasks 49.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2011 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2012 in 49 pp. 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693
How to obtain EU publications?Free publications: • at EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at European Union delegations and delegations.
QJ-AA-12-001-DE-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu www.eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorseca ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9
ISSN 1684-0666 European Court of Auditors 2012 Annual Activity Report
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2013 ISBN 978-929241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 © European Union, 2013 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors 2012 Annual Activity Report
The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the control of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the EU, promotes accountability and transparency and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRATION AND INDEPENDENCE OF PROFESSIONALITY MORE EXTERNAL VALUE AND EFFIciency Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level.
preparing appropriate and timely high-quality reports, based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of the addressees and containing relevant and guiding comments.
contribute to the effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and contribute to increasing responsibility for the management of EU funds.
Supporting the spirit of cooperation through effective communication.
5 PAGE 6 PRELIMINATION OF THE PRESIDENT 8 2012 FOR THE 9 WEEKS OF OUR ACTION 9 CONTROL REPORTS AND COMMENTS 30 COOPERATION WITH OTHER MAJOR ACCOUNTING AUTHORITIES 34 OUR MANAGEMENT 35 IN THE COURT'S COLLECTION 36 MEASURING DATA SUPPORTING THE COURT'S ACTIVITIES 44 49 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 52 FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND STATEMENT 53 DECLARATION OF IMPROVEMENTS ON THE INFORMATION 54 35 YEARS IN THE WORK OF THE BETTER EU FUNCTION 6 INTRODUCTION OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome TO THE OPERATIONAL REPORT 2012 OF THE European Court of Auditors!
In 2012, the Court focused on preparing the Union for the post-2013 financial management challenges.
At the beginning of the year, the Court adopted an opinion on certain proposals for regulations concerning the common agricultural policy (CAP), which is the most popular EU policy.
The draft regulation was part of a package of legislative proposals for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
Together with a number of opinions and reports published in 2012, the Court has actively contributed to strengthening the new rules that will be subject to EU revenue and expenditure during this period.
Moreover, in 2012, the Court continued to closely monitor the impact of changes in EU economic governance on public responsibility and financial control.
This year, the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism entered into force and a meeting of the audit committee of this new body, including the representative of the Court, took place at its first meeting.
In December 2012, the Council of the European Union adopted a position on the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism to ensure the supervision of euro area credit institutions and the Court presented its position to EU policy makers on public responsibility and financial control.
Many changes in the EU's economic governance and budget are due to the fact that better political results need to be achieved with lower public resources while at the same time strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability.
In view of its unique competences and views, on the one hand, and the experience of the audit gained over the 35 years of its history and the partnerships established for this purpose, the Court is well prepared to assist the EU in meeting these challenges.
On the basis of the achievements achieved in recent years, the Court aims to maximise the Court's contribution to improving the EU's reporting obligation in 2013-2017.
The farm is now celebrating its 35th anniversary.
Europe has changed dramatically since the Court started working in 1977.
The structure of the Court and the manner in which it is carried out reflect these changes.
With the accession of the new Member States, the transfer of competences to the Union and the creation of many posts at EU level, the scope of the Court's audit has been extended.
The Court also developed as an organ, from nine members and 120 employees in 1977 to 27 members and almost 900 employees in 2012.
This increase enabled the farm to create professional, committed and experienced staff.
2012 was the last year covered by the Court's strategy for 2009-2012.
During this period, the Court noted encouraging results.
According to this annual activity report, the results have been increased, external experts have considered the quality of our reports to be good, and the main institutional addressees consider them useful.
The Commission's level of acceptance of the Court's recommendations remains high and the new Court's monitoring report highlights the positive effects of these recommendations.
The Court can also point to an increase in efficiency in administration and translation, which led to 40 additional staff being able to be employed in the control area at the end of that period.
In order to achieve the 2013-2017 objectives, the Court will prioritise products aimed at improving the EU's reporting obligations and expanding and expanding its partnerships, professionalism and efficiency.
In 2013, the international peer review team will examine the Court's performance control practice and will follow the results of the previous 2008 peer review procedure.
Other key actions to be launched in 2013 include improving the Court's reporting procedures and making better use of our joint funding of knowledge, our expertise and our expertise.
With these and other initiatives, the Court intends to assist the EU in meeting the growing challenges of public responsibility and financial control in the coming years.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 7
8 2012 IN OUR ACTIONS on the annual accounts for the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2011, in which the clarity and content of the information have been improved. about 50 specific annual reports on the various EU agencies, decentralised bodies and agencies for the financial year 2011 on 25 specific reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues. o 9 Opinions on the contribution to budgetary reform, such as the reform of the common agricultural policy and the European Parliament and Council Directive on combating fraud against the financial interests of the European Union in criminal matters.
Our management of the adoption of a new strategy for 2013-2017, which will guide the Court's activities during this period, in order to maximise the Court's contribution to EU public accountability. o Our key performance indicators for 2008-2012 show an improvement in performance; for the first time they measure the contribution of our recommendations that have been implemented. o Further development of staff policy and further transfer of posts to the audit service by increasing the Court's administrative and translation capacity to carry out its mission. o Work in building K3 in the second building extending the Court so that all the Court's staff can be deployed in one place.
9 OUR CONTROL REPORTS AND NOTES The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: the annual audit reports carried out by the Court of Auditors in respect of the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund (EDF); in addition, the special annual reports on the agencies, decentralised bodies and agencies of the EU are published separately; the special reports which may be published at any time during the year, together with the results of selected audits on specific budgetary or management areas; these are mainly performance audits; the opinions on draft legislative acts having an impact on financial management and the statements and positioning documents relating to other matters on the Court's own initiative.
Since 2008, the number of special annual reports and special reports of the Court has increased significantly.
The annual reports have also been developed: more analytical information is currently available, data presentation has been further harmonised to facilitate comparison between sectors and over time and a new chapter on performance issues has been added.
A significant increase in the opinion results from the consultation of the Court on the extensive legislative proposals for the new financial framework (2014-2020).
Number of reports and opinions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 29 37 40 42 50 Special reports 12 18 14 16 25 Opinions and other statements 5 1 6 8 10 TOTAL 48 58 62 68 87 The full version of the reports and opinions is available on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in 22 official EU languages.
10 AUDIT In 2012, while the vast majority of audit work is carried out at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also visit EU institutions, agencies and decentralised bodies, Member States' authorities and other beneficiaries of EU funds (including international organisations such as the United Nations in Switzerland).
Verification visits shall normally apply to central and local authorities involved in the approval, management and payment of EU funds and to final beneficiaries.
In the EU, inspection visits are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities of the Member States covered by the visit.
The teams of controllers usually consist of two to three controllers, and the duration of the examination trip may be several days to two weeks, depending on the type of examination and the distance.
In 2012, the Court's auditors spent 6 816 days in on-the-spot checks in the Member States and 762 from outside the EU, obtaining evidence of the audit of annual reports, specific annual reports and selected audit tasks.
Similarly, they devoted much time to EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 days examiners on site 2012 00 Spain France United Kingdom Poland Italy Germany Greece Romania Portugal Netherlands Czech Republic Repulik Hungary Lithuania Luxembourg Denmark Austria Sweden Slovenia Bulgaria Latvia Finland Ireland Belgium Estonia Slovakia Malta Cyprus Uzbekistan Russia USA Norway Morocco Ukraine Guatemala Turkey Kyrgyzstan Switzerland Senegal Ethiopia Cameroon Serbia Indonesia Egypt Zambia Israel Congo
11 The main conclusions of the 2011 Annual Report on the Financial Statements for 2011 constitute the relevant financial situation of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year in question.
Revenue and commitments were not largely affected by errors.
However, payments were largely affected by errors, with an estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole of 3.9%.
This error rate is comparable to the error rate in 2010, which amounted to 3.7%. o All individually assessed areas of EU expenditure, with the exception of external relations policy areas, external assistance and enlargement, as well as administrative expenditure, are affected by significant errors.
This shows that improvements in the management of EU funds are still necessary. The error rate estimated by the Court in rural development expenditure, environment, fisheries and health (the most defective area of expenditure) was 7.7%.
The error rate for regional policy, energy and transport is estimated to remain high by 6.0%. O In the case of reservations, the Commission increased and the amount recognised by the Commission's Directors-General as being at risk increased from EUR 0.4 billion in 2010 to EUR 2.0 billion in 2011.
This is due to the fact that in certain areas, in particular rural development, cohesion and research, the Commission has recognised the existence of a high risk of error. o Overall, the control systems examined are partially effective in order to ensure the regularity of payments and do not, as far as possible, prevent or detect errors and correct them.
Many cases of failure to check have been identified. The self-assessment carried out by the Commission in relation to its results has led to further development, which was desirable in comparison with previous years.
However, in 2011, the Court's performance checks showed that there is often a lack of analysis of good quality needs, weaknesses in the concept of the programme have a negative impact on the reporting of results and impacts and that the Commission must demonstrate European added value.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2011Most audits carried out by the Court on accounting and compliance control in 2012 were devoted to the implementation of the EU budget for 2011.
The 2011 Annual Report was published on 6 November 2012.
The objective of the annual report is to assist the European Parliament, the Council and citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management and to recommend appropriate improvements by making arrangements and proposals.
The 18th annual statement on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions is the main element of the annual accounts for the financial year 2011.
The annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2011 contains two new chapters containing more targeted results in agriculture and cohesion.
The previous chapter on agriculture and natural resources was replaced by the chapter Agriculture: market support and direct payments and Rural Development, Environment, Agriculture, Agriculture and Health.
In addition, the chapters on regional policy, energy and transport... and employment and social affairs... replace the previous chapter on cohesion, energy and transport.
12 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND 2011 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are financed by EU Member States but managed outside the EU budget and are subject to their own financial rules.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of actions financed by the EFF.
With the European Development Fund (EDF), the European Union is assisting African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and overseas countries and territories (OCTs) in development cooperation under the Cotonou Agreement signed in 2000.
These expenditures aim, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of ACP countries and OCTs into the world economy, to reduce poverty and finally to overcome poverty.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars: development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension.
The Court's 2011 Annual Report on the EDF was published on 6 November 2012 in parallel with the annual report on the EU budget.
The Court found that the EDF accounts for 2011 adequately reflect the financial situation of the EDF and the results of its operations and cash flows.
However, 33% of EDF operations were affected by errors, including an estimated percentage of 5.1 % of error payments.
In 2012, the Court published 50 special annual reports covering mainly the financial year 2011, agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. Joint Undertakings) and other EU bodies.
Agencies and decentralised EU bodies shall be established on the basis of EU legislation to carry out specific tasks.
President Caldeira during the presentation of the 2011 Annual Report at the European Parliament plenary session (November 2012)
SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2012 In addition to the annual reports, the Court shall publish, throughout the year, special reports containing the results of the performance and compliance checks carried out by the Court in respect of the budgetary areas or management issues of its choice.
In selecting and shaping audit tasks, the Court seeks to achieve maximum impact and thus to make the best use of its resources.
In choosing the subject matter, the Court takes into account the following factors: the risk to profitability or compliance with legal standards in the area of income or expenditure; the level of income or expenditure; the time since the audit; the future changes in the legal framework; the political and public interest.
In 2012, the Court adopted 25 special reports covering a wide range of issues.
This represents a significant increase compared to the 16 special reports adopted in 2011 (and 12 in 2008).
All special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu/
The following pages present the topics of the Special Reports adopted in 2012, in the relevant headings of the 2013-2017 Financial Framework on the EU Multi-annual Budget Plan.
14 EU expenditure on sustainable growth covers two areas: competitiveness includes support for research and technological development, the creation of European networks through EU networks, education and training, the promotion of competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social agenda and the dismantling of nuclear installations.
EU expenditure on growth and jobs for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2% of the EU budget, of which almost two thirds are R &amp; D.
Cohesion for growth and jobs mainly concerns cohesion policy implemented by the Funds for specific areas of activity: the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF).
The EU budget for cohesion 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 344.4 billion, or 35.7% of the EU budget.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the Financial Instruments for SMEs co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (N° 2/2012) under this Special Report, the effectiveness and effectiveness of the financial engineering measures co-financed by the ERDF for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods were assessed. The audit concerned sample projects in Germany, Portugal, Slovakia, Hungary and the United Kingdom, as well as analysis of the management, monitoring and information systems of the Commission and the Member States.
The Court found that the effectiveness and effectiveness of the expenditure incurred under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for financial instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) had been violated as the regulatory framework did not provide an adequate basis for the use of different types of financial instruments.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of the EU economy and provide employment, innovation and prosperity.
However, SMEs may not be able to meet their financial needs in the required form and amount.
To support them, the EU uses entrepreneurship and cohesion policy, mainly in the form of assistance and increasingly in the ERDF through financial instruments.
Financial instruments are returnable and renewable instruments.
According to the Commission's figures, the ERDF allocation for financial instruments amounts to EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 10.4 billion respectively for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods.
o Structural Funds in did the Commission respond effectively to shortcomings identified in Member States' management and control systems?
(No 3/2012) The special report examined to what extent the Commission initiated appropriate corrective actions, ensured their timely transposition and ensured sufficient assurance that its actions led to appropriate financial corrections for past irregularities and improvements in the systems in order to avoid recurrence of irregularities.
The audit was carried out mainly on the basis of a review of 40 programmes for which serious deficiencies were identified.
The Court found that, with regard to the shortcomings in Member States' management and control systems, the Commission was quite well able to ensure the correct application of financial corrections, but only to a lesser extent was it assured that its actions had led to improvements in Member States' systems.
Expenditure on the Structural Funds shall be managed by the Commission and the Member States.
Member States shall draw up multiannual programmes which are examined and approved by the Commission and subsequently implemented by the Member States.
If serious shortcomings are detected in Member States' management and control systems, the Commission aims to ensure that irregularities are corrected and systems improved. for the use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund to co-finance transport infrastructure in maritime ports: an effective investment?
The special report assessed the effectiveness of the objectives and results of 27 projects co-financed by the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund for the period 2000-2006 under the transport infrastructure reporting code.
The Court found that investments in seaport infrastructure made under cohesion policy were only effective for 11 out of the 27 projects audited.
Maritime transport is the second most important mode of transport in the EU.
The Commission envisages an increase from 3.8 billion tonnes in 2006 to 5.3 billion tonnes in 2018.
Since 2000, the EU has allocated around €6.2 billion to co-finance maritime port infrastructure from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund.
15 Control of transport expenditure in the EU
16 THE GROWTH OF SUSTAINABLE FINANCIAL GROWTH ON Does supporting infrastructure projects for municipal waste management under structural measures provide effective support to Member States in the implementation of EU waste policy objectives?
(No 20/2012) This special report assesses the results of 26 sampled infrastructure projects, including the implementation of EU waste policy objectives and the implementation of accompanying measures in the eight regions where the infrastructure is located.
The Court found that inadequate implementation of accompanying measures and shortcomings in EU legislation and guidance had an impact on the effectiveness of supporting municipal waste management infrastructure in EU structural actions.
In 2010, every citizen of the 27 EU Member States produced on average about 500 kg of waste, which could lead to negative effects on the environment if they are not properly collected, processed and disposed of.
The EU introduced common standards and objectives in the form of directives on municipal waste management and co-financed waste management infrastructure in certain regions.
Between 2000 and 2013, the EU allocated €10.8 billion to waste management infrastructure. about Cost-effectiveness of investments in energy efficiency under cohesion policy (No 21/2012) in this special report assessed whether the investments in energy efficiency implemented under cohesion policy were cost-effective, examining whether planning and financing created the right conditions for cost-effective investment in energy efficiency and whether energy efficiency projects implemented in public buildings were cost-effective.
The Court found that the average period for the return on EU investment in energy efficiency is over 50 years (in extreme cases up to 150 years), which means that funds for this type of investment could be used more cost-effectively.
The cost of increased energy consumption, fossil fuel depletion and the impact of human action on global climate change is the driving force of a recent EU policy to increase energy efficiency.
Since 2000, under cohesion policy, the European Union has spent almost EUR 5 billion in co-financing energy efficiency measures in the Member States.
(No 23/2012) The special report examines whether the objectives of the project have been achieved, whether the targeting of EU funding was based on sound criteria and whether the results achieved were achieved at the lowest cost for the EU budget.
The Court examined the results of 27 projects aimed at revitalising declining areas with EU co-financing of a total of EUR 231 million and analysed instruments for revitalising declining areas which provide a framework for concrete co-financed actions in Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and the United Kingdom.
(The results of this special report will be published on 18 April 2013)
In recent decades, more and more broken industrial and military areas (so-called partitioning areas) have become available.
Many surfaces are contaminated.
Revitalisation and re-use of wetlands shall be supported through EU structural actions to promote the protection of human health and the environment and to combat rural relocation.
In the period 2000-2013, EU funds for this purpose amounted to a total of EUR 5.7 billion.
o The response of the European Union Solidarity Fund to the Abruzzo earthquake in 2009: the importance and costs of the action (No 24/2012) in this special report assessed whether the actions financed were in line with the EUSF Regulation and whether the construction project Communication (Communications) was well planned and planned and carried out with due regard to the cost savings aspect.
The Court found that other funded projects were eligible, but the CASE project was not in line with the EUSF Regulation.
In addition, weaknesses have been noted in the planning of the CASE project and the provision of savings in its implementation.
The 2009 earthquake, the centre of which is located in the Italian region of Abruzzo, has caused damage of more than EUR 10 billion.
The European Union has supported Italian disaster management by contributing EUR 0.5 billion from its solidarity fund for rescue operations, shelter and temporary schools, as well as the CASE project for building earthquake-safe homes.
Cathedral in Italy, almost four years after the 2009 earthquake o Are there instruments to monitor the effectiveness of spending on older workers under the European Social Fund?
(No 25/2012) This special report examines whether and to what extent Member States and the Commission have developed and implemented appropriate instruments to assess the achievement of the targets for older workers.
Six programmes worth EUR 222 million were selected, covering four Member States: Germany, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
The Court found that neither the Member States nor the Commission were able to demonstrate to what extent actions supported by the ESF actually benefit older workers.
From 2007 to the end of 2013, ESF expenditure to support Member States in the field of employment will amount to over EUR 75 billion, representing around 8% of the total EU budget.
One of the main disadvantaged groups is older workers.
17 Newly built earthquake-resistant residential building in Italian Aquila
18 THE EU'S FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK OF SUPERVISION AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES bears a strong political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 is EUR 413.1 billion, or 42.3% of the EU budget.
Three quarters of the expenditure concern direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF) under the strongest pillar of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
The next fifth part of the expenditure concerns support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), second pillar of the CAP.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine: progress so far (No 7/2012) This special report assessed progress towards one of the main objectives of the reform of the wine sector, namely progress towards a better balance between supply and demand.
The audit focused on actions related to the agricultural premium and the restructuring and conversion of vineyards, which constitute two main expenditure areas and are essential for achieving the objective of achieving a better balance between supply and demand.
The Court found that these two measures were contradictory and that the structural supply surpluses were not significantly reduced.
For a period of three years of application of the grubbing-up measure ( 2008/2009-2010/2011), the EU budget was EUR 1.1 billion.
The restructuring and conversion of EUR 4.2 billion was allocated to the ten-year period up to 2010. Focusing aid on modernisation of agricultural holdings for specific purposes (No 8/2012) in this special report examined whether EU aid for modernisation of agricultural holdings was targeted at EU priorities and Member States' specific needs.
The Court found that actions aimed at modernising agricultural holdings would potentially be more effective through more targeted use of funds to meet EU priorities and the specific needs of Member States, as well as through effective use of selection procedures.
This aid concerns the financing of investments in agricultural holdings which may include investments in simple products such as agricultural equipment or wooden fruit boxes, as well as investments in complex projects such as biogas.
The EU budget for this assistance (the EAFRD) for the 2007-2013 programming period amounts to EUR 11.1 billion, representing around 11% of all EU rural development expenditure. for the verification of the control system governing the production, processing, distribution and import of organic products (No 9/2012) in order to verify that the control system for organic products provides sufficient assurance that the key requirements for the production, processing, distribution and import of organic products are met.
It has examined how different stakeholders (the European Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States, accreditation bodies and certification bodies) have fulfilled their tasks in the EU and in the management of import systems.
The Court found that the competent authorities in the Member States encountered difficulties in ensuring traceability of organic products as well as shortcomings in the system that need to be addressed in order to ensure that the system is functioning effectively and to ensure that consumer confidence is not undermined.
The objective of the EU legal framework for organic production is to lay the foundations for the sustainable development of organic production, to ensure a level playing field, to protect consumers' interests while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
A control system has been established whereby each operator in the supply chain is controlled and certified. for direct aid for suckler cows and sheep and goats in the framework of the partial implementation of the single payment scheme (No 11/2012) under this special report examined whether the aid was targeted at the most relevant regions in the Member States, whether it was effective in maintaining specific production and thus preventing negative social, economic and environmental impacts, and whether it was subject to appropriate monitoring and evaluation by the Commission and the Member States.
The Court found that direct CAP support for maternal herds does not produce better results than non-production aid.
Following the 2003 CAP reform, agricultural aid previously granted in the form of direct payments linked to the production of certain agricultural products (so-called production-related aid), after the introduction of the single payment scheme, should no longer be paid depending on production (i.e. separated from production).
However, certain sectors and regions provide for certain derogations from total separation from production in order to reduce the potential negative effects of the immediate transition to such a system.
The total budget for this direct aid amounted to EUR 1.0 billion in 2011.
19 On-the-spot checks of the beneficiary holding in Spain
20 THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK FOR MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES for the implementation of EU hygiene rules in slaughterhouses of Member States which have acceded to the EU since 2004 (No 14/2012) under this Special Report examined whether the Commission and the Member States concerned took the necessary measures to ensure that appropriate adaptations to EU hygiene rules were made in slaughterhouses.
Monitoring, targeted assistance, implementation and financing of measures to ensure compliance with sanitary rules have been examined.
The Court examined slaughterhouses in Poland, Romania, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary which received EU funds.
While the Court found that the systems of the Commission and the competent authorities set up to monitor hygiene rules were generally appropriate, the audit revealed a number of shortcomings in the implementation of those systems which indicate the need to increase severity at all levels in order to reduce risks.
The Member States that joined the EU since 2004 had to ensure that their slaughterhouses complied with EU sanitary rules.
Since these rules generally contained far more stringent requirements than national rules, EU funds have been allocated to assist slaughterhouses in complying with health rules and related modernisation.
The special pre-accession programme for agriculture and rural development (Sapard) allocates around €117 million to 241 slaughterhouses.
The support was then continued under the EAGGF and EAFRD. on the effectiveness of the single area payment scheme as a transitional support scheme for farmers in the new Member States (No 16/2012) This special report examined the main shortcomings, such as payments to beneficiaries who do not carry out (or do not carry out marginal) agricultural activities, payments for areas abandoned or used for non-agricultural activities, payments to public authorities and aid concentrated on several large beneficiaries.
The Court found that part of the aid had been paid to beneficiaries who had carried out only marginal agricultural activities or did not have agricultural activities, including public entities, and that the distribution of the aid did not take into account the specificities of regional agricultural activities or the farmers' contribution to the production of public goods.
In addition, a large majority of farmers receive a very small amount of aid.
The single area payment scheme is a simplified income support scheme for farmers in the Member States that have joined the EU since 2004.
In 2011, payments amounted to around EUR 5 billion.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special report: on Does the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund contribute effectively to the integration of third-country nationals?
(No 22/2012) The special report assessed whether the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund, which are part of the EU's general programme "Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows" 2007-2013 (SOLID), effectively contributed to the integration of third-country nationals into the EU, whether the results were supported by effective monitoring and evaluation of the programme, whether the concept of the Funds contributed to the effective implementation of the Funds and whether the implementation systems of integration actions were properly managed under the "SOLID" programme.
The Court found that, although there were positive results for the various projects audited, inadequate systems were put in place to measure the success of the funds.
The effectiveness of the funds has been reduced by the programme and coordination with other EU funds has been insufficient.
The EU supports the integration of third-country nationals in the EU Member States and increases solidarity by sharing the financial burden of managing common external borders and implementing common policies in the field of asylum and immigration.
Total expenditure under the EU budget for the Solid programme 2007-2013 is estimated to amount to EUR 4.0 billion.
21 This policy area has been established to ensure the free movement of persons and to ensure a high level of protection for citizens.
From EU external border management to judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters.
It includes asylum and immigration policies, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
Expenditure in this area is expected to amount to EUR 12.2 billion over the period 2007-2013.
The EU's 22th FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK AS A GENERAL PARTNER The EU's external action is aimed at: enlargement, ensuring stability, security and prosperity in the neighbourhood, actively promoting sustainable development at international level, supporting global political governance and ensuring strategic and civil security.
The EU has committed €55.9 billion to these objectives for 2007-2013, or 5.7% of planned expenditure.
The Commission shall mainly manage expenditure directly through its central services or delegations.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the effectiveness of EU development aid for food security in sub-Saharan Africa (No 1/2012) in this special report examined the effectiveness of EU development aid for food security in sub-Saharan Africa by examining whether EU development aid for food security is relevant to the needs and priorities of countries and whether EU action has been effective.
The audit focused on direct EU assistance to develop three pillars of food security: food availability, access to food and a sustainable diet.
The Court found that EU aid for the development of food security in sub-Saharan Africa is mostly effective and contributes significantly to food security.
However, the Commission has not sufficiently taken into account the possibility of EU support to other countries that are also affected by chronic food uncertainties and has not given an adequate food priority.
Food security is a serious and persistent problem in sub-Saharan Africa, where hunger affects 30% of the population.
In the period 2002-2010, the EU financed the European Development Fund (EDF) in the region for food security activities with a total value of more than EUR 3.2 billion. on the Common Information System RELEX (CRIS) (5/2012), this special report examined whether CRIS was designed to meet the Commission's needs effectively and whether the information it provided was reliable.
The audit included a review of the CRIS documentation available to the Commission and an analysis of the data contained in the CRIS.
The Court found that CRIS to a large extent effectively meets the Commission's needs for information on external actions.
After ten years of development, however, it still has weak points.
CRIS is an information system set up by the Commission to support the management of external actions.
The functions of the system have been continuously extended since its launch in 2002.
It is now the main reference information system for the management and documentation of external actions, together with the accompanying reports, and is financed both from the general budget of the EU and from the European Development Fund (EDF).
o European Union assistance to the Turkish-Cyprus Community (No 6/2012) This special report examines whether the Commission has developed an aid scheme in line with the objectives of the instrument, whether adequate implementation rules have been established and whether individual projects have achieved their objectives.
The aim of the audit was not to assess whether the programme had contributed to the objective of political unification.
The Court found that the programme met its objectives as a financial support instrument for the Turkish Cypriot community and that, despite significant constraints, it created generally appropriate conditions.
Some results have already been achieved, but their sustainability is often questionable and the biggest project of the programme has not been implemented.
Around a third of this amount was examined by the Court by means of its sample of EU development aid agreements for drinking water and basic sanitary services in the sub-Saharan region (No 13/2012) in order to verify that the Commission managed EU development aid to improve the quality of drinking water and basic sanitary services in sub-Saharan Africa in such a way as to ensure effective and sustainable results.
The Court found that EU support contributed to improving access to drinking water and basic sanitary services.
On the other hand, the needs of the beneficiaries have been satisfactorily met in the case of less than half of the projects audited and the benefits will only last if the revenue is not based on fees.
Improving water supply and sanitation is crucial to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
Supply of clean drinking water and sanitation contributes to economic growth and poverty reduction.
Between 2001 and 2010, EU expenditure on water and sanitation infrastructure in the sub-Saharan region amounted to around EUR 1.0 billion, but since funding is earmarked for water and sanitation infrastructure in other areas of assistance, the Commission has allocated more to this purpose.
23 Waterkiosk, Jigawa, Nigeria
24 ACTIVITIES OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK This special report examines whether the EDF has effectively contributed to the sustainable development of the road network in sub-Saharan Africa, whether the road infrastructure supported by the EDF is sustainable and whether the Commission has effectively supported the sustainable development of road infrastructure.
The audit focused on the technical, financial and institutional sustainability of road infrastructure and 48 programmes which since 1995 have been supported under the eighth, ninth and tenth EDFs in six partner countries.
The Court found that the Commission's support for a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa is partially effective.
The partner countries visited by the Court are not making sufficient efforts to ensure the sustainable development of road infrastructure, which affects premature road consumption to varying degrees.
Roads and other transport infrastructures are essential for regional integration, economic growth, social development, efficient public administration and security.
In Sub-Saharan Africa, road transport is the most important means of transport for people and goods and represents more than 80% of total transport of goods and services, with a growing demand for transport.
In the period 1995-2011, the EU allocated around €7.4 billion from the EFF to this region for EU rule of law assistance to Kosovo (No 18/2012) (see not taking economic control in the region).
Road control in Tanzania
The European Union's Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo Kosovo's Kosovo police and EULEX border patrol in Kosovo © EULEX, 2011, Enisa Kasemi's photo As part of the control of EU rule of law assistance to Kosovo, the Court pointed out for the first time the mission of the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP).
Kosovo is the world's largest beneficiary of EU per capita financial assistance and the place of the largest civilian crisis management operation ever launched by the Union (the European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo under EULEX).
The Court's Special Report No 18/2012 related to the assessment of the effectiveness of EU assistance to Kosovo in the field of the rule of law.
The audit focused on four sectors: police, judiciary, customs and the fight against corruption.
The Court also examined the coordination with other donors and the implementation of EULEX.
The study of such a complex area was a challenge.
Four verification visits were carried out in Kosovo.
There have been consultations with EULEX officials and the European Commission, as well as local officials, representatives of the international donor community and civil society organisations.
The audit team has examined the projects of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and the Instrument for Stability, as well as activities related to the monitoring, conduct and advice (MMA) carried out by EULEX.
Meetings took place in Brussels with the Commission, the European External Action Service, the Council and NATO Secretariat.
In addition, the Court supported a team of experts.
The Court found that EU aid was not sufficiently effective.
Although the EU has contributed to capacity building, particularly in the area of customs, the success of police and justice assistance has been modest.
The level of organised crime and corruption in Kosovo remains high.
Justice continues to suffer from political influence, inefficiency and lack of transparency and enforcement.
The limited capacity to protect important witnesses in Kosovo and the difficulty of moving Witnesses abroad are serious shortcomings.
According to Gijs de Vries, a member of the Court responsible for the report, the Kosovo authorities do not attach sufficient importance to the rule of law and EU aid should be more effective.
Francisco de Miguel Rodriguez, head of the evaluation team, claims that there is no place in the world other than Kosovo, where so many international donors could be found in such a small area for capacity building.
The Court concluded that EU coordination mechanisms should be improved, including coordination with the international community.
Unlike the other Western Balkan countries, the lack of a common EU position on their independence threatens to encourage the accession of Kosovo to the EU.
As far as communication is concerned, this attempt has moved on to new ways.
This was most frequently cited in 2012 in the Court's report: more than 130 articles were published in printed and electronic media.
In addition, a summary video was published on the Court's website.
It was a premiere for the Court, reflecting its desire to achieve a wider audience.
The European Commission and the European External Action Service have accepted the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The report was presented to the European Parliament and to the Council working groups.
Given the importance of its findings, the Upper House of the United Kingdom has decided to examine the report in detail.
26 EU AUTHORITIES, AGENCIES AND OTHER AUTHORITIES In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: Administrative expenditure of EU institutions, agencies and other bodies covers expenditure on staff (personal and pension), buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology.
The total expenditure for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 55.9 billion and 5.7% of the total EU budget respectively. on The effectiveness of the European Commission's staff development (No 10/2012) in this special report examined whether the Commission agreed to develop its staff in terms of the needs of the organisation, provided its employees with opportunities for further development, created an environment to motivate employees to further develop their skills and apply them to the workplace.
The Commission's annual budget for external training and teaching material amounted to EUR 26,6 million in 2010. In 2010, the annual investment in education and development also included 230 000 days of participation in training and 310 staff responsible for managing training and career development. o Did the Commission and Eurostat improve the procedures for producing reliable and reliable European statistics?
(No 12/2012) The special report assessed whether the procedures for producing reliable and reliable statistics were improved by the Commission and Eurostat.
The improvement is directly linked to compliance with the Code of Conduct for European Statistics, which sets standards for the production, production and dissemination of statistics and for the implementation of the European Statistical Programme.
No assessment of the reliability of specific statistical results has been carried out.
The Court found that the Commission and Eurostat had not yet fully implemented the Code of Conduct for European Statistics and that Eurostat had not developed the European Statistical Programme 2008-2012 as an effective tool for planning, monitoring and accountability.
Reliable and reliable statistics are crucial to the achievement of the tasks entrusted to the European Union.
Statistics are necessary in almost all areas for the formulation, application, monitoring and evaluation of the tasks and objectives set out in the Treaties and for the collection and allocation of EU funds.
European political decisions are increasingly based directly on statistics and statistical indicators are increasingly being used as a factor for political decisions or sanctions. on the management of conflicts of interest in selected EU agencies (No 15/2012) This special report assesses whether the selected agencies have properly managed conflicts of interest, whether there are appropriate guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest situations and whether the selected agencies have properly implemented their guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest situations.
The review assessed guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest situations for the four selected agencies which take decisions affecting consumer safety and health.
The Court found that the selected EU agencies did not adequately manage conflicts of interest.
BORDER RECOMMENDATION for the 2011 report on the monitoring of the European Court of Auditors' special reports (No 19/2012) this report examines the extent to which the recommendations made by the Court in the seven selected special reports from 2003 to 2009 were implemented by the Commission.
Further special reports concerned three budgetary areas: agriculture, energy and external action.
The Court assessed the actions taken by the Commission on the basis of the Court's recommendations.
The audit showed that the recommendations were taken into account: the Commission fully implemented 29% of the recommendations examined, largely implemented 49%, partially implemented 20% and did not implement 2%.
For more information on the follow-up to the Court's recommendations, see page 39.
27 In 2012, the Court published a new type of report, namely a special report, which will continue to implement the recommendations set out in the previous special reports.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITOR EN 2011 REPORT ON THE FOLLOW-UP OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS' SPECIAL REPORTS Special Reports No 19 2012 ISSN 1831-0834
The Court contributes to improving the financial management of the EU.
These opinions are issued at the request of other EU institutions and are used by legislative bodies in the framework of the work of the European Parliament and the Council.
Opinions are available in all official EU languages on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu.
29 OPINION No 1/2012 ON THE COMMISSION'S LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS ON THE REFORM OF THE COMMON ANNUAL POLICY FROM 2014. The common agricultural policy (CAP) is to be reformed by 2013.
In October 2011, the Commission published a proposal containing the main elements of the CAP legislative framework for 2014-2020.
The new legal framework proposes to maintain the current two-pillar structure of the CAP and thus two existing European financial instruments for agricultural policy: the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
The Court recognised the Commission's efforts to simplify CAP rules (e.g. not applying different models for the implementation of the current single payment scheme, introducing a simplified scheme for small farmers).
In its conclusions, the Commission made a number of observations by Parliament, the Council and the Court.
However, the legislative proposals are in principle still focused on expenditure and control, and therefore, contrary to the stated intentions, they remain in line with the performance rules.
The Court took note of the Commission's objective of paying CAP aid to active farmers and of seeking a more balanced distribution of direct payments between beneficiaries.
However, the Court had doubts as to whether the proposed measures could be effectively implemented without imposing an excessive administrative burden on administrative authorities and farmers.
In his view, this solution could consist of a combination of the general principles laid down in the Regulation and systematic monitoring and monitoring by the Commission of their implementation.
It stated that the so-called "shortening' (shortening of aid exceeding a certain ceiling) would have a limited impact on the redistribution of aid.
This opinion has had a significant impact on the reflection on the future of the CAP.
More than 2000 articles have been published in the media on this subject.
The Court has been invited by a number of NGOs, farmers' fair organisers and other industrial forums to present its views to the public, and the European Parliament invites the Court's representatives to participate in working groups on this matter.
Most of the European Parliament's recommendations have been incorporated into its own proposals for amendments to legislation.
The legislative package will be put to the vote after the adoption of the multiannual financial framework.
30 COOPERATION WITH OTHER Major Audit Authorities The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Authorities (ORCs) mainly in the following bodies: the ORC Contact Committee of EU Member States; the ORC Network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; international organisations for the control of public finances, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
Meeting of EU Liaison Officers in Rome, April 2012 Meeting of the INTOSAI Sub-Committee on the Development of Expertise in Luxembourg, September 2011
In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies shall cooperate with full confidence while maintaining their independence.
The Court is actively working with the CCCs of the EU Member States within the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee shall meet once a year for EU-ORKB presidents and for the Court.
Working groups and task forces have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2012, the Court supported the President-in-Office of the Contact Committee (ORKB Portugal) in preparing and organising the annual meeting in 2012 held in Estoril (Portugal) on 18-19 October 2012.
Two main issues were raised during the meeting: the challenges facing the ORKB in preparing for the next EU financial framework (2014-2020), recent developments in response to the financial crisis and the experience of the OPK with appropriate controls.
At its meeting, the Contact Committee decided to set up a Task Force on the analysis of the tasks and role of the ORKB, taking into account recent developments in the EU as regards the creation of a new economic, budgetary and financial structure and possible impact on the ORK.
The Court is a member of this Task Force to report to the Contact Committee in 2013.
In addition, in 2012, the Court provided administrative support to the Contact Committee and actively participated in various working groups and networks.
In addition, in 2012, the Court participated in the euro area OrkB initiative in order to ensure adequate external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
In April 2012, a common position was forwarded to the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union on the proposal for a Statute for Article 30 of the Treaty establishing a mechanism.
The final version of the Statutes is broadly in line with this Common Position with regard to the Audit Committee.
The Court cooperates with the ORC of candidate countries and potential candidate countries.
One of the most important cooperation instruments is the ORKB network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries1 together with its organisational structure comparable to the Contact Committee.
This network shall include regular meetings of the OPCW Chairs and Liaison Officers and working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel controls.
In 2012, the Court supported the implementation of the work programme, which forms part of the Istanbul agreement adopted at the meeting of the network presidents in March 2011.
The President of the Court took part in the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the Court of Auditors of the Turkish Court of Auditors and paid an official visit to the Croatian Court of Auditors.
OTHER COOPERATION AREAS In 2012, the Court continued its active participation and participation in INTOSAI and EUROSAI activities.
In 2012, the Court continued to promote objective 1 in the field of technical standards under INTOSAI as a member of the Audit Sub-Committee, the Sub-Committee on Compliance with Legal Standards and the Sub-Committee on Performance Control; the draft quality control of audits and the draft harmonisation.
With regard to Objective 2. Strengthening expertise under INTOSAI, the Court contributed as follows: o He supported the subcommittee on promoting best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews and organised a fifth meeting. o He accompanied the work of the subcommittee as part of enhanced support for the development of the competences of INTOSAI members.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the INTOSAI Working Group on Liability and Audit of Civil Protection Assistance under Objective 3.
In 2012, the working group carried out the following work: o She completed and prepared for public discussion five draft international standards for the Supreme Audit Authorities (ISSAI), which form a new series of 5500-55599 in the field of civil protection assistance management. o She worked on a draft INTOSAI guidelines on good governance (INTOSAI GOV) on an integrated financial liability framework on 1 February 2013 was part of the accession country network (Croatia), five candidate countries (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and two potential candidate countries (Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina).
All five ISSAI and INTOSAI GOV will be presented for adoption in 2013 at the next INTOSAI Congress.
In 2012, the Court also took the following steps: o He organised the fourth meeting of the INTOSAI Steering Committee on Knowledge Exchange during which he chaired ORB India. o He continued to contribute to the INTOSAI Environment Assessment Working Group. o He took part in the joint meeting of the INTOSAI Working Group on State Debt and the Global Financial Crisis Task Force to the challenges facing the ORB.
The Court continued its participation in the Intosaint project, a self-assessment tool for ORKB, which under the auspices of INTOSAI runs the Netherlands.
In 2012, representatives of the Court of Auditors held a weekly workshop on self-assessment of honesty at the Norwegian Court of Auditors. With regard to EUROSAI, in 2012 (after appointment as a member of the Bureau), the Court took part in XXXIX.
The Court took part in the 10th Annual Meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Impact Assessment and contributed to the joint assessment of adaptation to climate change which the Court presented on behalf of the Working Group at its 2012 meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC); took part in the first meeting of the EUROSAI Task Force on Assessment and Ethics and participated in the activities of the Task Force.
At the Joint Conferences of Regional Working Groups INTOSAI, the Court actively participated in the 7th Conference of EUROSAI and the American and Caribbean Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (OLACEFS), which focused on the role of ORKB in promoting good administrative practices in the public sector.
33 4th meeting of the INTOSAI Steering Committee on Knowledge Exchange in Luxembourg, September 2012
34 OUR MANAGEMENT: STRATEGIES FOR 2013-2017 The Court adopted and published its strategy for 2013-2017 in 2012.
The Court's objective during this period is to maximise the value of the Court's contribution to EU public responsibility.
The main priorities for achieving this objective are: to focus the Court's products on improving the EU's reporting obligation; to cooperate with other stakeholders in order to increase the Court's contribution to the implementation of the EU's reporting obligation; to further develop as a professional audit body; to make optimal use of the Court's knowledge, knowledge and expertise fund; to demonstrate the Court's capacity and accountability.
The Court will use its unique powers and views, expertise, expertise and partnerships that it has built over 35 years of its existence to contribute willingly to the future development of EU control, policy and financial management mechanisms; to help other parties involved in the accountability process at EU level to identify the risks associated with the obligation to settle with the EU and facilitate the use of audit results; to enhance professionalism by contributing to the development and application of new audit standards and best practices; to further improve the reporting and opinion process; to improve the performance and accountability framework, in line with their responsibilities as EU institutions and ORB; to implement budgetary discipline measures in line with the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, including the necessary restrictions on employment plans during the period of this strategy.
In 2013-2017, the Court will focus its reports, opinions and comments on the following aspects: strengthening public responsibility and auditing systems; improving financial management and reporting on the implementation of the EU budget and its impact; improving the concept of EU spending policies and programmes.
THE COURT'S COLLECTION According to the Treaty, the term of office of the Members of the Court shall be six years and shall be renewable.
In 2012, five new members of the Court were elected: Henrik Otbo (Denmark), Pietro Russo (Italy), Ville Itälä (Finland), Kevin Cardiff (Ireland) and Baudilio Vaugurz (Spain).
CHANGED CONVERGATION CODE FOR MEMBERS OF THE COURT In February 2012, the Court adopted a new Code of Conduct for Members, which takes account of developments since the adoption of the previous Code eight years ago.
In addition, the Court publishes declarations of interests of its members on its website, which significantly contributes to transparency35.
36 MEASURING DATA ON THE CERTIFICATE OF THE TERMINATION OF THE COURT OF STRATEGIA 2009-2012 In 2008, the Court published its first strategy.
This strategy was applicable between 2009 and 2012 and aimed at maximising the impact of the Court's audits and increasing efficiency through the best use of resources.
Overall, the Court has successfully implemented its strategy for 2009-2012.
The Court's recommendations were largely accepted: the Commission concluded that around half of the recommendations issued in 2011 had been implemented and that the Court's main institutional addressees were satisfied with its annual and special reports, the quality of which is assessed by external experts as good and improved; furthermore, the Court increased the number of staff in audit chambers by 60 (501 in 2008 compared to 564 in 2011) and the number of staff in administration and translations decreased by 40.
With regard to the 2009-2012 strategic period, the Court has identified a number of key performance indicators aimed at: informing management of progress in achieving the objectives; supporting decision-making; providing information on the results to addressees.
Key performance indicators shall measure the basic parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, with particular regard to the position of the main addressees and the effectiveness and effectiveness of its use of resources.
As 2012 was the last year of the 2009-2012 strategic period, results on key performance indicators are presented every four years, if available.
The Court will update the key performance indicators to be used during the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy so that they correspond to its new or improved priorities and prove their effectiveness and responsibility as a professional audit body.
QUALITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE COURT'S WORK The Court shall assess the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments carried out by addressees and inspections carried out by experts.
ASSESSMENT BY ADDRESSATEN The Court asked the main addressees of its reports (the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgets of the Council) to assess the quality and impact of the 2011 annual reports and the special reports published in 2012.
The evaluation was carried out on a five-stage scale (1 very weak, 2 weak, 3 suitable, 4 good, 5 very good).
4.5 4.0 3.5 3.9 4.2 4.0 4.2 105 % of the Court's assessment of the Court's final audit reports of the main resources 37 2009 2010 2012 2012 Result The result remained stable over the whole period, reaching between 3.9 and 4.2 on a five-stage scale.
This shows that the main recipients of the Court's reports are their quality and impact on average in good faith.
In 2012, the Court achieved in this indicator a score of five percent higher than that objective.
38 EXPERT CONTROLS Each year independent external bodies reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports.
In 2012, the auditors assessed eight special reports and the 2011 annual reports.
They assessed the quality of the various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale with a significant impact on the narrow (1) to an extremely high quality thread (4).
3.5 3.0 2.5 3.0 2.8 3.0 106 % of the 2011 target 4.0 3.5 3.0 FEEDBACK THE HIGHEST DEPARTMENTS tested 3.7 3.7 3.7 3.6 3.6 97 % of the 2.8 OVERVIEW OF THE COURT'S REPORTS IN 2009 3.5 2009 2012 Result Objective The objective was achieved on a four-stage scale between 2009 and 2012 between 2.8 and 3.0 and shows that external experts assess the quality of the Court's reports as satisfactory.
The reviews provided the Court with valuable information on the quality of the reports and the recommendations of the auditors are used for further improvement.
On the basis of a survey and assessment scale carried out in 2012 by the main assessment bodies of the quality and impact of the audits carried out by the Court, and on the basis of an evaluation carried out by the addressees, feedback was collected on the quality and effectiveness of the audits carried out in 2012.
These results ranged from 3.5 to 3.7 on a five-stage scale between 2009 and 2012. The results show that the main audit bodies assess the Court's audits as average good.
Overall, the results of the evaluations carried out by the addressees in 2009-2012 are positive and show that the Court's main addressees assess the quality and impact of the reports.
ACTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations set out in the reports in order to contribute to improving financial management.
In order to make changes, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the evaluation bodies and subsequently implemented.
The court therefore measures both parameters.
100 % 90 % 80 % 94% 2009 94% 2010 93% 2011 Objective 98 % 109 % of the 2012 targets Completed by the Court's recommendations between 2009 and 2012, the rate of acceptance of the Court's recommendations by the audited bodies was between 93% and 98%.
The objective set for this indicator has been exceeded annually.
In 2011, the Court started a systematic monitoring of the implementation of its recommendations, given that the implementation of some recommendations could take a long time due to their scale or complexity.
According to the Commission's statistics, 63% of the recommendations made between 2009 and 2012 were implemented at the end of 2012.
More than half of the recommendations issued in 2011 have also been implemented.
100% 80% 60% 60% 40% 20% 0 35% After 1 year 56 % After 2 years 73% After 3 years 76 % After 4 years of court implementation 39
40 EFFECTIVENESS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF FIGHTING RESOURCES The Court shall assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the use of resources, depending on the extent to which it is able to report and audit reports in good time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff.
The Court shall monitor the effectiveness of its reporting procedure by comparing the number of reports planned for a given year with the number of reports adopted and verifying that those reports have been adopted within the deadlines set for that purpose.
100 % 90 80% 80 % 70 % 79% 2008 91 % 2009 90 % 2010 83% 2011 93 % 103 % target 2012 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 73 % 2008 67 % 2009 80 % 2010 Result 75 % 73 % 81 % target number of reports adopted by the Court in relation to the number of reports constructed Since 2008 this indicator is measured from 79% to 93% in relation to the number of reports actually adopted in relation to the number of reports originally planned.
The measurement showed that the annual targets have been achieved to a large extent, but further improvements are possible, in particular when drawing up special reports.
The punctuality of the reports has also been measured since 2008.
The purpose of the measurement of results is to specify the time limits for annual reports and special annual reports set out in the legislation; the relevant time limits for special reports are set out in the planning documents.
NUMBER OF REPORTS BY THE COURT OF AUDITORS FOR 2011 2012
Between 2008 and 2012, this indicator was 67-73% and remained below the 90% target set for this indicator.
The main reasons were the ambitious planning of special reports and unpredictable events during the audit.
The Court notes that while the accuracy of the planning of performance checks and their effectiveness can still be improved, in 2008-2012 the number of special reports prepared was not only significantly increased, but also brought their duration closer to the 18-month target.
Between 2008 and 2012 85 special reports were adopted (compared to 51 special reports for 2003-2007) and the average duration was reduced from 25 months in 2008 to 20 months in 2012.
The Court's 2013-2017 strategy includes a new initiative to further improve reporting in order to improve the timeliness and effectiveness of reports.
THE NEED FOR CONTROL EXPENDITURE The Court uses audit notifications to confirm the accuracy of the specific findings of the audit by the assessment bodies.
The audit communications are therefore an important step in the audit process.
In accordance with the Court's internal rules, notifications of checks should be made within two months of the date of the relevant verification visit, each year being measured to the extent that that deadline has been respected.
70 % 60 % 50 % 40% 40% 30 % 20% 54% 58% 61 % 90 % of the 2012 targets 27 % 2008 2009 2010 2011 Result INTERMEDIATE AIM LAST AUDIT OPINION OF THE COURT 43 % The Court found that there was a significant need to improve punctuality when drawing up audit reports.
In 2008, when the Court started its measurements, it set two targets for the punctuality of the audit notifications: improving the results by 10% per year and ensuring that 80% of the audit communications are prepared by the end of 2012.
Between 2008 and 2012, this ratio was 27-61%.
Despite significant improvements in performance and a significant part of the achievement of the annual targets, the 2012 result is still lower than the long-term target of 80%.
The Court will continue to seek even better results in this area 41.
42 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court seeks to obtain a full opinion from an independent auditor on the annual accounts and the use of resources, as well as from the European Parliament on the basis of a positive opinion of the Council.
The unlimited discharge audit opinion receives an external evaluation of the Court's financial management after the financial years for April 2013 in 2011. The Court received an unqualified opinion from an independent auditor and the European Parliament granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget.
In line with the guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court seeks to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training.
7 6 5 4 3 5, 7 6.1 days 4.0 2009 5.2 104 % of the Training Days target for 2010 2011 2012 Result
The seminar on automatic administrative procedures, January 2012. In 2009-2012, the Court's reviewer represented an average of 5.3 days of training per year.
Taking into account language courses means an average of 10.6 days of training per year by one controller.
The target level of vocational training has been achieved every year since 2010.
COOPERATION The Court conducted internal interviews in 2009 and 2012 to assess the satisfaction of its employees.
Two indicators are derived from this study: the percentage of employees who are generally satisfied with their work and the average level of general satisfaction of employees.
A scale of 1 to 4 has been used, each value above 2,5 indicates general satisfaction.
COOPERATION WITH THE COURT OF COOPERATION TOTAL 100% 90% 90% 80 % 70% 4 86 86 % 3 2 2.8 2.8 2009 2012 Results 2009 2012 The results of these two interviews were very similar: 86% of the employees were generally satisfied with their work and the level of 2.8 was fully satisfied.
The results can therefore be considered as good.
1 43 44 SUPPORT FOR STAFF CONTROL ACTIVITIES SUPPORTING STAFF The most important capital of the Court is its staff.
As of 31 December 2012, the Court's staff was 887 employees (officials and temporary staff but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
573 of them operate in examination chambers (including 123 employees in the study of members).
In 2012, in view of the objective of making the best use of resources, the capacity to increase productivity in all activities was re-examined and implemented by simplifying procedures.
Posts released due to increased efficiency outside the scope of control have, as far as possible, been transferred to the control services and the President.
As a result, since 2008, the number of audit posts has increased by 14.4%, while the total number of posts approved by the Court has only increased by 3.5%.
Production increased significantly over the same period (see page 9).
45 Distribution of the Court's positions on 31 December 2008 2012. Audit 501 525 557 557 564 573 Translation 163 163 151 148 143 Administration 173 171 157 148 139 Service of the President 20 21 24 27 32 TOTAL 857 880 889 887 887 EMPLOYMENT The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's findings.
Moreover, for a limited number of graduates of higher education, the Court establishes a policy of equal opportunities, such as other EU institutions, in terms of human resources management and recruitment.
Following a steady increase in women's participation over the years, the Court has achieved almost balanced female and male participation among its employees.
At the end of 2012, the Court adopted an action plan on equal opportunities aimed at achieving a more balanced participation of women and men at all levels of the institution.
In 2012, the Court had 78 employees: 50 officials, 11 temporary staff and 17 contract staff.
Since 2011, the number of job vacancies is almost 3% (28 posts on 31 December 2012).
46 The following graph shows the percentage of men and women at the level of responsibility as at 31 December 2012.
The percentage of women at AD level reached 40% in 2012 and is likely to continue to increase in the future as 46% of women are employed in AD5-AD recruitment groups after recent recruitment waves8.
Of the 69 directors and heads of departments, 21 (30%) are women, reflecting the development of recent years.
Most of them are busy with the Translation Directorate and administrative services.
Secretary of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat in the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat of the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the Secretariat in the
20-24 0,1% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 One third of the directors and heads of departments are 55 years of age or older.
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION The profession of controller requires continuous training in order to keep up with new changes and acquire new skills.
Moreover, due to the specific nature of the Court's audit environment, auditors need good knowledge of foreign languages.
In 2012, the Court's staff (researchers and other staff) completed an average of 8 days of vocational training (9.3 days in 2011).
Language courses accounted for 52% of the total number of training days (compared with 54% in 2011).
Translation is an activity in support of control which enables the Court to carry out its mission and to achieve its communication objectives.
In 2012, the value of translations reached a maximum of 158 861 pages and was 11% higher than in 2011.
More than 99% of translations have been completed according to deadlines.
Information technology is crucial for the efficiency and efficiency of the Court.
2012 was a successful year: a first version of the new control support instrument (ASYST2) of the Court was created in the field of knowledge management and a pilot phase was launched in the control department.
In 2012, improvements were made in the content of training and new courses were developed to adapt to control priorities.
In addition, the creation of a new electronic system and the development of e-learning have made it possible to manage training activities more effectively.
TRANSLATION TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Directorate for TRANSLATION AND ECONOMIC TRANSLATION The Directorate for Translation and Auditors of the Court also provided linguistic support in the checks carried out in the Member States and at the subsequent stages of drawing up audit reports.
It also supported the INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the Court's audit activities. about Automation of administrative processes was actively continued through the introduction of ECAdema supporting the Court's training policy, decentralisation of time measurement, which saved human resources and the full digitisation of personal files.
The launch of the new building also involved a new telephone system and data network 47.
48 ADMINISTRATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE In 2012, the Directorate for Finance and Support Services continued to provide: (a) adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its tasks and pursue its strategic objectives; and (b) provide the necessary funding, internal control and accounting mechanisms to support all the Court's activities.
In order to ensure a safe, comfortable and ergonomic working environment for the Court's staff and to ensure that all the Court's staff work in one place, a second extension building was commissioned in 2003.
The farm withdrew the building in November 2012 and the first removals took place before the end of the year.
In 2012, the Directorate developed its activities even more efficient and more economical.
In October 2012, the Court's office was moved to another location in Brussels.
It is currently located in the MTS (Montoyer Science) building at Rue Montoyer 30/ Rue de la Science in Brussels.
USE OF BUILDING SUPPLY K3 Building K3 has been completed within the deadline, in accordance with the quality rules and within the framework of the financial framework.
In 2013, complementary work will be carried out in the remaining buildings of the Court.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court shall be financed by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget accounts for around 0,1% of the total EU expenditure and 1.72% of the total administrative expenditure.
Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 Implementing staff of the institution 4 Implementation of budgetary commitments in % of payments in EUR 1 000 49 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET 2012 14 592 92 335 4 148 3 802 2 972 117 849 13 785 89 015 3 810 3 512 2 879 113 001 10 703 9 508 963 685 1 843 24 344 137 445 94 % 96% 96% 96% 99 100% 98 100% 98 % 86 % 95% 95% 99 % 13 557 88 836 3 758 2 604 2 148 110 903 7 009 4 524 649 748 13 764 124 667 1616 1616 16, 163, 165 Implementation Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 20 2 Implementation in the processing of data and telecommunications broadly, 216, 257 836 836 3 704 2 148 110 903 748 13 764 124 667 16, 163, 165 Other expenditure on staff of the institution 210 WD.
50 In 2012, the total budget available was 96%.
For Title 1, this indicator is 96%, with the lowest in Chapter 14 (Other external staff and services) and Article 162 (service travel) of Chapter 16 (Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution) (92%).
For Title 2, the average execution rate is 99%.
The amount of payments under Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the work related to the construction of the second enlargement of the Court (building K3).
The fourth financial tranche of EUR 3 million for this project was entered in the 2012 budget and was entered and partly paid in 2012.
The remaining amount of funds allocated to building K3 was transferred to 2013 and is intended to finance contracts awarded by the project manager on behalf of the Court to construction companies.
The total cost of building K3 is estimated at EUR 79 million to be financed over the next five years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 6 million in 2012 and 2013.
The 2013 budget increased slightly by 0.2% compared to 2012.
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE OF THE "Budget' POLICY AREA
52 The Court's annual accounts shall be audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important example of the Court's application of the same principles of transparency and accountability as those of the authorities it has carried out.
The auditor's opinion on the Court's accounts for the financial year 2011 was published in October 20122.
In our view, the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2011 and of the results and cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and the accounting rules of the European Union (the accounting rules). For the EDF financial operations and the audit processes, there are no situations where, in all relevant respects and taking into account the above-mentioned evaluation criteria, the control procedures laid down do not provide the necessary guarantees that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
OJ C 315, 18.10.2012.
53 I, the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and confirm with sufficient certainty that the appropriations for the actions described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures put in place give the necessary guarantees of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and of the appropriate handling of allegations of fraud or suspected fraud.
Such reasonable assurance shall be based on the assessment of the signed and available information, such as reports and statements by subdelegated authorising officers, internal auditor's reports and independent auditor's opinions on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 7 March 2013. Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
54 35 YEARS BETTER EU FUNCTIONING The European Court of Auditors has been an external auditor of the EU for 35 years, which constantly adds value to the Union's financial management and provides public responsibility for the use of taxpayers' money.
The Court was founded at a time when the European Community (the original European Union) developed towards greater democracy and greater responsibility towards its citizens.
Two particularly important steps are to extend the powers of the European Parliament with regard to budgetary control and to fully fund the European Community budget from own resources.
The Community considered that it needed an independent external auditor to help Parliament and the Council ensure democratic financial control.
Mr Heinrich Aigner, President of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, who has been strongly in favour of an external audit body at Community level since 1973, presented an initiative which led to the creation of the European Court of Auditors under the Brussels Treaty on 22 July 1975.
The Court began its activities in October 1977 with its registered office in Luxembourg.
At that time, the President of the Court of Justice, Hans Kußer, declared the Court to be the financial conscience of the Community.
On 1 November 1993, with the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty, the Court obtained the status of a fully-fledged European institution, ensuring its independence and authority as an equivalent institution.
The Maastricht Treaty has also introduced what is now the core product of the Court, namely the statement of assurance (DAS) of the EU accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The Court's role was strengthened with the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty on 1 May 1999, which strengthened the Court's independence and extended its control powers to other policy areas.
The Treaty of Nice of 1 February 2003 confirmed the principle that the Court should belong to one member of each Member State, underlined the importance of the Court's cooperation with the national audit authorities and enabled the Court to establish a chamber structure.
Since its establishment, the Court has consistently supported cooperation with the highest audit authorities of the Member States in the control of EU funds, in particular through participation in the Contact Committee of EU-ORKB Presidents.
In its role as ORB, the Court also sought to prepare changes in the field of public sector control through cooperation with other supervisory authorities within the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) and their regional EUROSAI group to define technical standards and best practices.
Early, the Court considered the peer review procedure to be a tool for the development and dissemination of best practice in the Community.
Over 35 years, the Court has sought to improve the EU's financial management by providing high-quality products reflecting changes in the EU and changing needs of its addressees.
Over the last 35 years, the EU has adopted new Member States, gained new powers and created new institutions at EU level.
The Court's results have therefore increased significantly compared to the two opinions drawn up by the Court in its first year of activity.
The Court's products now include annual reports, special reports, Statement of Assurance, Special Annual Reports, Opinions and Position Documents.
The number of products increased to 87 publications in 2012.
For several years, the Court has given a higher priority to checking the results of EU policies and providing guidance to improve efficiency.
Like the EU, the Court has evolved.
On the basis of nine members and 120 employees in 1977, the Court currently has 27 members and almost 900 employees.
Like the Union itself, the success of the Court depends on close cooperation between members and employees from all European countries.
The Court is proud of the fact that since 1977 it has been able to create committed, professional and experienced human resources that protect the financial interests of citizens.
In the coming years, the Court will seek to increase the responsibility towards citizens for the resources allocated to these objectives.
55 Members of the first College of the Court, November 1977
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2012 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2013 in 55 pp. 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 HOW TO GET OPENED BY THE EU?Free publications: • in EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • in European Union delegations and delegations.
QJ-AA-13-001-DE-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu http://eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorseca EUAuditorseca ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DE 2014 Activity Report
The European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 E-mail: eca-info@eca.europa.eu Internet: http://eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA Youtube: EUAuditorseca Many information about the European Union can be found on the Internet (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2015 Print ISBN 978-92-872-2134-6 ISSN 1684-0666 doi:10.2865/062938 QJ-AA-15-001-DE-C PDF ISBN 978-92-872-2130-8 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/751281 QJ-AA-15-001-DE-N EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-2123-0 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/1466 QJ-AA-15-001-DE-E © European Union, 2015 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
In memory of our colleague, Henrik Otbo, a member of the Court who died unexpectedly on 1 February 2015, Henrik Otbo was born in 1949 and had Danish citizenship.
From 1995 to 2012 he was the President of the Danish Court of Auditors and from 1 March 2012 a member of the European Court of Auditors at CEAD (coordination, evaluation, quality assurance and development) with particular responsibility for development and audit evaluation.
His lifetime commitment to public financial control, in particular his leading role in setting international standards for the highest audit authorities as President of the INTOSAI Standards Committee, was particularly valuable to the Court, his former colleagues from the Danish Court of Auditors and the whole audit sector.
01 European Court of Auditors 02 The mandate of the European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the audit of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the EU, promotes accountability and transparency and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
Guide The independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is characterised by fairness and impartiality and is recognised as a professional, quality and impact of its work and provides its addressees with valuable support for improving EU financial management.
Values Independence, integrity and impartiality Professionalism Add value Excellence and efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality of institutions, its members and employees.
Unbiased control which takes account of the views of the addressee of the Court but rejects any form of interference by instructions or external pressures.
Maintaining an adequate level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of financial control at Union and global level.
preparing appropriate and timely high-quality reports based on reliable findings and evidence, taking into account issues related to its address group and containing important and guiding information.
contribute to the effective improvement of EU financial management and contribute to strengthening the clearing obligation for EU financial management.
Supporting a team spirit through effective communication.
Content 03 page 2 European Court of Auditors 4-5 Preface of the President 6 2014 at a glance 6 Our actions 6 Our management 7-43 Our actions 7-36 Audit reports and other products 37-38 Relations with addressees 39-41 Cooperation with other supreme audit bodies 42-43 Important events 44-50 Our management 44-46 College of the Court 47-50 Measurement of Court results 51-59 Support for control actions 51-54 Staff 55-56 Support services 57-58 Financial information 59 Control and accountability 60 Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation
The President's foreword 04 Dear Reader, 2014 was a year of profound change for the EU and its finances.
The EU has entrusted the European Central Bank with responsibility for the supervision of large banks in the euro area.
This was the first year of the new multiannual financial framework relevant for the implementation of the EU budget 2014-2020.
The new elections of the members of the European Parliament and the renewal of the highest positions in the Council and the European Commission, as well as the European Court of Auditors (ECA), were particularly important, welcomed by the six new members.
In 2014, our body issued 91 reports, opinions and other products more than ever before.
They are the result of our accounting audits, compliance checks and performance audits, including audits that fall within our new competences in the field of financial and economic governance.
They contain a number of important proposals, proposals and recommendations for improving EU financial management and accountability during the 2014-2020 programming period.
Some of its main statements are contained in this annual activity report.
We also aim to ensure that, based on our experience with control, we have as broad information as possible on the main challenges facing the EU in terms of funding and implementation of its policies.
To this end and as a contribution to this period, which is characterised by innovation, we introduced a new product called Landscape analysis in 2014.
In addition, at the request of the European Parliament, we have published an overview of the results of our accounting audits and the compliance procedures in the field of agriculture and cohesion in the period 2009-2013.
The Court is also involved in cooperation with its addressees in order to ensure that the addressees can make the best use of their work.
In 2014, the Court appointed, inter alia, a member and an ombudsman responsible for institutional relations.
He also organised a number of events aimed at providing opportunities for exchanges with high-level stakeholders from the EU and Member States.
During the conference, there were many people responsible for managing and controlling EU funds, including Members of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the highest control bodies and representatives of the scientific community.
The vice-president of the European Parliament and former EU Commissioner Olli Rehn gave a preliminary speech.
Particular attention should be paid to the visit of the delegation of Members of the Court to Lithuania, where meetings took place with parliamentarians, members of the government and representatives of the national Court of Auditors and with the Lithuanian Central Bank.
Preface by President 05 All year round, our strategy for 2013-2017 has been a breakthrough for our work and action taken to reform our institution.
In 2014, we shortened the average time needed to prepare our special reports and reduced the number of our employees in line with the requirements of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
We have also put funds in place to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the future by introducing an internal reform project.
This project will coordinate the implementation of the recommendations of the internal working groups, as well as the recommendations of the independent external peer review of the practices used by us in the performance assessment and of the European Parliament's report on the future role of the Court.
The Court is based in Luxembourg, but our steering teams travel as part of their work to obtain proof of control wherever EU funds are spent.
This activity report provides an overview of the inspection visits and reports we have carried out.
Particular emphasis will be placed on our assessment of EU support for European airport infrastructure.
This is an example of our performance controls to assess the impact and added value of EU funding and shows what efforts the Court needs to make in carrying out its mission.
This audit also demonstrates the involvement and professionalism of the Court's members, whose knowledge and involvement, in their interest, the Court and its citizens can always rely on.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira
• Organisation of a high-level conference on public responsibility and control by combining the European Parliament's activities in one place. • Two analyses of transfers: on accountability and public control obligations in the EU and on the risks related to EU financial management. • Organisation of a high-level conference on accountability and financial control in the EU.
Our management • In 2014, the Court welcomed six new members: Alex Brennankmeijer, Danièle Lamarque, Nikolaos Millionis, Phil Wynn Owen, Klaus-Heiner Lehne and Oskar Herics.
The College of Members, which elected Vítor Caldeira for the third period of three years, renewed the position of President of the Court and appointed Ville Itälä as a member responsible for institutional relations. • The Court's 2013-2017 strategy gave impetus to changes in the organisation: The Court launched an internal reform project aimed at improving the control process and ensuring a more flexible organisation of resources. • Further improvements in management efficiency, based on simplification of procedures and the transfer of employees in the support services sector to the audit area.
An action plan on equal opportunities has also been implemented.
Court building in Luxembourg.
Our activities 07 Audit reports and other products The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: • Annual control reports on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund (EDF) together with the results of the audit of accounting and compliance.
• Special reports which may be published at any time during the year, together with the results of audits of specific budgetary areas or management issues of their choice.
These are mainly economic audits. • Opinions on new or amended legislation affecting finance and other analysis-based products, drawn up at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative.
In 2014, the Court developed more products than ever before and presented new products.
Numerous analytical information is still available from year to year, as well as a full presentation of the results of our annual audits of financial statements and compliance audits.
In 2014, the focus was more on cost-efficiency audits, so that the EU budgetary authorities received additional information on the quality of implementation of the EU budget.
In addition to the annual reports, for the first time we published a summary of our audit results on agricultural expenditure and cohesion, which are subject to shared management between 2009 and 2013, in order to allow for a multiannual perspective.
Their important development was a new product called Landscape analysis.
Based on our audit expertise, the Landscape analysis will provide information and analysis on key issues.
In 2014, we published two Landscape analyses: the first focuses on the main challenges facing the EU, including public accountability and financial control; the second focuses on the risks of EU financial management.
2012 2013 2014 Annual reports (general budget of the EU and EDF) 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 50 50 51 Special reports 25 19 24 Opinions and other publications 10 6 14 Total 87 77 91 The full version of the audit reports, opinions and analyses of Landscape is available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu) in 23 official EU languages.
Our activities 08 Audit visits in 2014. While most examination work takes place in our premises in Luxembourg, our auditors also conduct inspection visits to Member States' authorities, other beneficiaries of EU funds (including the headquarters of international organisations such as the World Health Organisation in Switzerland) and EU agencies and bodies.
The purpose of these visits is to obtain direct proof of control from entities involved in the approval, management and payment of EU funds and from relevant final beneficiaries.
Our teams of controllers usually consist of two to three controllers, and the duration of the verification visit is from a few days to two weeks depending on the type of exam and the distance.
In the EU, our inspection visits are often carried out in consultation with the highest control authorities in the Member States visited.
The frequency and intensity of control work in each Member State and beneficiary country depends on the type of control and the results of the selection of the sample.
Therefore, the number and duration of inspection visits may vary from country to country and year per year.
In 2014, the Court's auditors spent 4,915 days in on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU, obtaining evidence of checks on annual reports and selected audit tasks (annual reports).
They also spent a lot of time in the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as in decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU.
In 2014, our auditors used less days on site for on-the-spot checks than in previous years.
This is due to more efficient working procedures and increasing use of technologies such as video conferencing.
EU inspectors used EU controllers to check maritime transport equipment.
4 915 days for on-the-spot checks
Our actions 09 days on the spot in 2014 Italy Poland Germany Spain France United Kingdom Portugal Greece Romania Czech Republic Lithuania Austria Sweden Hungary Netherlands Slovakia Denmark Latvia Bulgaria Belgium Finland Croatia Slovenia Estonia Malta Cyprus Rwanda India Norway United States of America Algeria Cambodia Morocco Seychelles South Africa Switzerland Côte d'Ivoire Democratic Republic of the Congo Fiji Thailand Belize Tunisia Georgia Indonesia Lesotho Nigeria Serbia Cameroon Mauritania Afghanistan Israel Senegal Tanzania Madagascar Turkey 50 100 150 200 300 350 450 500
Our activities 10 Annual Implementation Report 2013 of the EU budget Most audits carried out by the Court in 2014 were devoted to the implementation of the 2013 EU budget.
The 2013 Annual Report, which was produced as a result of this work, was published on 5 November 2014 and presented to our addressees, including the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU (Council of Ecofin and Financial Financial), national parliaments and governments, as well as the media.
The objective of the annual report is to assist the European Parliament, the Council and citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management by presenting their findings and conclusions.
The main element of the annual report for the financial year 2013 is the 20th annual statement on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions.
This report included even more information on the cost-effectiveness of EU spending and on the Commission's performance reporting.
Estimated error rate in the EU budget: 4,7% of President Caldeira when he forwarded the annual report to the President of the European Parliament for the financial year 2013, Martin Schulz.
Our actions 11 The main conclusions of the 2013 Annual Report are that the EU Court delivered an opinion on the reliability of the European Union's 2013 accounts.
The total revenue for 2013 was legal and regular, including with respect to commitments. ο Payments for 2013 were largely affected by errors.
The Court therefore issued a wrong opinion on legality and regularity.
This value is close to the error rate for 2012 (4,8%) and is constantly above the materiality threshold of 2%. ο The most defective are two areas of expenditure: regional policy, transport and energy, with an estimated error rate of 6,9% and rural development, environment, fisheries and health, with an estimated error rate of 6,7%.
The total estimated level of error in shared management was 5,2%. ο Overall, the surveillance and control systems examined in a conditionally effective manner ensured the regularity of payments with significant divergences between Member States.
As in 2012, in the case of a significant proportion of shared management errors, Member States' authorities had sufficient information to detect and correct errors before submitting a request for reimbursement to the Commission. ο Recovery and recovery of funds by Member States' authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Without these measures, the estimated overall return on investment would be 6.3%. ο Using EU funds for the 2007-2013 programming period meant absorption (use it or lose it in case of non-use) and legality rather than good results in the first place.
This lack of focus on results is an important weakness in the way a large part of the EU budget is built.
Our actions 12 Control of transactions in the various areas of EU spending in 2013. Results of the verified amount and most likely error rate 6.9% 3.6% 3.6% 3.6% 6,7 % 4.6% 2.6 % Agricultural expenditure: market support and direct payments Conclusion on controls Regional policy, transport and energy Employment and social development of rural areas, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative and related expenditure 1.0% Errors are largely free of significant errors 0 EUR 10 billion EUR 20 billion EUR 30 billion EUR 50 billion % Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on the quantification errors identified in the statistical sample of transactions) The EU Review Table for 2013 available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
Our actions 13 Agriculture and cohesion: The review of EU spending for the period 2007-2013 The Court published for the first time, in parallel to the annual reports in the 23 official languages of the EU, a document containing a multi-annual perspective on standing positions as a basis for a statement of assurance in two main areas of expenditure: agriculture and cohesion.
He drew conclusions on the problems of EU financial management and control over the last spending period, summarised the results of the audit and presented the challenges of the new spending period 2014-2020.
In addition, including the outline, the European Parliament has expressed its desire to obtain information on shared management in individual countries. ο With the exception of direct aid and market support for farmers in the agricultural sector, the main aspect of the risk associated with expenditure under shared management is that land or animals or costs on which aid payments are based are not eligible for aid, the beneficiaries of the aid do not meet the preconditions and are not correctly calculated.
Violations of agri-environment requirements, specific requirements for investment projects and public procurement rules are important factors to increase the risk of rural development expenditure. ο The greatest risks in cohesion expenditure are cases of breaches of EU or national public procurement rules.
The second biggest risk is that expenditure (or projects) is not eligible for EU funding. ο Although control systems require significant improvements, the biggest challenge is to take action to simplify the management of programmes.
The Court finds errors in all EU Member States.
Despite improved reporting on risks and errors by the Member States' authorities, the Commission continues to find it difficult to ensure the reliability of this information. ο Amendments to the new programming period regulations may not have a significant impact on the level of risk.
Our actions 14 The 2013 Annual Report on the European Development Fund. The European Development Funds (EDFs) are funded by EU Member States and are subject to financial regulations and are managed outside the general budget of the EU.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of actions financed by the EFF.
Within the framework of the EDF, the European Union grants funds for development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs), in accordance with the Cotonou Agreement of 2000.
Expenditure shall aim, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of ACP countries and OCTs into the world economy, to reduce poverty and finally to overcome poverty.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars: development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension.
The Court's 2013 Annual Report on the EDF was published on 5 November 2014 as an annual report on the EU budget.
It contains the 20th EDF Statement of Assurance.
The Court found that the 2013 annual accounts adequately reflect the financial and asset situation of the EDF, the results of its operations and cash flows and the changes in net assets as a whole.
The Court estimated the error rate for EDF expenditure for the financial year 2013 at 3,4%, which means an increase of 3,0% compared to 2012.
Special Annual Reports for the financial year 2013 In 2014, the Court prepared and published 51 annual reports for the financial year 2013.
The reports concerned 41 decentralised EU bodies, executive agencies and agencies, seven EU Joint Undertakings active in research and the European Central Bank, European Schools and communication infrastructure Sisnet.
The Court also published two reports summing up the results of its annual audits for the financial year 2013, one on EU agencies and other bodies, the other on joint research undertakings.
These two comparative analyses and analyses were presented to the President of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Committee on Budgets.
These summaries, together with the special annual reports, are available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
EU agencies, bodies and joint undertakings are prepared on the basis of EU legislation to carry out specific tasks and are established throughout the European Union.
They operate in many areas such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
Each of them shall have a mandate, a management board, a director, a staff and a budget.
While there is a relatively low financial risk to agencies, bodies and joint undertakings for the entire EU budget, the risk of reputation for the Union is high as they are clearly visible in the Member States and have a significant impact on policy-making, decision-making and programme implementation in areas of key importance for European citizens.
51 Special annual reports per year
Our actions 15 The Court issued 41 agencies and other institutions unlimited opinions on the reliability of the 2013 accounts.
Transactions underlying those accounts were lawful and lawful for all agencies and other bodies, with the exception of two in all material respects.
In addition, the accounts were reliable for all seven Joint Undertakings in 2013, but the Court issued a limited opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying their annual accounts: Artemis (integrated ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative).
As far as European schools are concerned, the Court was not able to determine whether the consolidated financial statements for 2013 were free from material false presentations as there were still weaknesses in accounting and control in schools.
The Court examined the conduct of the European Central Bank with its CO2 footprint and concluded that, although the Bank has taken action to reduce the negative impact of its administrative activities on the environment, further efforts and actions are needed.
Special reports adopted in 2014. In addition to annual reports and special annual reports, the Court shall publish, throughout the year, special reports containing the results of economic control and compliance in specific budgetary areas or management issues.
In selecting and shaping audit tasks, the Court seeks to achieve maximum impact and thus to make the best use of its resources.
In the selection of subjects, the Court takes into account the following factors: • the risk of irregularities or greater efficiency in the area of expenditure or policy area; • the potential for added value as a result of the Court's audit; • the political and public interest. 24 Special Reports in 2014.
Our actions 16 The main stages of the selected plan for economic efficiency control or compliance are: on-the-spot control Reporting vote on the report Date of publication Specify the purpose and feasibility of the proposed study; determination of the scope, objectives, approaches, methods and timetable of the audit Multi-disciplinary teams on-the-spot in the Commission's headquarters and in the Member States and beneficiary countries together with a clear and structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions; development of recommendations Confirmation of the facts and findings by the audited entities Adoption of the report by the Audit Chamber or the entire College of the Court Publication of a special report in 23 official languages together with an evaluation body's reply The following pages briefly present the topics of 24 special reports prepared by the Court in 2014, the relevant headings of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, the EU's multiannual budgetary planning.
Our actions 17 Intelligent and Inclusive Growth Smart and Inclusive Growth covers two areas: competitiveness for growth and jobs includes research and innovation, education and training, trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, social policy, business development, etc. EU growth and employment measures for 2014-2020 amount to EUR 142 billion and 13% of the EU budget at current prices respectively.
Economic, social and territorial cohesion includes a regional policy aimed at supporting the least developed EU countries and regions combined with other regions, with a view to strengthening the competitiveness of all regions and developing cooperation between them.
The EU's cohesion funding for 2014-2020 amounts to EUR 367 billion and 34% of the EU budget at current prices respectively.
In 2014, the Court drew up the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of EU-funded public transport projects (No 1/2014) In this special report, the Court assessed the implementation and effectiveness of public transport projects co-financed by the EU Structural Funds in order to determine whether these projects meet the needs of users and achieved their objectives.
The audit showed that two thirds of projects in the field of short transport co-financed by the EU Structural Funds have not been sufficiently used.
This development was mainly due to shortcomings in the design of projects and insufficient mobility policy.
However, these insufficient results were generally not monitored by project promoters or by national authorities.
Most of the projects were based on infrastructure structures and vehicles according to project specifications.
Significant delays and overcosts were found, but almost all the projects audited were in line with users' needs when they were completed.
European cities need to increase mobility and reduce congestion, accidents and pollution through local mobility strategies.
Thanks to co-financed projects, the city received support in the development of urban transport systems such as metro, trams and buses.
Trams and buses are important means of public transport.
Our actions 18 • Have cohesion policy funds for renewable energy production produced good results?
In this special report, the Court examined whether the two main sources of funding supporting renewable energy sources (including the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF) (at the same time) had produced good results, to this end it examined whether the funding had been allocated adequately to priority, cost-effective and mature renewable energy production projects whose objectives were targeted and to what extent they had produced good results that contributed to the EU 2020 renewable energy target.
The audit concluded that improvements were needed so that EU funding could contribute as much as possible to this objective.
The projects audited provided the results as planned and most of the projects were mature and ready to be implemented at the time of selection.
No significant cost overruns or delays were observed and the production capacity for renewable energy production was installed as planned and acted as planned.
However, the results of energy production have not always been achieved or have not been correctly measured.
The total effectiveness of the use of funds was limited as cost-effectiveness in project planning and implementation was not a guiding principle and expenditure had limited added value for the EU.
The EU Council has set a binding EU target of 20% of the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2020.
• Has the ERDF been successful in supporting the development of incubators?
(No 7/2014) In this special report, the Court examined whether start-ups with high growth potential, co-financed by the ERDF, successfully supported start-ups with high growth potential.
The audit concluded that the EU has made a significant financial contribution to the creation of inauguration centres infrastructure, especially in Member States where such support for businesses is relatively rare.
However, the results of the founder centres examined remained unsatisfactory.
The provision of start-up services was rather limited due to financial constraints and a small range of start-up activities.
This situation was mainly due to the lack of expertise in the procedures for start-up aid and the shortcomings in management systems.
Founding centres aim to support new businesses in their creation and development.
Support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) has become an increasingly political priority over time.
For the period 2007-2013, EU expenditure in this area amounted to EUR 38 billion.
The building is co-financed by the ERDF in the technology park Wrocław.
Our actions 19 • Is the ERDF effective in financing projects aimed at direct support for biodiversity under the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2020?
(No 12/2014) in this special report, the Court examined whether the ERDF resources available for direct support to biodiversity were used by Member States.
The audit showed that Member States are lagging behind using ERDF resources to finance projects compared to other areas of ERDF expenditure.
In order for the ERDF to continue to be useful in implementing the EU Strategy to reduce biodiversity loss by 2020, the Commission should further support Member States in implementing specific conservation and management plans for habitats and natural species.
Projects co-financed were broadly in line with biodiversity priorities at national and EU level.
However, the assessment of the effectiveness of these projects has been undermined by the fact that most Member States have not added performance indicators or monitoring systems to assess the development of natural habitats and species.
The protection of biodiversity is one of the EU's key priorities.
After not achieving the 2010 target of reducing biodiversity loss in Europe, the Council approved a new strategy by 2020 and direct support for biodiversity and nature protection was allocated to ERDF funding of €2.8 billion during the 2007-2013 programming period. • Has ERDF support been effective for SMEs in the e-commerce sector?
In this special report, the Court assessed whether operational programmes provided a good basis for effective support for e-commerce activities for SMEs, whether management bodies had correctly selected and monitored e-commerce projects and whether projects co-financed by the ERDF had been implemented effectively and brought tangible benefits.
The Court found that ERDF support for SMEs in the e-commerce sector supported the purchase and sale of goods via the Internet, helping to increase the availability of online business services.
However, due to shortcomings in monitoring, it was not possible to assess the extent to which ERDF support contributed to the achievement of the IT objectives of the Member States and the EU.
Insufficient procedures for selecting Member States lead to an apparent error in the cost/benefit ratio for many projects.
Programme managers focused more on using resources (outputs) than on achieving results.
The Commission supports e-commerce through its Digital Agenda for Europe.Within the ERDF budget for 2007-2013, EU funds of EUR 3 billion have been allocated to improve the use of ICT by SMEs.The Court's video on Special Report No 20/2014 on whether the ERDF is effective in financing projects aimed at direct support of biodiversity in the framework of the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020?
Our actions 20 Approaching economic control: Airport infrastructure financed by the EU budget for costs and benefits (No 21/2014) Inappropriate cost-benefit ratio (No 21/2014) Closed part of the oversized terminal at Fuerteventura airport.
Although EU aviation policy aims to address capacity problems, Europe will not be able to meet a large part of this demand, as there is a lack of track and ground infrastructure, with the aim of building additional infrastructure, making better use of existing structures, optimising airport services and better connecting with other modes of transport.
There are more than 500 airports in Europe with a direct or indirect employment of one million employees and with airlines contributing to the European economic performance of more than EUR 140 billion.
Airport infrastructure projects are an important area of EU budget expenditure: over the period 2000-2006, the EU allocated around €4.5 billion to such projects, of which over €2.8 billion was allocated from cohesion policy funds.
As part of the economic control of this support, the Court examined whether the investments were properly needed, whether the time and cost frames were respected in construction projects and whether the newly built or modernised infrastructure had been fully used.
The Court assessed whether the investments led to an increase in passenger numbers and improved after-sales service and whether the supported airports were financially stable.
The auditors carried out their work between May 2013 and October 2014, focusing on 20 EU airports in Estonia, Greece, Italy, Poland and Spain.
The total EU budget for these airports between 2000 and 2013 amounted to more than EUR 600 million.
The team reviewed relevant legislation, air traffic planning in five Member States and the publication of major interbranch organisations.
In particular, the auditors visited 20 airports to assess the results, use, results and effects and the economic situation of airports and to obtain direct evidence that they were obtained from EU funds.
The Court found that the cost-benefit ratio of EU-funded investments to airports was not consistent.
Too many airports, which were often close together, received financial support for similar infrastructures, and in many cases the infrastructure was too extensive.
Only half of the airports audited managed to increase the number of passengers.
The improvement in customer service and regional socio-economic benefits, such as the creation of additional jobs, has not been measured and no evidence has been provided.
In addition, the audit showed that seven airports were not self-financing and would have difficulty maintaining their activities without further support from the public authorities.
For most airports surveyed, the audit team noted significant delays in the construction and provision of infrastructure.
For almost half of airports, costs were exceeded, which means that Member States had to pay almost EUR 100 million from their national budgets more than originally planned.
Our actions 21 Funding was not well coordinated by Member States: most countries did not have a strategic airport development plan.
In addition, the Commission did not fully monitor the financing which is generally not known to airports which receive or are concerned.
In this way, it will not have a full picture of all EU investments in airports and will have limited possibilities to ensure monitoring and ensuring proper development and implementation of the strategy.
On the basis of these findings, the Court recommended to the Commission that, starting from the 2014-2020 programming period, Member States use EU funds exclusively for airport infrastructure which are financially viable and whose investment needs have been properly assessed and demonstrated.
Another recommendation was that Member States should have coherent airport development plans at regional, national and transnational level in order to avoid overcapacity, duplication and uncoordinated investments in airport infrastructure.
In its reply, the Commission ensured that lessons were learned from these experiences.
In this context, the Commission has ensured that a different approach will be applied substantially in the relevant provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period.
The report was presented to the European Parliament, which fully supports the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The publication of the report was of great interest to the media.
The media response was greatest in Spain, but it also included headlines in important international newspapers, television news and social media.
From left to right: Afonso de Castro Malheiro, Jasmine Mitterbuchner, Patrick Weldon, Mircea Radulescu, Pietro Puricella, Joël Costantzer, George Pufan (Member of the Court responsible for the report), Fernando Pascual Gil, Luc T. Joen, Tomasz Plebanowicz, Lorenzo Pirelli, Efstatios Varetidis, Jelena Magermane, Erki Must.
Our actions 22 Sustainable growth: EU natural resources have a strong political responsibility in agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2014-2020 is EUR 420 billion and 39% of the EU budget at current prices.
Three quarters of the expenditure concern direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF) under the strongest pillar of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
The next fifth part of the expenditure concerns EU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), second pillar of the CAP.
Agriculture and rural development shall be managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2014, the Court drew up the following special reports in this area: • Inclusion of EU water policy objectives in the CAP: partial success (No 4/2014) in this special report The Court assessed whether the objectives of EU water policy were successfully integrated into the common agricultural policy (CAP).
The audit showed that the EU can only partially achieve the objectives of water policy within the CAP.
Two instruments for integrating water-related issues (compliance with cross compliance and rural development) are insufficient and the implementation of the Water Framework Directive is characterised by fluctuations and weaknesses.
The CAP instruments have so far had a positive impact on supporting policy objectives for improving water quantity and quality.
However, these instruments are limited compared to the ambitious objectives of the CAP.
For example, none of these two instruments allows the "polluter pays" principle to be fully applied to the financing of the CAP.
Moreover, at the level of EU institutions and Member States there is insufficient knowledge of and development of the burden on agricultural activities in relation to water resources.
The EU attaches great importance to the protection of European water resources.
Agriculture as one of the largest consumers and polluting water resources has a key role to play in sustainable water management.
The CAP allocates almost 40% of the EU budget (over EUR 50 billion for 2014) and the EU seeks to influence agricultural procedures affecting water resources.
Our actions 23 • Did the Commission effectively manage the integration of coupled support into the single payment scheme?
(No 8/2014) in this special report, the Court assessed how the Commission, following the 2008 CAP Health Check, managed well the inclusion in the single EU support scheme related to production (e.g. managed land or number of livestock).
The audit showed that during the period 2010-2012, the Commission did not adequately monitor the calculation by Member States of farmers' entitlements for payments from EU funds to agricultural holdings under the single payment scheme.
Although most Member States have used farmers' reference data correctly, there have been serious shortcomings in the correct application of the rules and calculation rules.
The Commission has not used its mandate to ensure that the criteria for allocating available support have always been in line with EU rules, in line with the principle of sound financial management and have no potential impact on market conditions.
Within the framework established by the Commission, it was not clear enough what checks are to be carried out by the Member States and the Member States' control systems differed in quality; the main objective of the single payment scheme was to shift the orientation of the CAP from market support to income support for farmers which are not linked to production volume: farm owners should be able to adapt their production to market demand and their income should be stabilised.
The single payment scheme introduced so far in 18 Member States represents 54% of the total EU budget for agriculture and rural development. • Is EU support for investment and promotion in the wine sector well managed and is there evidence that EU wines are competitive?
In its special report, the Court assessed whether investment and sales promotion activities had been adequately developed and examined the available monitoring and evaluation data to determine whether the Commission and the Member States had achieved the desired results effectively.
The audit showed that the management of support for investment and promotion in the wine sector was weakened by shortcomings in design and implementation and that the impact on the competitiveness of EU wines could not always be demonstrated.
Investment activities specifically targeted at the wine sector are not justified as support is already provided under EU rural development policy.
EU support for the promotion of wines has often served to consolidate existing markets rather than to create new or recover old markets.
The effects of the investment action cannot easily be separated from investments for rural development.
The EU is the world's largest wine producer.
EU support is aimed at increasing competitiveness and ensuring a better balance between supply and demand.
Between 2009 and 2013, Member States spent EUR 522 million on promotion measures and EUR 518 million on investments.
The measures granted to Member States under this measure increased significantly between 2014 and 2018.
Our actions 24 • Effectiveness of aquaculture assistance (No 10/2014) provided by the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) in this special report The Court assessed whether aquaculture support measures were well designed and implemented at EU and Member State level and whether the EDF provided an adequate cost-benefit ratio and supported the sustainable development of aquaculture.
The audit showed that by 2013 aquaculture support measures were not well developed and implemented at EU and Member State level, that the EFF did not provide an adequate cost/benefit ratio and did not provide effective support for the sustainable development of aquaculture.
The current framework was not adequate to achieve the EU's objectives for the sustainable development of aquaculture and the results were not sufficient.
Actions to promote the sustainable development of aquaculture in the Member States have not been well designed and implemented.
The Member States' national strategic plans and operational programmes were not clear enough and the Member States did not have a coherent strategy for this sector.
In many cases, EDF funds have not been sufficiently targeted at aquaculture projects and the audit has shown that these projects do not usually deliver the expected results or provide a good cost/benefit ratio.
Every year aquaculture produces 1.3 million tonnes of fish in the EU, with a turnover of EUR 4 billion.
One of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) for the period up to 2013 was to promote the sustainable development of aquaculture.
By May 2013, more than EUR 400 million were allocated under the EFF to finance productive investments and environmental and health policies in the aquaculture sector. • A cost-efficient economy: the cost of EU funding for rural development projects (No 22/2014) in this special report should be maintained, the Court examined whether the approach taken by the Commission and the Member States was most effective in controlling the costs of rural development aid.
The audit showed that EU Member States could achieve significant savings in aid for rural development projects while ensuring a more efficient use of resources.
Auditors have identified feasible and cost-effective approaches that could be more widespread with regard to the control of the costs of rural development aid by Member States.
Member States' control systems were designed to control the prices of the goods or works referred to in the aid applications, without paying equal attention to whether the goods themselves were adjusted.
Some price controls were time-consuming or did not provide sufficient assurance that the approved costs were appropriate.
At the beginning of the programming period, the Commission did not provide sufficient guidance or ensure dissemination of procedures which are not appropriate.
It did not ensure that Member States' systems were effective before this aid was granted on a large scale.
About half of the EU's rural development expenditure for 2007-2013 amounted to EUR 100 billion and was then implemented in the form of grants for investment projects and other projects carried out by farmers, agricultural enterprises, associations and local authorities.
Our actions 25 • Errors in rural development expenditure: What are the reasons and actions for removing them?
(No 23/2014) in this special report, the Court examined compliance with the applicable laws and regulations in the implementation of rural development and identified the main reasons for the high level of error in this area.
The audit showed that most of the errors in rural development policy are due to a breach of the conditions laid down at Member State level.
Member States' control authorities could and should have detected and corrected most of the errors in rural development investment activities.
Member States' control systems are insufficient as controls are not exhaustive and are based on insufficient information.
The average error rate in rural development expenditure over the last three years was 8.2%.
The investment error was two thirds of the error rate and the area aid was one third.
Only 16 percent of the errors were due to non-compliance directly with EU regulations, while the largest percentage of infringements was due to breaches of the conditions established at Member State level.
During the 2007-2013 programming period, the EU and the Member States have allocated more than EUR 150 billion to rural development policy, which has been used in almost equal parts for investment and area aid.
• Is EU aid to prevent and repair forest damage well managed in connection with natural disasters and natural disasters?
(No 24/2014) in this special report, the Court assessed whether the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) support measure for forest recovery and the introduction of preventive measures (measure 226) was well managed and whether the Commission and the Member States could demonstrate that the objectives of the aid were achieved in a cost-effective manner.
The audit showed that EU funding to prevent forest fires and restore forests affected by natural disasters and fires has not been adequately managed.
The Commission and the Member States are unable to understand that the results achieved in terms of funding have been achieved in a cost-effective manner.
Over the last 30 years, fires in the EU have destroyed an average of 480 000 hectares of forest per year.
Preventive actions accounted for more than 80% of EU funds of €1.5 million for the period 2007-2013.
Our actions 26 Security and citizenship This policy area has been established to ensure the free movement of persons and provide citizens with a high level of protection.
It covers from the management of the EU's external borders to judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, as well as asylum and immigration policies, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
It is estimated that expenditure on this area for the period 2014-2020 amounts to EUR 18 million or less than 2% of the total budget.
In 2014, the Court drew up the following special reports in this area: • Conclusions from the development by the European Commission (No 3/2014) of the SIS II Information System (SIS II) (including a special report) in order to examine why the Commission provided SIS II more than six years later than planned and incurred eight times the costs originally foreseen.
It has been verified that there has been a durable SIS II business model throughout the project, taking into account significant changes in costs and expected benefits.
The audit showed that delays and excessive costs were caused by shortcomings in the Commission's management.
The original deadline was unrealistic and the Commission was not able to effectively manage the main development contract before 2009.
The actual level of investment needed was clearly underestimated in the initial cost estimates.
The total cost of SIS II amounted to EUR 189 million, which initially corresponds to the estimated amount of EUR 23 million.
The Commission has not fully demonstrated that SIS II provides its best cost-benefit ratio.
However, the Commission has learned lessons from the first stage of the project and has already used them for other major IT projects.
The Schengen Information System shall be used by border, police, customs, visa and judicial authorities throughout the Schengen area.
It shall contain information (s) concerning persons who may have been involved in a serious crime or who do not have the right to enter or stay in the EU.
• The External Borders Fund has contributed to increased financial solidarity, but the evaluation of results needs to be improved and added value for the EU (No 15/2014) in this special report, the Court assessed the effectiveness and added value of the External Borders Fund in the European Union and examined to what extent the objectives of the projects and programmes financed by the Union have been achieved.
The audit showed that the External Borders Fund contributed to the management of the EU's external borders and to greater financial solidarity between Member States.
However, its added value for the EU was limited and the results could not be measured due to shortcomings in the monitoring by the competent authorities and serious shortcomings in the assessments at the level of the Commission and the Member States.
Member States' programmes were not included in national border control strategies and visa policies and did not contain SMART objectives or measurable indicators.
The project selection procedures did not ensure that the real needs of the Member States were met.
Unsatisfactory procurement procedures in the Member States pose a threat to the cost-effectiveness of household use.
The majority of the Member States concerned (Greece, Spain, Italy and Malta in the first years of funding) had four weaknesses in the management of the Fund.
The External Borders Fund 2007-2013 was the main EU financial instrument supporting the protection of external borders of EUR 1.9 billion.
Its overarching objective was to support the current and future Schengen countries in ensuring uniform, effective and effective controls at their common external borders.
Our actions 27 Europe in the world The EU's external relations activities have the following priorities: enlargement, stability, security and prosperity in the neighbourhood, active promotion of sustainable development on the international stage, promoting global political governance and ensuring strategic and civil security.
In the period 2014-2020, the EU allocated EUR 66 billion and 6 percent of planned expenditure respectively.
The Commission shall manage expenditure directly through its central services or delegations.
In 2014, the Court drew up the following special reports in this area: • the establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS) (EEAS) (No 11/2014) in this special report, the Court examined whether the establishment of the EEAS had been properly prepared as to whether its resources had been effectively prioritised, organised and allocated, and whether it had effectively coordinated with the Commission and the Member States.
The audit concluded that the EEAS should increase its efficiency and make more for the EU and its citizens.
The establishment of the EEAS was premature and was not well prepared.
The lack of priorities, organisation and allocation of resources has led to a reduction in their effectiveness.
Coordination between the EEAS and the Commission was only partially effective, mainly due to the lack of effective coordination mechanisms and the rigid financial and administrative framework at the level of the Delegate.
Coordination with Member States may be strengthened to exploit synergies in the exchange of information or shared accommodation and to improve consular services, including the protection of EU citizens.
The EEAS shall have its headquarters in Brussels and shall consist of a global network of 140 delegations.
In 2014, the EEAS had a budget of EUR 519 million, divided between headquarters (41%) and delegations (59%). • EU aid for rehabilitation after the earthquake in Haiti (No 13/2014) in this special report, the Court examined whether EU aid for rehabilitation was well designed and implemented and whether the Commission ensured an appropriate link between emergency aid and recovery and development measures.
The audit showed that EU aid for rehabilitation after the earthquake in Haiti in 2010 was generally well designed and targeted towards the country's priority needs, but that these programmes were not implemented effectively enough and that emergency aid, rehabilitation and development were not sufficiently linked.
For most programmes audited, the results were either carried out according to the plan or their implementation varied, although almost all programmes were delayed.
Although the Commission was aware of the difficult situation, it did not sufficiently take into account certain important risks that threaten the achievement and achievement of the objectives of the programme.
The programmes have been monitored but the Commission and the EEAS have not taken action in time to increase the resources of the EU Delegation to Haiti.
In March 2010, 55 donors granted USD 5.4 billion for the period 2010-2012 for rehabilitation and development and another USD 3.0 billion for 2013 and later.
The European Union was one of the most important donors, adopting an individual amount of EUR 1.2 billion.
Our actions 28 • The effectiveness of combining financial assistance with regional investment instruments with loans from financial institutions to support EU external policy (No 16/2014) in this special report, the Court has dealt with the creation and management of investment instruments and wondered whether mixed funding has benefited from the intended benefits.
As part of the audit, a positive mixed financing decision was issued, i.e. a combination of financial assistance from regional investment instruments with loans from financial institutions to support the EU's external policy in terms of structure and overall effectiveness, but the Court also draws attention to a number of key issues that need to be addressed urgently.
Although these instruments have been well developed, the potential benefits of combined funding have not been fully financed due to shortcomings in the Commission's management of them.
Almost half of the projects examined did not have sufficient evidence that the grants were justified.
In some cases, investments would probably be made without an EU contribution.
The Commission should ensure that the allocation is based on an accurate and documented distribution of added value in relation to the achievement of the EU's development, neighbourhood and enlargement policy objectives.
Since 2007, the Commission has created eight regional investment instruments.
They combine grants from the EFF and the general EU budget with loans mainly from European financial institutions for development.
• Can the European initiative of centres of excellence effectively contribute to reducing chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) threats from outside the EU?
(No 17/2014) in this special report, the Court assessed whether the initiative was based on a sound analysis of the situation prior to 2010, whether the organisational structure of the initiative was adequate to meet the identified challenges and whether there was an adequate governance system and whether it was applied.
As part of the audit, the Court assessed in general the contribution of centres of excellence to reducing the risk associated with CBRNs.
This initiative is in line with the priorities set out in the European Security Strategy and the EU Strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
It provides for the involvement of all stakeholders in partner countries in order to improve the sustainability of the actions undertaken.
The organisational structure is generally appropriate, but its complexity has contributed to the delay in starting business.
The Centres of Excellence initiative aims at setting up regional platforms in different regions of the world to address CBRN risks.
This is the largest single measure under the long-term component of the Instrument for Stability and has been provided with a budget of EUR 100 million for the period 2010-2013.
Our actions 29 • Within EuropeAid (No 18/2014), the Court has examined whether these systems are reliable, whether their structure and resources are adequate and whether they ensure that adequate and relevant arrangements are made and that they can be used as far as possible.
As part of the audit, the Court made a critical assessment of the reliability of these systems.
The bodies responsible for evaluation and performance-based monitoring are well organised, but more attention should be paid to the efficient use of resources.
These systems do not provide sufficient information on the results obtained and do not ensure the greatest possible use of the findings.
Evaluations of projects and programmes organised by Commission delegations and carried out in partner countries are not satisfactorily managed: overall monitoring is not appropriate, there is uncertainty about the size of resources used and lack of access to results.
The two main elements of the legal framework for the European Commission's Directorate-General for Development and Cooperation (EuropeAid) calculation obligations are their performance-based evaluation and monitoring systems.
The total annual cost of the schemes is estimated at EUR 34-38 million.
The annual development expenditure covered by these schemes is estimated at around EUR 8 billion. • EU pre-accession assistance to Serbia (No 19/2014) in this special report The Court examined whether the Commission effectively managed pre-accession assistance to Serbia for the period 2007-2013, while assessing its support for key aspects of governance.
Together with other forms of support, the resources available under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) have contributed to Serbia's implementation of social and economic reforms and improved public finance management.
Based on the experience gained with other IPA beneficiary countries, the Commission attaches increasing importance to management issues when planning financial and non-financial assistance for Serbia.
The Commission has effectively managed non-financial assistance to Serbia in the management and fight against corruption.
With regard to Serbia's preparations for managing EU funds, the Commission has also provided effective support but only to a limited extent of IPA governance structures.
One quarter of IPA funds were allocated to Serbia for management, which, according to the Commission, is the country's biggest challenge.
The EU complements IPA funding through a number of non-financial measures to help Serbia prepare for EU membership.
Our activities 30 Management Administrative expenditure of EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes staff (staff and pensions) and expenditure on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technologies.
The planned budget for 2014-2020 is EUR 70 million and 6 percent of the EU budget at current prices.
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report: • How do EU institutions and bodies calculate, reduce and compensate for their greenhouse gas emissions?
(No 14/2014) in this special report, the Court assessed whether EU institutions and bodies had strategies to reduce the environmental impact of their administrative activities and whether these strategies had been effectively implemented.
In its report, the Court called on EU institutions and bodies to develop a common political approach to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 fingerprints in h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
The introduction of an eco-management and audit system is slow and the information available on actual emissions is insufficient.
Few institutions and bodies systematically use environmental contracts.
While EU institutions and bodies have managed to reverse the trend of energy-related greenhouse gas emissions in their buildings, the available data indicate that there are no clear trends in the reduction of other sources of emissions, such as business trips.
More than half of the EU institutions and bodies audited have not set any quantitative targets for reducing emissions.
EU environmental policy aims to achieve a high level of protection.
The Treaty (TFEU) requires that environmental requirements be taken into account in the definition and implementation of Union policies and actions to promote sustainable development.
Our actions 31 Revenue and own resources are EU revenue to finance expenditure.
There are three types of own resources: traditional own resources (customs collected outside the EU and sugar production levies), VAT-based own resources and GNI-based own resources (the largest revenue source in the EU budget).
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report: • Are preferential trade schemes managed in a proportionate manner?
(No 2/2014) in this report, the Court assessed whether the Commission had properly assessed the economic effects of the preferential trade arrangements and whether the checks effectively ensured that imports could not be subject to unfair preferential customs duties as a result of the loss of EU revenue.
The audit showed that although the Commission has improved the quality of impact assessments over time, it still does not sufficiently analyse the economic impact of preferential trade schemes.
The EU is losing revenue due to shortcomings in customs controls in the Member States: these controls do not prevent certain imports of false preferential duties.
Through unilateral preferential trade arrangements, the EU grants preference to developing countries in order to ensure their duty-free access to the EU market and thus contribute to poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development.
In 2011, the value of products imported into the EU under preferential trade arrangements exceeded EUR 242 billion, representing 14% of imports into the EU.
Our actions 32 Financial and economic governance The European Union's economic governance framework aims to prevent, detect and correct problematic economic developments, such as excessive budget deficits or debt, which may hamper economic growth and put public finances at risk.
In 2014, the Court adopted its first Special Report on the subject: • the European Banking Authority (EBA) in a changing environment (No 5/2014) in this Special Report, the Court examined whether the Commission and the European Banking Authority (EBA) were satisfied with their competence to establish new regulatory and supervisory rules in the banking sector and their effectiveness.
The audit showed that the Commission's reform of banking legislation and the creation of EBA were the first important responses to the financial crisis.
EBA has created the basis for a new system of regulation and supervision in the banking sector.
The identified shortcomings concerned cross-border banking supervision, assessment of the resilience of EU banks and promotion of consumer protection.
In view of the stress tests carried out in 2011, which were carried out at EU level without definitive financial guarantees, EBA had a limited legal mandate and limited human resources.
Although the stress test led to the recapitalisation of many banks in 2011, it also showed that such stress tests are limited if they are not linked to the assessment of the quality of total assets.
Questions remain concerning the future role of EBA in banking supervision and the respective roles and responsibilities of EBA and the ECB.
As a result of the financial crisis, the Commission has taken steps to stabilise the banking sector with a view to strengthening the regulatory framework and banking supervision, in particular for banks operating across borders.
EBA was established in 2011 as part of the detailed proposals for regulatory changes.
EBA plays a role in overseeing European banking regulations and protecting consumers.
Our actions 33 Opinions and other statements adopted in 2014. In its opinions on proposals for new or revised legislative acts having financial implications, the Court contributes to improving the EU's financial management.
These opinions are issued at the request of other EU institutions and are used by legislative bodies in the framework of the work of the European Parliament and the Council.
The Court may also, on its own initiative, issue documents and analyses on other matters.
At the Court's initiative, the European Court of Auditors presented the state of play on the Commission's report on the fight against corruption, while a study on possible savings in the EU budget was carried out by combining the European Parliament's activities in one place at the request of the European Parliament.
7 comments in 2014
Our actions 34 The analysis of Landscape 2014 was a profound novelty for the European Union.
In the context of these changes, the Court has developed and developed a new product: Landscape analysis.
On the basis of the results of the Court's work and its knowledge and experience, each analysis covers a wide range of issues.
The analyses should form the basis for consultation and dialogue with the Court's address group and help the Court to comment on important issues which are not subject to scrutiny.
The first analysis of Landscape, published in September 2014, raised issues relating to the responsibility and financial control of the EU (see box), which was the main basis of the EU's reporting obligation conference in October 2014 (see page 42).
In November 2014, a two-track study entitled "EU Money' was published: an analysis of the risk associated with EU financial management in that country was published in November 2014.
It provides an overview of the EU's financial flows and a summary of the topics to be addressed in order, inter alia, to ensure a better cost-benefit balance for EU taxpayers with regard to the EU budget (see box).
Opinions and analyses of Landscape are available in 23 official EU languages on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
2 2 Landscape analysis in 2014
Our actions 35 Lukes, duplication and challenges: an analysis of the EU's public responsibility and control system The aim of this analysis is to realise the issue that is essential for the democratic legitimacy of the EU institutional system and to encourage it to be taken over.
It describes the basic features of the accountability framework, the role of public financial control, the key elements of a robust chain of responsibility and financial control, as well as six important areas where accountability and financial control challenges are at EU level, and examines the principles of accountability and financial control for the various new EU and intergovernmental instruments developed in response to the financial crisis.
Optimum use of EU funds: Landscape analysis on the risk to EU financial management At a time when governments and taxpayers of Member States want the funds they are bringing more benefits, the Landscape analysis summarises the Court's observations on all aspects of EU financial management.
Based on the Court's 35-year experience in controlling EU revenue and expenditure, this analysis includes an overview of the EU's financial management and a summary of the issues that need to be addressed in order to ensure a better cost-benefit ratio for the EU budget.
This analysis will be complemented by detailed data on the main features and topics related to the various areas of revenue and expenditure and proposals for improvement.
Our actions 36 The analysis identified a number of key issues that deserve particular attention: ο overly complex eligibility schemes and other EU funding conditions that hinder their understanding, management and control and lead to different interpretations; ο public procurement rules and procedures that are not always respected; they are therefore not well understood; therefore lead to higher costs or delays in the implementation of EU funded projects; ο insufficient capacity of national authorities to manage and pay EU funds, which increases the risk of errors and poor quality of expenditure; ο poor coordination of EU budget and national budgets, lack of funding for co-financing by Member States and greater emphasis on compliance than results; ο high level of commitments from the previous spending period that still need to be financed from the EU budget.
Framework of responsibility for the management and financial control of the European Parliament and the Council (MS) European Audit Court of Auditors European Commission and Member States management bodies Chart of the analysis of EU rules on public responsibility and control.
Reporting on liability: Transparency of responsibility for the implementation of the EU budget on the basis of agreements Reporting on audit: Independent, objective information Audit mandate on the basis of contracts
Our actions 37 Relations with addressees The value of the Court's contribution to the EU's accounting obligation depends to a large extent on the benefits its main partners derive from the results of work and production in the accountability process.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funds (i.e. the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments).
In its 2013-2017 strategy, the Court is obliged to take more decisive action to monitor the external development and active development of relations with partners.
The President and the Members of the Court shall maintain regular contacts with the European Parliament's committees, in particular the Trolli Commission.
In 2014, Mr Caldeira attended two meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and a number of plenary sessions of the European Parliament.
This includes presentation of the annual work programme and annual reports.
One of the Court's strategic objectives is to strengthen the partnership with its main addressees, including the various committees specialised in the European Parliament and the Council.
In April 2014, the Court gave Ville Itälä a new role as a member of institutional relations, which contributed to strengthening relations between our institution and other EU institutions strategically and increasing the chances of achieving greater impact through our work.
In 2014, the other members of the Court had 64 meetings before the Commission in connection with the Court's annual reports and special reports.
The discussions resulted in reports drawn up by individual members of the Committee on Budgetary Control on the Court's special reports, including a draft report on the special reports in connection with the 2013 discharge procedure.
In 2014, the Committee on Budgetary Control started systematically inviting technical committees to its meetings on the concept of our reports, thus contributing to the impact of our work.
At the beginning of 2014, the European Parliament adopted a report on the future role of the European Court of Auditors.
The Court welcomed the position expressed in this report that each reform should be considered in the broader context of the challenge of improving the EU's reporting obligation.
This applies in particular to the Court's work, its relations with the addressees and the use of resources.
Progress in this area has been highlighted in the report published in 2014 (see "Important events" and "Important events").
Our actions 38 In many cases, as part of the implementation of the 2013-2017 strategy, the Court has already launched a number of initiatives aimed at improving the audit and reporting process and greater flexibility in the organisation of resources.
This has led to an increase in the number of reports per year and a reduction in the average time needed to develop them.
Further productivity gains and efficiency of the audit process - an internal reform project launched in 2014 is expected.
In its resolution of November 2013, the European Parliament asked the Court to provide a comprehensive analysis of the potential savings for the EU budget if Parliament had one seat, taking into account the savings resulting from less work time and more efficiency.
The Court presented the results of this work in July 2014 and concluded that moving from Strasbourg to Brussels could lead to significant savings, which were slightly higher as a result of an additional move from Luxembourg to Brussels.
In 2014, the Court continued its regular cooperation with the Council in various compositions and activities.
The President of Caldeira presented the annual reports to the ECOFIN Council in December 2014 and the Court was regularly invited to submit special reports to the various Council committees and working parties.
Another priority of the Court is to ensure effective relations with national parliaments.
The permanent committees of national parliaments dealing with European affairs and financial control shall be regularly informed of the Court's activities.
During the year, delegations from several national parliaments visited the Court, including a delegation from the French Senate in July 2014.
In addition, the Court invited the main addresses of its members' annual seminar in December 2014 to present to them its position on the challenges of accountability in the EU.
The Court cooperates with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to combat fraud related to part of the EU budget.
It shall provide OLAF with any information relating to fraud, corruption or other illegal activities which may have a negative impact on the EU's financial interests in the framework of its verification work or provided to it by third parties.
In 2014, the Court informed OLAF of 16 cases of suspected fraud, corruption or unlawful acts in connection with control work.
Our activities 39 Cooperation with other supreme audit bodies The Court cooperates with other supreme audit bodies (ORKBs) mainly in the following bodies: • the ORKB Contact Committee of EU Member States; • the ORC network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • the International Organisation for the Control of Public Finances, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
In September 2014, the Court amended and updated its international cooperation strategy (see box).
EUROSAI Congress, Hague, June 2014
The strategy for international cooperation The Court's cooperation strategy aims, in line with its overall strategy for 2013-2017, to contribute as much as possible to the EU's public responsibility, in particular through enhanced bilateral and multilateral cooperation with relevant partners such as national supreme audit bodies and international audit organisations.
Given that the Court's audit responsibilities include areas with pan-European (e.g. fiscal management) and global (e.g. climate change), our actions in the field of international cooperation are even more important than in the past.
As part of its cooperation strategy, the Court has the following priorities: ο Cooperation at EU level within the Contact Committee and individual cooperation with the CCCs of the EU Member States will continue to be key priorities.
This may include participation in joint controls and joint work in the area of responsibility related to the EU budget and other EU policies. ο In the context of enlargement, the Court will support the ERC of candidate countries and potential candidate countries in their activities to develop expertise. ο Court, as a member of international audit organisations such as INTOSAI, will increase its participation in cooperation to define technical standards as this organisation is important for the development of expertise and knowledge exchange in the public finance sector.
As part of its cooperation strategy, in conjunction with other recent activities such as new high-level conferences and meetings, the Court will contribute to raising awareness of the EU's financial management and accountability obligations.
Our actions 40 Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the EU Member States In accordance with the Treaty on European Union, the European Constitutional Court and the national audit authorities cooperate fully while maintaining their independence.
The Court is actively working within the Contact Committee with EU Member States, including the various working groups, networks and task forces set up to address specific issues of common interest.
In October 2013, the Court took over the Presidency of the Contact Committee for a period of one year.
As President, the Court held an annual meeting of the Contact Committee held in October 2014.
One of the most important items on the agenda was the seminar on strengthening cooperation, in particular in areas related to the Europe 2020 strategy and the Banking Union, reporting on the activities of the Contact Committee and its technical partners, as well as the audits carried out by the Contact Committee with the EU.
The Court also cooperates bilaterally with EU Member States.
A good example of this is the project carried out jointly by the Court and the ORKB of Poland, the Supreme Chamber of Control, in which Polish ORB controllers actively participated in our verification work in Poland in the field of the eradication, control and monitoring of animal diseases.
In addition, in the context of the Scoreboard, the Court cooperates with the ORB of Poland and Portugal on the Europe 2020 strategy in order to draw up an annual report for the financial year 2014.
Meeting of the Contact Committee in Luxembourg on 15 and 17 October 2014
Our activities 41 The Network of Supreme Audit Authorities in candidate countries and potential candidate countries Cooperation between the Court and the Single Market Observatory of candidate countries and potential candidate countries is primarily carried out through a network comparable to the Contact Committee1.
In 2014, the Court supported the network in carrying out parallel economic control of energy efficiency, in particular by offering expert expertise and methodology for economic control.
In 2014, under Objective 1 INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for Technical Standards and the Sub-Committee for Audit of Financial Statements, the Sub-Committee for the Evaluation of Legal Standards and the Economic Control Sub-Committee, • as part of Objective 2 INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for the Development of Competences and the Sub-Committee for the Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through voluntary peer reviews; • as part of Objective 3 INTOSAI as a member of the Knowledge Exchange Committee and its Working Party on Environmental Assessment and the Working Party on Financial Modernisation and Regulatory Reform.
In addition, he attended the meeting of the EUROSAI Bureau, to which he belonged since 2011, and the Court continued to actively participate in the EUROSAI working parties, in particular the IT study and the environmental study of the Working Group, the Monitoring Committee on the establishment and functioning of an electronic database of good research quality practices and the audit and ethics task force.
The Court also joined the newly created working group on the audit of civil protection assistance.
At the Joint Conferences of Regional Working Groups INTOSAI, the Court actively participated in the 2nd Joint Conference ASOSAI2 EUROSAI, focusing on the experience gained with the adoption of the ISSAI3 and their future implications.
1 In January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and a potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has been participating in the network as an observer. * This name does not affect positions on Kosovo's status and is in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the declaration of Kosovo's independence.
2 Asian Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions.
3 International standards for the highest control bodies.
Our activities 42 Main events International Court evaluation in 2013 requested the ORKB of France, Germany and Sweden to conduct a specialist assessment (peer review) of its economic control practice.
The peer review was based on the experience of all three partners and was very useful both for the Court and for experts.
This methodology was based on the generally accepted working criteria of the ORKB and took into account the guidelines contained in international standards.
This assessment was published in 2014 on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
The Court has made significant progress since its last peer review in 2008.
The Court examined the challenges of the complex institutional framework of the EU and took a number of steps to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of its controls and the quality of the audit reports.
International control rules encourage international peer reviews.
They enable the highest audit authorities to obtain a voluntary assessment of the performance of their tasks, based on international standards.
In 2014, the Court carried out a peer review of Lithuania's Supreme Audit Authority and was invited to assess the financial control of the jurors and to participate in the peer review of the Spanish ORKB and Lett-lands.
High-level conference on improving accountability in the EU From left to right: Jacques Sciberras, Head of Cabinet, Kevin Cardiff, Member of the Court, Vítor Caldeira and Vice-President Olli Rehn.
In October 2014, the Court organised a high-level conference involving a number of people responsible for ensuring that the European Union fulfils its public responsibility for its objectives.
The conference focused on gaps, overruns and challenges at EU and Member State level as defined in the Court's analysis on the system of public responsibility and control (see page 35).
The conference was an opportunity for discussion between participants, including members or representatives of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Court, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Stability Mechanism, national settlement and science tribunals.
The emphasis was placed on accountability in the EU, in particular with regard to central banks and supervisors, crisis and post-crisis structures, increasing the leverage effect of EU assistance through participation of third parties and a greater focus on EU performance.
The participants agreed that there was a need for closer cooperation between government bodies, parliaments and auditors at EU and Member State level in order to better inform the public about the benefits of EU policies and programmes.
Our actions 43 Strengthening the partnership with the national authorities in Lithuania The High Level Delegation of the Court visited Lithuania in September 2014 to strengthen its partnership with the parliament, government, central bank and central bank of Lithuania and to support the best use and control of EU spending.
The Court and its partners in Lithuania exchanged priorities to increase the EU's reporting obligation and considered how their cooperation could best contribute to the added value of EU spending and help policy makers and Parliament in Lithuania to make the best use of the Court's audit results.
During the visit, the delegation of the Court actively participated in the conference of the Lithuanian Parliament, together with the challenges related to the calculation and audit in the public sector.
In addition, the delegation and its partners discussed the issues of financial and economic governance and the benefits of Lithuania's accession to the euro area on 1 January 2015.
Lithuania was the first of many EU Member States to be visited by the Court in the coming years to strengthen its partnership with the national authorities responsible for managing and controlling EU funds.
Our management 44 College of the Court The College of the Court consists of one member from each Member State.
In accordance with the Treaty, the term of office of the members of the Court shall be six years and shall be renewable.
Members shall be assigned to one of the five chambers.
The Boards shall adopt audit reports and opinions and take decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues.
In addition, each member shall be responsible for his or her own tasks, which are primarily audit tasks.
The basic audit work shall be carried out by the Court's auditors and coordinated by the member responsible, assisted by his office.
The Member shall then present a report on the adoption by the Chamber and/or the entire College of the Court and submit it to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties, including the media.
In line with Member States' proposals and after consulting the European Parliament in 2014, the Council of the European Union appointed six new members of the European Court of Auditors.
Four of these members: Alex Brennankmeijer (The Netherlands), Danièle Lamarque (France), Nikolaos Millionis (Greece) and Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom) welcomed the Court on 1 January 2014 and two others - Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany) and Oskar Herics (Austria) were welcomed on 1 March 2014.
On 23 January 2014, 28 members of the Court of Vítor Caldeira were re-elected as President of the Court for a period of three years.
The President shall be responsible for supervising the performance of the tasks of the Court and shall represent the institution outside.
Members of the Court at the end of 2014
Meeting of Members of the Court of 27 October 2014
2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015
Our management 46 The Court's 2013-2017 strategy: The progress achieved in 2014 was the second year of the Court's implementation of the 2013-2017 strategy.
The aim of this period is to maximise the value of the Court's contribution to EU public responsibility.
In order to achieve this objective, the Court focuses on the following priorities: ο focus the Court's products on improving the accountability of the EU; ο working with other actors to increase the Court's contribution to the accountability of the EU; ο further development of the Court as a professional audit body; ο making the best use of the knowledge available by the Court and the expertise and expertise available to it; ο demonstrating the effectiveness of the Court and its accountability.
In 2014, the strategy initiated a major change in the Court's organisational structure.
The two internal working groups dealing with this strategy (including the improvement of the control process in the era and the better definition of tasks and responsibilities) have presented their results.
This was linked to the European Parliament's report on the future role of the ECA and the results of the peer review procedure submitted by the Court.
The various recommendations were summarised in a comprehensive reform project which started at the end of 2014 and will run until mid-2016.
In the case of special reports, this means that they are to be drawn up within a shorter period of time and, in the case of the annual report, the aim is to increase the concentration and saving of resources.
Secondly, the Court should be transformed into a task-based organisation.
This will help to make better use of resources for research and analysis that bring the greatest added value to EU citizens.
Our management 47 The Court's performance measurement Since 2008 the Court has used central performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform management of progress in achieving its objectives, to support decision-making and to provide its addressees with information on results.
The CLIs reflect the Court's priorities and define its effectiveness and audit responsibilities as a professional audit body.
These indicators shall measure the basic parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, with particular regard to the position of the main addressees and the effectiveness and effectiveness of its use of resources.
ZLI has been updated for the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy.
Assessment by the addressees of the reports The likely impact of the reports The quality and impact of the Court's work shall be assessed by the Court on the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of the assessments of the addressees and reviews carried out by experts.
Moreover, the Court measures its presence in the media.
The Court asked the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgets of the Council, the main bodies controlled by the Commission and the EU Agencies as well as the EU-ORKB Presidents to assess the usefulness and impact of its reports published in 2014 on the basis of five levels: from very high levels to very low levels.
2 100 % very low 13 56 25 4 53 25 9 0 20% very high 40 % 60 % 80 % average low The response shows that 94% of the most important recipients assess the value of ECO reports as useful for their work (2013: 98 %). 91% consider the Court's work to be effective (2013: 94%).
Our management of 48 reviews carried out by experts Every year independent external experts check the content and present a sample of the Court's reports for quality assessment. In 2014, the auditors assessed eight special reports and annual reports for 2013.
They assessed quality - the aspects of reports on a four-stage scale with a significant impact on quality from 1 to extremely high quality (4).
Reviews by experts of the Court's reports The results in recent years show a satisfactory quality of the Court's reports.
100% 90 80% 80 % 70% 70% 60% 40% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 4 3 2 1 0 2.8 3.0 3.1 2011 2012 2013 2014 Monitoring recommendations The recommendations contained in the audit reports are an essential tool for the Court to improve EU financial management.
Some recommendations can be quickly implemented and others require more time due to their complexity.
At the end of 2014, 69% of the almost six hundred recommendations made by the Court in 2011-2014 were implemented.
This represents a 60% increase compared to the 2013 implementation rate for the 2010-2013 recommendations.
91 %65 %58 %60 %2014 2013 2012 2011 Quality rating
Our management 49 The media presence of the Court's Media Index reflects the Court's media impact.
It concerns the strategic objective of raising the Court's awareness of its products and its findings from the audit and the conclusions of the audit.
In 2014, the Court identified more than 5 100 Internet workers, which referred to its special reports, its annual reports for 2013 and the institutions in general.
40% of these concerned audit reports and the other articles related to the institution and its work in general.
More than 800 articles have been published through a special report on the European Court of Auditors' airports on the implementation of the work programme, the Court plans audits and other tasks on the basis of the annual work programme and monitors the progress achieved during the year.
In 2014, the Court carried out 95% of the tasks provided for in the work programme (in 2013: 90%).
While the annual reports and special annual reports were carried out in accordance with the plan, the special reports covered 85% (2013: 70%).
The economic controls not completed in 2014 were carried over to 2015.
Media Information Topics 29 11 60 0 % 20 %Special reports 40 % 60 % Annual Report 2013 80 %The Court overall 100% resource efficiency and efficiency The Court assesses the efficiency and efficiency of resource use, depending on the extent to which it is able to implement its work programme, carry out audits and provide expertise for its staff.
Implementation of the ECA work programme for 2014 100% 80% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% annual reports Special reports Annual reports Other tasks Total 100% 100% 95% 85%
Our management 50 Preparation of special reports In order to influence the Court's special reports, they should be submitted in due course.
In recent years, the Court has reduced the time needed to carry out the audit.
The 2013-2017 strategy aims to further improve this and should deliver tangible results in the coming years.
The Court prepared 24 special reports in 2014, 42% of which (2013: 37%) were completed within the 18-month deadline set by the Court.
On average, 19 months for the preparation of special reports adopted in 2014 (2013): 20 months.
100% 80% 60% 40% 40% 20% 0% 10-18 months 10 SB 18-26 months 13 SB 4% longer than 26 months 1 SB 54 % 42 % Vocational training According to guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court seeks to provide inspectors with an average of 40 hours (5 days) of vocational training (without language courses).
Training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 10 2012 2013 2014 Average number of training days for examiners (without language courses) The Court has once again exceeded the target level of vocational training for examiners, which shows the importance it attaches to staff development.
For 6,4 target ≥ 5 days 5.2 5.8 The inclusion of language courses in 2014 by the controller was an average of 10 days of training.
Support for control activities Human resources Allocation of human resources In view of the difficult situation of public finances in Europe, the Court continued to reduce employment by 1% per year for a period of five years (2013-2017), in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and financial management of December 2013.
Therefore, in 2014, the number of employees decreased from 891 to 882 temporary officials and temporary staff (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
A total of 561 posts are allocated to employees (including 113 employees in the members' office).
In 2014, in view of the objective of making the best use of resources, all actions re-identified and implemented the capacity to increase efficiency by simplifying procedures.
The relocation of staff from support services to control services continued in 2014.
However, this has been compensated by the transfer of certain support services from the members' offices to the administrative pool and the transfer of communication and institutional relations to the services of the President.
51 Recruitment The Court's staff has a broad academic and professional context and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's findings.
The Court's recruitment policy complies with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the Personal consists of both officials and operators with fixed-term employment contracts.
In 2014, the internal selection procedure for grade AST 1 and the selection procedure for the recruitment of the Ombudsman were carried out.
In addition, the Court has provided 77 graduates with traineeships for a period of between three and five months per year.
In 2014, the Court had 78 staff: 31 officials, 29 temporary staff, 13 contract staff and five seconded national experts.
Since 2011, the number of job vacancies is almost 3% (27 people were not employed on 31 December 2014).
Division of the Court's positions on 31 December 2014 2014 2014: Control services 573 576 561 Translation 143 147 141 Administration 139 137 141 Service of the President 32 31 39 Total 887 891 882
Supporting control activities 52 Balance between men and women Like other EU institutions, the Court has a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment.
As a result of the steady increase in women's participation over the years, the Court has achieved a balanced share of 50% among its staff.
The following graph shows the percentage of women and men broken down by responsibility on 31 December 2014, which has not changed much in recent years.
Percentage of men and women by category of staff in 2014 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20% 20% of assistants - secretaries - administrators - men Management Women 66% 41% 51% 31% 69 % 34%
Support for control activities 53 Managers by nationality and sex on 31 December 2014. Women Men Nationality1 Directors Managers Departments 4 Belgium 1 3 1 Bulgaria 1 1 Czech Republic 1 1 Denmark 1 3 4 Germany 1 6 1 Estonia 1 3 Ireland 1 2 2 Greece 1 2 3 4 Spain 1 6 8 France 1 7 1 Croatia 1 1 2 Italy 3 Cyprus 1 Latvia 1 1 1 Lithuania 1 Luxembourg 1 Hungary 1 Malta 1 1 Netherlands 2 1 Austria 1 Poland 1 2 1 Portugal 3 1 Romania 1 Slovenia 1 Slovakia 1 Finland 1 Sweden 1 8 United Kingdom 4 5 21 46 Total 11 56 1 In the protocol order of the Member States.
Supporting control activities 54 The action plan for equal opportunities aims to achieve a balanced participation of women and men at all levels of the Court.
After the last recruitment waves 48% of AD 5 to AD staff are 8 women (increase compared to 43% in 2009).
Age profile According to the age profile of active staff employed on 31 December 2014, 53% of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger.
20-24 0,1% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0,3% Since it is expected to renew in senior management positions over the next five to ten years, the growing percentage of women in the functional group AD will result in more women in future in development positions.
27 (40%) of 67 directors and heads of departments are 55 years of age or older.
Therefore, in the next five to ten years, when they retire, there will be a renewal in senior management positions.
2.4% 10.3% 19.2% 21.9% 18.1% 14.3% 3.9% 9.4%
Support for control activities 55 Vocational training support services In order to further develop the Court as a professional audit body, as well as to make optimal use of its knowledge and expertise, permanent training of staff is necessary in order to keep up with professional development and acquire new skills.
In 2014, the Court's staff (researchers and other staff) completed an average of eight days of vocational training.
The participation of language courses in vocational training continues to decrease.
In 2014, they accounted for 43% of the total number of training days (compared with 46% in 2013).
In order to make the best use of existing resources and technologies, from 2014 the Court has offered its employees individually tailored e-learning courses and training in the form of integrated learning, during which participants receive general online training before the start of the event.
In addition, as part of the objective of exchanging existing internal knowledge and informing the Court's auditors of progress in public sector controls, presentations of internal and external experts on audit progress and other relevant areas were continued.
Written translation is an activity in support of audits which enables the Court to carry out its mission and to achieve communication objectives, which consist in ensuring the results presented by the Court in the languages of EU citizens.
In 2014, the total volume of translations was 4 % higher than in 2013.
More than 98% of translations have been completed according to deadlines.
In addition to normal translation work, the Translation Directorate continued its direct participation in the Court's activities: translators provided linguistic support on 40 EU-wide audit visits and audit reports.
In 2014, the Translation Directorate focused mainly on quality assurance.
To this end, the first translation quality assurance manual was adopted and a feedback system was developed for customers.
Finally, in order to improve service efficiency, translation work has been examined and optimised and the process has been automated in cooperation with the Directorate for Information Technology.
Support for control activities 56 All processes related to the development and sharing of tools were carried out with safety and continuity: for example, in 2014 a comprehensive test was carried out to restart the new K3 building after the collapse of the IT systems (diaster recovery) and central IT components (e.g. the launch of the Court's e-mail system).
The management and infrastructure of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services shall be designed to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and pursue its strategic objectives, as well as to ensure that the necessary financial control, internal control and audit mechanisms are available to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2014, the Directorate continued to focus on making its activities even more effective and economical.
An environmental management system is currently being developed for the Court, in line with the principles of the Community environmental management and audit system (EMAS), to be approved by the end of 2016.
In 2014, a number of concrete actions were successfully implemented and showed the Court's commitment to environmental protection, including: • adoption of environmental policy; • carrying out environmental analysis and compliance studies; • increasing the number of campaigns aimed at raising the awareness of environmental workers from four in 2013 to eight in 2014; • obtaining a BREEAM environmental certificate (the most important method for designing and evaluating sustainable buildings in the world) for building K3 and maintaining the quality label for waste management; • promoting the sustainable transport of workers by providing a new bicycle space with showers and changing rooms for cyclists, installing electric car charging stations and booking parking spaces for bicycle groups.
Support for control activities 57 The Court's financial information is financed by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget accounts for around 0.093% of total EU expenditure and 1.58% of total administrative expenditure.
In 2014, the total budget available was 98.8% compared to 92% in 2013.
The higher execution rate is primarily due to better estimate and planning of expenditure under Title 1, with an average execution rate of 98.8%.
For Title 2, the average performance rate was 98.4%.
Budget 2014 Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 15 190 93 180 4 191 3 350 2 629 118 540 2 564 7 199 1 543 552 703 2 397 14 958 133 498 14 554 92 774 4 113 3 119 2 592 117 152 2 541 7 199 1 541 532 649 2 264 14 726 131 878 96 % 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 96% 92% 92% 98% 99% (EUR 1 000) 14 420 92 745 4 071 2 641 1 957 115 834 3 581 686 450 466 1 316 8 329 163 162 - construction Title 1 210 - Processing of data and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - furniture and related expenditure 23 - Current expenditure related to business activities 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Title 2 European Court of Auditors Total revenue Payment 1 original budget and expenditure 2 - General revenue and expenditure 23 - Expenditure related to Title 161 - Revenue - Total revenue - Revenue - Revenue
Support for control actions 58 Budget 2015 For the 2015 budget, compared to 2014, the 2015 budget decreased by 0.4%.
Budget 2015 Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution2 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and services 10 291 97 420 3 700 2 669 118 381 3 080 7 152 785 426 717 2 365 14 525 132 906 15 175 93 180 4 096 3700 2 612 118 763 3 350 7 110 808 438 768 2 261 14 735 133 498 BUDGET1 162 missions 20 - Buildings Titles 1 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on staff of the institution 2015 (EUR 1 000) Title 2: buildings, equipment and various operating expenditure 210 - Processing of data and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Auxiliary expenditure 23 - Current management expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Title 2 Court of Auditors Total 1 The data in the table are in line with the originally agreed budget.
2 In line with the Commission's proposal that expenditure relating to pensions of former members of all EU institutions be included in the section on pensions expenditure of officials of all institutions, expenditure on pensions of former members of the Court in the 2015 budget is transferred to the section on the Commission.
The Internal Auditor shall advise the Court on matters relating to risk control by issuing opinions on the quality of management and control systems and recommendations to improve the conditions for the management of operations and to promote sound financial management.
The internal auditor shall also support the work of the external auditor responsible for certifying the Court's annual accounts.
The internal auditor informed the Court of the results of audits carried out in 2014, findings, recommendations and actions taken on the basis of those recommendations.
The Court shall report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal auditor's work.
In October 2014, the Court's internal audit confirmed compliance with the definition of internal audit, code of conduct and standards developed by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IAA).
This certification was based on a comprehensive assessment of the quality of the Court's internal audit, carried out at the request of the internal auditor and the Internal Audit Committee by the external expert Deloitte SRL. In this way, international standards of professional practice for internal audit IIA were also met.
The Court's external audit The Court's annual accounts shall be audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same principles of transparency and accountability that apply to the authorities that it has carried out.
On 18 September 2014, the auditor's report Pricewaterhouse-Coopers SRL on the Court of Auditors' accounts for the financial year 2013 was published.
The independent auditor's opinions for the financial year 2013 As regards the financial statements: in our view, the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2013, its revenue and cash flows at the end of that period, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Eura-tom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and Commission Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation. As regards the use of resources and control procedures: • As regards our work described in this report, we did not refer to situations from which it should be concluded that, in all relevant respects and taking into account the above evaluation criteria, the resources allocated to the Court have not been used to meet the objectives set out in this Regulation and • the control procedures implemented do not give rise to the assurance that the financial measures have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
Declaration by 60 of the authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that as authorising officer by delegation, • • - that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and confirm with reasonable assurance that the appropriations for the actions described in this report have been used for the purposes provided for and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures put in place ensure adequate assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the proper management of fraud or fraud, the costs and benefits of controls.
This security shall be based on an assessment of the signed and available information, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers seconded, internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's opinions on the previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 February 2015.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DE 2015 Activity Report
02 European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorseca Many information about the European Union can be found on the Europa website (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2016 Print ISBN 978-92-872-4091-0 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-4084-2 EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-4066-8 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/880265 doi:10.2865/420922 doi:10.2865/5528320 QJ-AA-16-001-DE-C QJ-AA-16-001-DE-N QJ-AA-16-001-DE-E © European Union, 2016 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors Beginning of EU Financing
The European Court of Auditors 02 Court of Auditors is an independent external audit body of the European Union based in Luxembourg.
It has 28 members, one of each EU Member State and employs about 900 employees from all EU Member States in the field of audit and administration.
Since its establishment in 1977, the Court has advocated better EU financial management and better accounts.
The Court's tasks are to verify that EU funds have been correctly booked and used and used in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations and that they can be used optimally.
It warns against threats, provides security and guidance to policy makers in the EU, how to improve public finance management and provide European citizens with knowledge of how to use their funds.
Through its audit work and other activities, the Court contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and stability of the European Union.
Heading 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 Preliminaries of the President 5 2015 at a glance 5 Our activities 5 Our management 6-40 Our actions 6-9 Audits 10-13 Annual reports 14 Special Annual Reports 15-33 Special reports 34 Opinions 35-36 High-level events and conferences 37-38 Relations with addressees 39-40 Cooperation with the highest audit authorities 41-49 Our management 41-42 College of the Court 43-45 Court Strategy 2013-2017 46-49 Measurement of results 50-59 Support for controls 50-53 Human resources 53-55 Support services 56-57 Financial information 58-59 Audit and clearance 60 Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation
President 04 Dear Reader, in 2015, to which this activity report refers, the European Union has again faced major challenges, including major changes in the management, policy and financial management of the EU, such as the creation of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) and the introduction of a single resolution mechanism for banks in the euro area.
These and other events have led to the creation of new audit tasks of the Court.
In 2015, we also examined the activities of EU institutions and other bodies and all EU funds paid to Member States, countries outside the EU, international organisations and other beneficiaries.
In accordance with our obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we have prepared annual accounts for the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund and special annual accounts for the accounts of more than 50 EU agencies and other bodies.
In addition, we have prepared 25 special reports on a number of topics, the results of which are summarised in this activity report.
We would like to draw your attention in particular to two specific reports: the report on the Emissions Trading Scheme, which shows that our work goes beyond purely financial issues, as well as the report on financial assistance to countries in difficulty, which are part of a series of new special reports on financial and economic governance.
In addition, last year we issued eight opinions on new or revised EU legislation with a significant financial impact, including an opinion on the EFSI Regulation.
In order for our work to be effective, we need to provide information to stakeholders at both EU and national level.
During the year, we have deepened our cooperation with the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union.
The results of our studies have been presented by an increasing number of specialised committees of these institutions, and when planning future audits we have taken into account their concerns.
In addition, the members of the Court visited Member States at a high level in order to strengthen their partnership with national authorities, parliaments and audit bodies.
In 2015, we organised two important conferences: one in Brussels on EU energy security and the other in Luxembourg on the future of development aid in the context of the new UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We have also prepared a comprehensive internal reform to better respond to ongoing changes in the European Union.
This report presents some important changes that we have made with regard to our relations with stakeholders, controls and resources.
You will also receive important information on the management of staff, finance and services as well as the results of our internal and external audits of last year, as well as on the latest annual discharge procedure.
I hope that this report will give you a useful and interesting picture of the Court's activities in 2015, which is intended to achieve our task of improving the financial management of the EU, increasing accountability and transparency and protecting the financial interests of EU citizens.
2015 summary 05 Our activities Our management • Annual reports on the general budget of the EU • and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2014, containing mainly statement of assurance and audit results. • 52 special annual reports containing the Court's opinions on the annual accounts of individual EU agencies and other bodies and two summary reports. An internal reform was carried out to improve our audit and reporting procedures and allow for greater flexibility in the management of our resources. • 25 specific reports on specific governance topics and budgetary areas, including the emissions trading scheme, youth employment programmes and assistance during the financial crisis. • Eight opinions on new or revised EU legislation and other decisions affecting financial management, from the proposed regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments to the revised Regulation on the Single Resolution Mechanism. • Meetings, seminars and conferences with our addressees, including two high-level conferences on EU energy commitments and on the future of development aid.
We have continued our policy of equal opportunities for recruitment and staff management. • We have made significant progress in the integration of IT systems for audit management and audit documentation, as well as in the provision of audit information on mobile devices.
Our activities 06 Audits Our audit reports and opinions are an important part of the EU's liability chain because they are used to assume responsibility by the bodies responsible for managing the EU budget in particular under the annual discharge procedure.
They are primarily the European Commission, but also other EU institutions and bodies.
In the areas of shared management, Member States also play an important role, e.g. in agricultural and cohesion spending.
Our three main products are: • Annual reports containing mainly the results of accounting audits and compliance checks in relation to the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund (EDF), as well as aspects of budgetary management and efficiency.
• Special reports presenting the results of selected performance or compliance checks on specific expenditure or policies or budgetary or management-related issues. • Opinions on new or amended acts affecting financial management and other analysis-based products drawn up at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative.
We are trying to manage our resources in such a way as to ensure a proper balance between the various actions and, at the same time, to ensure adequate coverage of the different areas of the EU budget and to achieve sound results.
In 2015, we used a large part of our resources to prepare annual statements of assurance, which were then presented in our annual reports.
The work underlying the Statement of Assurance covers two aspects for which, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we must issue an annual audit opinion: the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
Furthermore, where possible, we take into account the performance of other auditors (see the audit section of the EU agencies on page 14) and management declarations in the form of annual reports on the activities of the Directors-General of the Commission.
In addition to statutory controls, we choose, at our discretion, specific expenditure or policy areas on the basis of criteria such as the risk of irregularities or insufficient results, potential for improvement and public interest.
We choose these topics in a completely independent way, but taking into account the views of our address circle.
In 2015, we prepared 25 special reports, which are in particular the result of our performance controls.
A summary of the special reports is presented in this activity report (pages 15-33).
In 2015, we issued eight opinions on proposals for new or revised provisions and regulations (p. 34).
In particular, we pay attention to our opinion on EFSI in order to clarify both the issues and the impact of our opinions.
All audit reports and opinions are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our activities 07 Audit reports and opinions 2013-2015 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total 91 2 Total 89 2 52 25 10* Total 77 2 50 19 6 51 24 14 * Annual Special reports Special opinions and other statements Eight opinions and two summary reports on EU agencies and joint enterprises 2013 2014 2015
Our activities 08 Audit visits in 2015. While most audit work is carried out at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also carried out audit visits to the Member States' authorities, other beneficiaries of EU funds within and outside the European Union (including organisations involved in the allocation of EU funds, such as the European Investment Bank's regional offices in Kenya and Uganda) and other EU institutions, agencies and bodies.
As a result of these visits, we received direct proof of control from those involved in the approval, management, collection and payment of EU funds and from the relevant final beneficiaries.
Our control teams usually consist of two to three controllers, and the duration of the inspection visit may be several days, but also a few weeks.
The frequency and intensity of controls in each Member State and beneficiary country depends on the type of checks and, where appropriate, on the selection of the sample.
Therefore, the number of inspection visits may vary from country to year.
In the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the highest audit authorities of the Member States visited.
In 2015, the Court's auditors spent 4 310 days in on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU and obtained evidence of annual reports and selected audit tasks (special reports).
They also spent a lot of time in the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as in decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU.
On-the-spot checks took less days than in 2014.
This is due to more effective working procedures and the increasing use of technologies such as secure data and documents exchange and video conferencing.
Detecting fraud Although our controls are not specifically designed to detect fraud, sometimes during our investigative work we encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraud.
The Court cooperates with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to combat fraud from the EU budget.
Any suspicion of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity to the detriment of the financial interests of the EU that arise during our audit work shall be communicated to OLAF.
These matters will then be monitored by OLAF, which shall decide on a possible investigation and, where appropriate, cooperate with the authorities of the Member States.
In 2015, we handed over 27 cases of suspected fraud to OLAF (2014: 16).
Our actions 09 days on the spot in 2015 Italy Germany Poland Spain France United Kingdom Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Netherlands Finland Czech Republic Lithuania Ireland Denmark Slovakia Sweden Slovenia Belgium Cyprus Latvia Estonia Luxembourg Switzerland Azerbaijan Egypt Uganda Serbia China Cuba Myanmar Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Eritrea Ghana Tanzania Norway Albania Haiti Papua New Guinea Rwanda Montenegro Ukraine Ethiopia Kenya Democratic Republic of the Congo Moldova Total 4 310 0 50 100 150 250 300 350 450 500
Our activities 10 Annual Reports 2014 Most of our accounting audits and compliance checks have been dedicated in 2015 to the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2014.
The 2014 Annual Report was published on 10 November 2015 and presented to our addressees, including the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the European Union (Ecofin and Financial Councils) and national parliaments and governments, as well as the media.
The main objective of our annual report is to help the European Parliament, the Council and citizens assess the quality of EU financial management by presenting their findings and conclusions.
In the 2014 Annual Report, we ensure the credibility of the use of EU funds for this financial year and stress the areas where the greatest risk was associated with the misuse of EU funds.
In addition, we analyse the causes of errors and make useful and cost-effective recommendations on possible improvements.
We have revised the structure of our annual report for the financial year 2014 in order to make this report clearer.
The chapters correspond to the headings of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
The key element of the report is still the statement of assurance in which we deliver an opinion on the reliability of the EU accounts and compliance with the rules on revenue and expenditure.
In addition, we have made a specific assessment of all the main areas of EU activity and provided extensive information on budgetary and financial management.
The report also contains information on the results of the EU budget and the Commission's reporting, in particular on progress towards the Europe 2020 objectives.
President Vítor Caldeira presented to the European Parliament the annual report of the European Court of Auditors for 2014 and EU spending in 2014 amounted to EUR 142.5 billion = almost EUR 300 per citizen
Our actions 11 The key conclusions of the 2014 Annual Report are that the European Court of Auditors calls for a new approach to EU investment and expenditure. In 2014, the reliability of the EU accounts was confirmed. In 2014, revenue was legal and regular.
Conclusions and Recommendations In 2014, the EU's annual accounts were drawn up in accordance with international principles and presented a true and reliable picture of the situation.
We could therefore once again give an unlimited opinion on their credibility.
However, we have issued a wrong opinion on the regularity of payments. In respect of payments for 2014, the estimated error rate which measures the level of irregularities is 4.4%. This is close to the error rate for 2013 (4.5%) and constantly exceeds the materiality threshold of 2 %. For expenditure under shared management with Member States and expenditure managed directly by the Commission, the estimated error rate was equal to 4.6%).
The greatest error rate has been established for expenditure under economic, social and territorial cohesion (5,7%) and for co-financing of growth and employment (5,6%).
For administrative expenditure, the lowest estimated error rate (0.5%) was established. For administrative expenditure, there is a clear link between expenditure types and error rates.
The estimated error rate for reimbursement schemes (5.5%) for which the EU reimburses eligible costs for eligible actions on the basis of a set of costs prepared by beneficiaries is twice as high as the estimated error rate for payment entitlements schemes (2.7%) for which payments are not reimbursed but depend on the fulfilment of certain conditions.
Without these measures, the estimated total error rate would be 5,5 %.
The Commission needs further improvements in the assessment of the risks and consequences of corrective actions.If the Commission, Member State authorities and independent auditors use all the information available to them, they could prevent or detect a significant proportion of errors before they arise and correct them.
It is essential for the Commission to take action to address this persistent problem.
In partnership agreements and programmes, Member States do not sufficiently take into account the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
In view of these two aspects, the Commission can only partially monitor the results and contribution of the EU budget to the Europe 2020 strategy and report on it. In the upcoming mid-term review of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020, it is crucial for the management of EU expenditure.
It is important that the Commission examines as soon as possible areas where there is a high level of error, assess the potential for reducing these error rates, while paying more attention to expenditure results.
Our actions 12 Control of transactions in specific areas of EU spending - Results for 2014. Expenditure on natural resources Economic, social and territorial cohesion Competitiveness for growth and jobs in Europe worldwide Manage verified populations and estimated error rate 5.6% 2.7% 0.5 % 3.6 % 5.7 % Conclusion on controls EUR 57.5 billion EUR 13.0 billion EUR 7.4 billion EUR 8,8 billion EUR 0 20 40 60 billion EUR The table was drawn from the summary information on the EU review in 2014 available on our website (eca.europa.eu/en/audit raising-2014).
Our actions 13 Annual Report on the European Development Fund (EDF) 2014
The EFF is financed by the Member States and managed by the European Investment Bank outside the EU budget by the European Commission and by the European Investment Bank for certain aid measures.
Their income was not significantly affected by errors, while the estimated error rate in payments was 3.8%.
As in previous years, shortcomings in ex ante controls have been identified.
The estimated error rate results in almost two thirds of errors in respect of non-compliance with public procurement rules and in the absence of evidence justifying expenditure.
Our annual report on the EDF will be published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our actions 14 Special Annual Reports for the financial year 2014 Total in 2014 for all EU agencies, bodies and joint enterprises was allocated around EUR 4 billion.
EU agencies, other bodies and joint undertakings perform specific tasks on behalf of the EU and are established in different EU Member States.
They operate in many areas such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and transport, each with its own mandate, management, director, staff and budget.
In 2015 we prepared 52 special annual reports for the financial year 2014.
These included 41 decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other EU bodies, eight European Joint Research Undertakings, European Schools, the Galileo Joint Undertaking in the liquidation and the communication infrastructure of Sisnet.
In addition, we have published two summaries reviewing the results of our audits in this area (merging EU agencies and other bodies, as well as reports on joint enterprises).
These reports have been submitted to the President of the European Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, the Council for General Affairs and the Committee on Budgets of the Council.
In 2014, each financial report of 33 decentralised EU agencies and other bodies was independently audited by a private audit firm for the first time.
When preparing our opinions on these financial statements, we took into account this audit work and the actions taken by the evaluation bodies on the basis of the audit findings.
The accounts of the other agencies and joint ventures have been fully audited by us.
In 2014, we considered the accounts of all agencies, other bodies and joint enterprises to be reliable.
The processes were legal and correct, except Artemis (built-in ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and ECSEL (components and electronic systems).
Overall, the agencies have improved their procedures by taking corrective action on the basis of our comments from previous years.
Our special annual reports and two summaries of the results of our audits on agencies, other bodies and joint enterprises for 2014 are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
52 specific annual reports on EU agencies, other bodies and joint enterprises located across Europe, based in Europol, The Hague, the Netherlands.
Our activities 15 Special Reports developed in 2015. In addition to our annual reports and special annual reports, we publish special reports throughout the year containing the results of performance and compliance checks that we carry out in specific budgetary areas or issues related to the management of our selected areas.
When selecting and designing these control tasks, we try to achieve the maximum effect and thus make the best use of our resources.
Our economic controls often cover several financial years and their subject matter is complex, so it may take more than a year to complete these controls.
In 2015, the special reports focused in particular on the following issues: the EU's overall objective of creating added value and growth and the EU's response to global challenges such as sustainability of public finances, the environment and climate change.
The relevant headings corresponding to the headings of the multiannual financial framework are summarised in a summary of the 25 special reports prepared in 2015.
Main elements of the selected economic control or compliance Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the response of the audited entity.
02 A clear and orderly presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
development of recommendations.
determining the adequacy and feasibility of the proposed study.
Identify the scope, objectives, approaches, methods and timetable of controls.
Our actions 16 100 80 60 40 20 0 Competitiveness for growth and jobs EUR 143 billion 13 % Smart and inclusive growth In the EU budget, smart and inclusive growth accounts for the largest part of the expenditure.
This area includes two sub-headings: competitiveness for growth and jobs.
The Competitiveness for Growth and Jobs section of the "Activities for Growth and Jobs" section includes funding for trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, business development, research and innovation, education and training, social policy, etc. The planned expenditure for 2014-2020 represents 13% of the total EU budget for the programming period, i.e. EUR 143 billion.
The 2015 budget appropriations amounted to EUR 15.7 billion. • Inland navigation in Europe: no significant improvement in the share of modes of transport and shipping conditions since 2001 (No 1/2015) The special report examines whether projects co-financed by the EU budget have effectively contributed to the increase in the share of transport modes in inland waterway transport and the improvement of inland waterway capacity and whether EU inland waterway strategies have been consistent and based on appropriate and comprehensive analyses.
Projects co-financed by the EU have not been successfully implemented because they have not been able to cross inland navigation as an alternative to road transport or improve shipping opportunities.
Although the Commission has identified inland navigation as a priority, Member States have paid little attention to inland navigation.
There is no coherent overall strategy among Member States linked to major shipping corridors and the maintenance of river resources and political and environmental considerations are not sufficiently addressed in EU strategies.
Member States should prioritise inland waterway transport projects which bring the greatest and most direct benefits, and the Commission should focus its resources on those projects where there are advanced plans to remove bottlenecks.
Between 2007 and 2013, the TEN-T programme, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund allocated €1.3 billion to inland waterway projects in the EU.
Our actions 17 • Are the needs of micro-enterprises adequately met by EU financial support?
The Special Report (No 8/2015) examines whether the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Progress Microfinance Facility meet the needs of micro-entities.
The auditors found that programming and planning of financial support granted by the ESF were weak and that the implementation of the results was not adequately and reliably monitored.
Neither the Commission nor the Member States had comparative information on the administrative costs of each Member State and the financing mechanisms.
These circumstances may have a negative impact on the effectiveness of EU financial support to micro-enterprises.
Member States should assess needs when developing financial instruments and developing operational programmes, including financial support to micro-entities by the EU.
The Commission should make the use of ESF financial instruments by Member States conditional on robust risk management systems.
In the case of microfinance, loans of less than EUR 25 000 are usually granted and often less than EUR 10 000.
The total demand for funding in EU Member States is estimated at over EUR 12 billion.
Among the examples mentioned in the report is the provision of EUR 5 000 for urban kiosk development and EUR 9 500 for support for the creation of a playground and clothing activities. • Improving security of energy supply through the development of the internal energy market: greater efforts are needed (No 16/2015) ▪ The purpose of this special report is to determine whether the implementation of internal energy market policies and EU energy infrastructure expenditure have effectively contributed to the security of energy supply benefits.
The audit showed that Europe's energy infrastructure in general is not yet fully integrated and therefore does not provide effective security of energy supply.
The Commission should therefore identify energy infrastructure in the EU which is not actively used and cooperate with Member States to remove obstacles to its use for the purposes of the internal energy market.
In addition, the Commission should consider new ways of making energy available to customers in another Member State from one Member State.
The internal energy market aims at enabling the free movement and trade of natural gas and electricity across the EU.
Within the EU budget, EUR 3.7 billion has been allocated to finance energy infrastructure for the period 2007-2013 and another 7.4 billion is foreseen for the period 2014-2020.
However, the report stresses that the EU's objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 has not been achieved.
Our actions 18 Economic, social and territorial cohesion Intelligent and inclusive growth Sub-heading "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" under regional policy aims to support the least developed countries and regions in their search for links with other regions, thereby strengthening the competitiveness and cooperation of all regions.
The expenditure foreseen for cohesion 2014-2020 represents 34% of the EU budget for the entire programming period, i.e. EUR 367 billion.
100 80 60 40 20 0 367 billion EUR 34% • Efforts should be stepped up to address public procurement problems in the area of EU cohesion expenditure (No 10/2015) the special report examines whether the Commission and the Member States are taking appropriate and effective action to address errors in public procurement in the field of cohesion policy.
The audit showed that there are still widespread public procurement problems across the EU.
Although the Commission and the Member States have started to address this issue, much remains to be done.
Serious errors have led to no fair competition and no award to the best tenderers.
The systematic analysis is very limited and lacks sufficiently accurate, reliable and consistent data on the nature and scale of errors.
If the situation does not improve by the end of 2016, it is recommended to suspend payments to the Member States concerned for the period 2014-2020.
Between 2007 and 2013, € 349 billion was allocated to regional policy expenditure to be paid through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund and the European Social Fund.
A large proportion of these funds are spent through public procurement.
The errors were found in around 40% of the projects that the Court examined for its annual accounts for the financial years 2009 to 2013.
Our actions 19 • EU funding of urban waste water treatment plants in the Danube basin: Member States need further support in achieving EU waste water treatment policy objectives (No 2/2015) This special report assesses the effectiveness of assistance to Member States in the Danube basin from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund in achieving EU waste water treatment policy objectives.
The audit showed that although EU spending programmes have contributed significantly to the progress achieved in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, there have been delays in compliance with the rules and the use of available EU funds in all countries.
Although waste water in installations in these countries has generally been adequately treated, the use of sewage sludge and rainwater leaks may not be sufficient.
One third of the installations were overdeveloped and potentially unable to sustain.
These countries have slowly benefited from the available EU funds, risking losing EU funds or having to obtain additional funding from national budgets.
The Commission should step up reporting requirements and Member States should lay down rules to ensure rapid connection to public sewerage.
The Commission and the Member States should establish criteria for all types of use of sewage sludge and ensure reliable monitoring of pollution.
The Danube basin area is the largest area in Europe.
The EU contribution to waste water treatment projects in the four Member States audited • for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods amounted to EUR 7.9 billion. Water quality in the Danube basin: progress in the implementation of the Water Framework Directive but still needs further action (No 23/2015) on the implementation of the Water Framework Directive by the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia leads to improved surface water quality in the Danube basin.
The audit showed that there has been little improvement since 2004.
The main reason for the limited progress was that Member States' plans were not ambitious enough.
Targeted actions were missing for water bodies of insufficient quality.
In addition, shortcomings in the monitoring systems have led to a lack of data on both the type of contamination and the sources of pollution that caused the negative assessment of the state of aquatic organisms.
In addition, Member States have eliminated a significant number of water bodies without sufficient justification for the relevant deadlines.
Between 2007 and 2013, Member States in the Danube basin received €6.35 billion from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund for waste water treatment.
During the same period, EUR 6.39 billion was allocated from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development to compensate farmers for agri-environmental measures.
Our actions 20 • EU Youth Guarantee: Beginning is possible, but implementation risks (No 3/2015) are possible, the special report examines whether the Commission has adequately helped Member States to establish the Youth Guarantee and whether there are potential risks associated with the implementation of the Youth Guarantee.
The audit identified three risks that could hinder the effective implementation of the Youth Guarantee: the adequacy of the overall budget, the definition of high-quality jobs and the way in which the Commission monitors the Youth Guarantee and presents results.
The auditors concluded that the Commission had helped Member States to implement the Youth Guarantee in a timely and appropriate manner.
However, the Commission has not carried out an impact assessment which would determine the expected costs and benefits, although this is a standard procedure.
Although the Commission asked Member States to provide cost estimates when submitting their plans for implementing the Youth Guarantee, some of them did not provide the necessary information, none of the Member States indicated the estimated costs of the necessary structural reforms.
The Youth Guarantee was established in June 2013 in response to the deterioration of the situation of unemployed young people, which was aggravated by the economic and financial crisis.
In the period 2014-2020, the Youth Guarantee will be co-financed from the EU budget through the European Social Fund and the special initiative for youth employment of a total of EUR 12.7 billion. • The Commission's support for Youth Action Teams: the relocation of ESF resources successfully but not sufficiently focused on results (No 17/2015) in this Special Report examines whether in 2012 youth Action Teams presented proposals on how to achieve results more quickly and more effectively through the ESF for the unemployed and whether these proposals contributed to the relocation of ESF resources.
The auditors found that although the Youth Action Teams set up by the Commission managed to translate funds into projects supporting young people, they presented only limited proposals.
The Commission provided advice to the Member States but was limited in the scope and quality of the information available.
While the initiative has led to the reprogramming and re-allocation of European Social Fund funds, the Commission's assessment of changes in operational programmes focused mainly on their budgetary impact.
Where there are discrepancies between the promises and the real objectives achieved by the Commission, there should not be too high expectations for such initiatives.
In 2012, as part of the Youth Opportunities initiative, the Commission set up youth teams.
The teams included experts from eight Member States with the highest number of unemployed among young people and experts from the Commission.
This initiative covered almost EUR 10 billion from the European Social Fund, which were still available in the Member States.
Our actions 21 Natural resources EUR 417 billion Sustainable growth: Natural resources This heading includes a common agricultural and fisheries policy, rural development and EU environmental action.
Three quarters of the expenditure concerns direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets.
The expenditure planned for 2014-2020 represents almost 39% of the total EU budget for this programming period, i.e. EUR 417 billion.
The 2015 budget was EUR 56 billion.
100 80 60 40 20 0 39 % • Technical assistance: What contribution has it made to agriculture and rural development?
(No 4/2015) This Special Report examines the use of financial resources for technical assistance in the field of agriculture and rural development for the 2007-2013 programming period.
The audit focused on the regularity, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of funding at Commission and Member State level.
The audit has shown that neither the European Commission nor the Member States have shown how the use of technical assistance in the field of agriculture and rural development has contributed to the use of budgetary resources and the achievement of the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
Rural networks aimed at promoting cooperation, knowledge sharing and innovation in the agricultural sector are very good beneficiaries of technical assistance.
However, in most cases, capacity-building funds have been used to support general administrative budgets.
With regard to rural development, the Commission should clarify the scope and use of technical assistance in the Member States and closely monitor its implementation.
For the period 2007-2013, Member States have planned to allocate €1.5 billion to technical assistance under the EU budget within a ceiling of 4% of the national financial framework available for rural development.
In the period 2014-2020, this amount increased to around €1.9 billion.
Our actions 22 • Are financial instruments in the field of rural development an effective and promising instrument?
(No 5/2015) This special report examines whether the financial instruments (credits and guarantee funds) used under rural development policy have been well developed and managed during the 2007-2013 programming period.
The audit has shown that financial instruments have not been effective so far.
This is mainly because financial instruments have been overcapitalised and have not been able to exploit their potential to achieve the desired leverage and renewable effect.
There were no clear arguments for the introduction of financial instruments during the 2007-2013 programming period.
In addition, reliable quantitative information was not available to justify the nature of the financial instruments established, to determine the demand for financial instruments in the agricultural sector and to demonstrate that the amount allocated to the fund was appropriate.
Incentives should be stepped up for Member States to create financial instruments in the field of rural development and to increase the demand of farmers or other beneficiaries, and appropriate standards and targets for leverage and renewable effects for 2014-2020 should be set.
By the end of 2013, the EU and its Member States invested around €700 million in guarantee and credit funds for rural development.
The Commission wants Member States to undertake at least to double the use of these instruments for the period 2014-2020.
The approximation of economic control: the integrity and implementation of the EU ETS (No 6/2015) The EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) differs in a way from other policies and programmes that we are investigating because it does not receive significant funding from the EU budget.
However, it has a huge impact on the implementation of EU policies and on the quality of life of citizens.
The EU ETS was introduced in 2005 and is often referred to as the reference model for developing climate change strategies and emissions trading systems elsewhere in the world.
Therefore, appropriate frameworks are expected to ensure regulation and market surveillance, legal certainty and management systems for relevant information.
The basic structures of the implementation systems should also be sufficiently robust.
At the end of 2013, our auditors examined the framework for protecting the integrity of the EU ETS and the effective implementation of the programme by the Commission and the Member States until phase II (end 2012).
The evaluation was carried out because of the risks associated with the creation of a functioning market for EU climate policy and the difficulty of controlling activities that cannot be captured (how is hot air measured?)
Our auditors examined whether the EU ETS was properly managed.
To this end, they not only checked the file and interviewed the officials involved in the management of the EU ETS in the European Commission in Brussels, but also visited the competent authorities in five Member States (Germany, France, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom).
In addition, in two other countries (Greece and Spain) documents were examined and experts were consulted.
The auditors obtained further evidence by checking the documents relating to 150 installations selected in these seven Member States and by submitting data from the EU transaction protocol.
Our actions 23 are being analysed and the controllers have not been able to control installations on site because they do not receive EU funds in connection with the emissions trading scheme and therefore do not have the access rights required for controls.
The evidence obtained by our auditors pointed to the lack of supervision of the emission market and insufficient cooperation between regulators.
For example, our auditors concluded that the legal definition of entitlements should be clarified and that procedures for opening ETS accounts in the Union Registry and monitoring transactions were not adequate to ensure adequate control of fraud.
However, the initial situation was difficult: Member States were not able to effectively monitor cross-border transactions because they did not have direct access to the central database and the Commission was not able to monitor the transactions because there was no legal basis for this.
Our auditors also found that the emission monitoring and reporting systems are not harmonised and that there are shortcomings in the controls, as well as insufficient support from the Commission and the Member States.
In their findings, the auditors concluded that the framework for protecting market integrity is not sufficiently robust and that there have been significant shortcomings in implementation at the last stage, which partly require further action at this stage.
However, our report clearly shows that this innovative system has been continuously improved.
At the time of publication of the report, the debate on possible reforms of the EU ETS, which focused on the effectiveness of the system and the management of surplus allowances, has not yet been completed.
However, in our report we point out that attention should also be paid to the fundamental issues of market integrity and implementation, so that the EU can be sure that this basic instrument is adequate enough to meet the expectations of reducing emissions and low-carbon technologies.
We have made some practical recommendations to the Commission and Member States' authorities to improve market integrity and implement the system so that the EU ETS becomes a more effective tool for achieving the climate targets by 2020 and beyond.
The Commission agreed with the recommendation contained in the report that significant other issues relating to the regulation and supervision of the carbon market should be addressed, in order to improve market integrity if necessary and to ensure that many improvements have already been made in phase III (2013-2020), in particular with regard to our comments.
This report aroused great media interest and was presented to accredited journalists by the EU at a press conference in Brussels.
In the EU and around the world, the press stated that the EU ETS should be more supervised in order to improve the carbon market and that it should be more protected from market abuse, including the continued high risk of VAT fraud.
As usual with regard to all special reports, the Member responsible for the report, Kevin Cardiff, in this case, presented the report of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, as well as the Committee on Parliament and the Environment Council, in order to convey to them the conclusions of the Court which may form the basis for future decisions on the relevant provisions and regulations.
Parliament and the Council welcomed our comments and recommendations and will take into account future proposals to improve the integrity and implementation of the system.
Control team (left to right): Stefan Den Engelsen, Emese Fésűs, Kevin Cardiff and Colm Friel.
Our actions 24 • Are fisheries partnership agreements well managed by the Commission?
(No 11/2015) This Special Report examines whether contracts are well managed.
The auditors assessed the negotiations and implementation of the agreements, the Commission's monitoring of catches and the selection and control of the actions financed.
The audit showed that although contracts were generally well managed, the quantities negotiated were often higher than the quantities declared during the previous periods.
This leads regularly to incomplete use of resources.
As the EU makes payments in full regardless of the actual catches made, the actual costs were often higher than the negotiated price.
Furthermore, reliable, uniform and complete data on actual catches of the EU fleet were missing.
When negotiating new systems, the Commission should take into account earlier utilisation rates that more closely bind payments to actual catches and ensure that the new fishing database is fully used by flag Member States and reliable catch data that can be monitored and updated.
The aim of the agreements is to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries concerned by allowing EU vessels to fish exclusively for surplus resources of partner countries.
However, auditors doubt that the so-called surplus can be reliably calculated due to a lack of reliable information. • The EU's priority to support the knowledge economy in rural areas has been breached by insufficient management of knowledge transfer and advice (No 12/2015) in the special report is analysed in particular whether management and control systems exist to effectively implement knowledge transfer and advice in the field of rural development.
The audit has shown that the implementation of EU funded vocational education and training programmes and advice in rural areas is too expensive, often leads to duplication of existing programmes and promotes existing training providers.
Auditors have detected shortcomings in administrative procedures in the Member States and insufficient supervision by the European Commission.
Member States relied too much on instructors' proposals and considered all kinds of training to be good and eligible for public support.
The lack of fair and transparent choice has led to the fact that the long-standing and long-standing supplier has been repeatedly selected and received the majority of support.
Member States should select training projects that meet the skills needs of the periodic analysis and avoid the choice of suppliers.
The EU supports training and advisory projects in rural areas through the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
€1.3 billion has been allocated to these projects for the period 2007-2013.
Together with Member States' co-financing, the total amount of public support amounted to EUR 2.2 billion.
This amount may amount to more than EUR 4 billion over the period 2014-2020.
Our actions 25 • The cost-effectiveness of EU rural development assistance for non-productive investments in agriculture (No 20/2015) in particular determines whether non-productive investments in agriculture (NPIs) are cost-effective and contribute to the achievement of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development objective of sustainable management of agricultural land during the 2007-2013 programming period.
The auditors concluded that although aid to the NPI contributed to the achievement of the objectives, it was not profitable as the costs were too high for 75% of the projects audited.
Many of these projects were financed entirely from public funds, although apparently they were profitable, and the auditors visited four Member States, which in total spent 80% of the total EU budget on NIP: Portugal, Denmark, the United Kingdom (England) and Italy (Apulia).
Only five of the 28 projects audited proved cost-effective.
The report warns that the lack of cost efficiency may not be limited to the sample as the problems identified were due to shortcomings in Member States' management and control systems.
Non-productive investments are investments that do not lead to significant income or significantly increase the value of the beneficiary's activities but have a positive impact on the environment. • EU infrastructure support in rural areas: these measures could be used in a much more efficient way (No 25/2015) the special report examines whether the European Commission and the Member States have achieved a good cost-benefit ratio through road financing, water supply systems, schools and other institutions under rural development programmes.
The audit has shown that although some infrastructure projects have made a positive contribution in rural areas, Member States and the Commission have achieved insufficient cost-benefit ratio for shared management.
Member States have not always clearly justified the need for EU funding for rural development.
The risk that projects would be supported without EU funding could not be effectively managed.
The report concludes that the Commission has adopted a more active and coordinated approach since 2012.
Correct implementation should lead to improved financial management for the period 2014-2020.
Between 2007 and 2013, the rural development programmes allocated EUR 13 billion to rural infrastructure.
Our actions 26 100 80 60 40 20 0 Foreign policy 65 billion EUR 6% Europe in the world The "Europe in the world" section covers the EU's external relations (foreign policy), including enlargement issues, as well as EU development and humanitarian aid.
During the 2014-2020 programming period, the EU allocated 6% of the planned total expenditure, i.e. EUR 65 billion.
In 2015, the budget amounted to EUR 7.5 billion.
Additional appropriations will be made available through the European Development Fund, which is not part of the EU budget and is therefore not covered by the multiannual financial framework. • EU police mission in Afghanistan: Mixed results (No 7/2015) in the Special Report assess whether the EU police mission (EUPOL) was well planned and coordinated, whether it received appropriate operational support and appropriate guidance, whether it contributed to progress in the field of the Afghan national police and whether it was prepared in the appropriate form.
The audit has shown that EUPOL has partially fulfilled the objective of contributing to the establishment of permanent and effective civilian police forces under Afghan responsibility.
In an environment characterised by the lack of trained, fully functioning Afghan police forces, high illiteracy and widespread corruption in Afghan police and judicial systems EUPOL has managed to contribute to the reform of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the professionalisation of national police.
However, due to persistent weaknesses in the police and judicial sector in Afghanistan, there is a risk that EUPOL and the overall police sector will not survive by the end of 2016.
The total cost of EUPOL for the period from May 2007 to December 2014 was almost EUR 400 million, with security costs almost a third of that amount.
At the end of 2014, the EU sent a total of 32 missions under the Common Security and Defence Policy, 16 of which have ended and ended and 16 are still ongoing.
Our actions 27 • EU support for the fight against torture and the abolition of the death penalty (No 9/2015) This special report assesses whether torture prevention, rehabilitation of torture victims and abolition of the death penalty under the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights are effectively supported.
The audit has shown that, although EU-funded projects are effective, projects are often not sufficiently targeted and have a limited scope of action as funds are distributed in accordance with the casting principle.
However, the Commission has not sufficiently taken into account national human rights priorities.
Projects have often not been well coordinated with other EU actions such as development aid and political dialogue.
They were generally implemented by involved and competent organisations.
The recommendations of the auditors concerned the targeting of financial resources, better coordination with other EU actions, the selection and improvement of project proposals, the measurement of results and the sustainability of beneficiary organisations.
The European Union acts by diplomatic means and grants grants to non-governmental organisations through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights.
• EU support to timber-producing countries under the FLEGT Action Plan (No 13/2015), in this special report, examines whether the Commission has managed well the aid granted under the EU FLEGT Action Plan to combat illegal logging.
The auditors concluded that although the Action Plan is a positive initiative, its results are generally thinner.
The aid was not granted to timber-producing countries on the basis of clear criteria and its impact was weakened due to the large number of countries competing for aid.
These countries have made significant differences in progress.
Insufficient progress is particularly due to the lack of adequate planning by the Commission and the lack of clear priorities for the allocation of resources to wood producing countries.
The auditors recommended that the Commission set clear objectives and ways of achieving them.
Four Member States still need to fully implement the EU Wood Regulation, which was introduced to prevent illegal timber from being imported into the EU market.
Between 2003 and 2013, 35 countries received EUR 300 million under the Action Plan.
Two of these countries, Indonesia and Ghana, have moved forward towards a full timber authorisation system.
Overall, little progress has been made and many countries have encountered difficulties in overcoming obstacles to responsible policies.
Within 12 years of the Commission's implementation of the action plan, no partner country has been able to implement a fully recognised authorisation scheme.
Our actions 28 • ACP Investment Facility: does it offer added value?
(No 14/2015) This Special Report assesses whether the Investment Facility has added value to EU development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries.
The audit showed that the Investment Facility does indeed add value to EU development cooperation with ACP countries and that it fits well into EU policy objectives.
At the end of 2014, credit lines represented 28% of the instrument's portfolio compared with 14% at the end of 2010.
This increase reflects the continuing importance of the long-term financing offered under the instrument.
The instrument also acted as a catalyst in a positive sense by mobilising additional measures.
However, the auditors found that the contractual obligation to inform the final beneficiaries of the financing by the European Investment Bank (EIB) or the Investment Facility is not always fulfilled and technical assistance is not always targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises.
They have made recommendations to address these problems.
The ACP Investment Facility established in 2003 receives its capital from the European Development Fund and is managed by the EIB.
This instrument has approved development projects worth €5.7 billion over the last ten years.
• Promoting renewable energy in Eastern Africa from the ACP-EU Energy Fund (No 15/2015) This special report examines whether the Commission has successfully used the energy instrument to improve access for poor groups to renewable energy in eastern Africa.
The audit has shown that some significant successes have been achieved, but even better monitoring of the instrument is needed.
Although the Commission has made a good choice from the proposed projects, the progress of the project is not sufficiently closely monitored.
The reports of the project managers differed in quality and the Commission did not take any action to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements.
In the case of projects known to have had serious problems, Commission officials have carried out insufficient on-the-spot visits and monitoring checks to supplement the information provided by the administrators.
The report sets out recommendations for more rigorous selection, better monitoring and improvement of the sustainability of future projects.
By mid-2014 a total of EUR 268 million was allocated, of which EUR 106 million was allocated to projects in eastern Africa, which was the least access to electricity in Africa.
Our actions 29 • Analysis of the risk associated with the performance-based approach to EU development and cooperation activities (No 21/2015) due to the increased interest which has recently been intended to shift the priorities of EU development policy and cooperation from action to results.
The auditors have identified nine significant risks: inconsistent terminology related to performance or a logical chain of actions, products, effects and impacts; greater complexity resulting from the inclusion of cross-cutting issues in EU programmes; lack of harmonisation of aid instruments, performance frameworks and accountability structures of partners for development; shortcomings in assessing and drawing up performance reports; lack of consolidated reports or review of results obtained through EU assistance; lack of sufficient, relevant, reliable and up-to-date data; focus on budgetary results as a target; change of the context of the action.
The audit showed that these risk areas were correctly identified by the Commission in a number of different documents.
Nevertheless, further efforts are needed to exploit the full potential of the Commission's initiatives and to improve the EU's development and cooperation performance.
In this context, a number of recommendations have been made which the Commission should take into account.
Our actions 30 100 80 60 40 20 0 Financial and economic governance The objective of the EU's economic governance framework is to address problematic financial and economic trends such as excessive public deficits or public debt, which can hamper economic growth and threaten the sustainability of public finances.
Part of this framework is the creation of an EU Banking Union.
According to the 2014 European Banking Authority report, this special report was the second report we published on the subject.
In 2008, Europe was faced with a financial crisis which has become a sovereign debt crisis.
The sovereign debt crisis was a consequence of various factors, such as weak banking supervision, insufficient fiscal policy and difficulties faced by large financial institutions (and the resulting costs of saving those institutions that were borne by society).
The crisis hit the EU Member States in two waves: in 2008-2009 they first met with non-euro area countries and then spread to the euro area itself.
Our auditors examined how the European Commission managed the financial assistance provided under the Balance of Payments Instrument and the European Financial Stability Mechanism during the crisis for which the Commission invested funds in capital markets, with the EU budget as a guarantee.
The audit concerned financial assistance granted to Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Ireland and Portugal, with particular emphasis on the Commission's role in these programmes.
In addition, our auditors analysed the Commission's cooperation with the European Central Bank (ECB) partners in Frankfurt and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Washington.
The audit evidence was obtained through detailed review and analysis of documents and discussions with Commission officials, national authorities, the ECB and the IMF.
The partners and decisions taken at EU political level were not subject to scrutiny.
The audit showed that the European Commission was not prepared for the first requests for financial assistance during the financial crisis in 2008, as no warning signals were observed, which initially explains significant shortcomings in its administrative processes.
The auditors identified four main problem areas in the Commission's crisis management: different approaches, limited quality control, insufficient monitoring and shortcomings in the documentation.
In some programmes, the conditions for granting aid were less stringent and thus easier to meet.
They also claimed that the Commission's teams did not carry out sufficient verification of important documents, did not check the calculations underlying them from anyone outside the team, did not examine the work of experts in detail and did not sufficiently document the verification procedure.
However, our actions 31 Auditors believe that, despite the lack of experience, the Commission has managed to carry out its new administrative tasks and launch financial assistance programmes relevant to the reform process, which should be considered a success given the time pressure.
In addition, the auditors found that during the crisis, the Commission increasingly developed internal expertise and cooperated with a number of stakeholders in the countries concerned and that, as a result of subsequent reforms, improved macro-economic surveillance was introduced.
For example, the objectives of the programmes have been achieved, adjusted deficit targets have been largely achieved, structural deficits have improved and Member States have fulfilled most of the conditions of their programmes, although with some delays.
In most cases, countries continued the reforms under the programme and in four out of five countries the current account adjustment was faster than expected.
Our auditors stressed that there are still a number of shortcomings and that the Commission needs to improve its financial aid management procedures.
We have made a number of recommendations to the European Commission to ensure that financial assistance is better managed in the future when Member States experiencing difficulties ask for assistance.
This report was widely echoed, especially in European media, but also in the United States and Australia.
Like other special reports, it is presented to the addressees in the European Parliament and the Council by our Member, Mr Baudilio Veneto Muguruza, responsible for the report.
Control team (left to right): Didier Lebrun, Ignacio García de Parada, Kristian Sniter, Josef Jindra, Giuseppe Diana, Baudilio Island Muguruza, Adrian Savin, Daniela Hristova, Zacharias Kolias, Marco Fians and Daniel Costa de Magalhães.
Our actions 32 • EU supervision of credit rating agencies is based on solid grounds, but is not yet fully effective (No 22/2015) this special report examines whether the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) is successfully functioning in the EU as a supervisory authority for credit rating agencies.
The financial crisis in 2008 increased the focus on credit rating agencies and their impact on financial markets.
During this period, credit rating agencies in Europe were only slightly regulated.
The audit has shown that although ESMA has developed good grounds, its rules and guidelines are not complete and there are still serious risks.
The auditors concluded that ESMA could reduce the average duration of the registration procedure, but the procedure remains complex.
While rating methods should be rigorous, systematic and sustainable and subject to validation, ESMA's activities focus primarily on whether these methods are rigorous.
The current Eurosystem credit assessment framework does not ensure that all credit rating agencies registered with ESMA operate on a level playing field, creating a two-step market structure that puts small credit rating agencies at a disadvantage.
The auditors made certain recommendations to ESMA regarding the registration procedure, the traceability of risk detection, surveillance procedures and information systems. • Technical assistance to Greece: Improving accessibility requires a greater focus on results (No 19/2015) in this Special Report examines whether the task force for Greece has fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance to Greece has effectively contributed to the reform process.
The Task Force was set up by the Commission in 2011 to support Greece's economic adjustment through a number of technical assistance measures.
The auditors checked whether the task force had fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance had effectively contributed to the reform.
They obtained evidence from the Commission, service providers, Greek ministries and other interested parties.
The audit showed that the Greek authorities received technical assistance in accordance with the mandate but did not always go well enough with the reforms.
Due to the urgency of the situation, the Task Force was set up in a short time and without a full analysis of other options or its own budget.
The Task Force did not have a complex, comprehensive strategic document to provide technical assistance or set priorities.
The aid provided was appropriate and largely in line with the programme's requirements, and the Task Force developed a flexible and differentiated implementation system, but there were shortcomings at project level.
Greece's parliament building, Athens, Greece.
Our actions 33 Other 8,2 % 100 80 60 40 20 0 VAT 12,8 % TEM 13,3% % GNI 65,7 % Revenue The EU budget is financed mainly from income from three types of own resources.
These include own resources based on gross national income (GNI) and VAT and traditional own resources (CS), in particular customs duties on products and sugar levies imported into the EU.
In addition, the EU receives taxes on the salaries of EU workers, third country contributions to certain EU programmes and fines from companies that violate EU rules and regulations.
EU expenditure must be fully covered by revenue.
In 2015, revenue amounted to EUR 141.3 billion. • Combating intra-Community VAT fraud: further action (No 24/2015) is needed in the special report to examine whether the EU is effectively combating intra-Community VAT fraud.
Because of organised crime, the European Union loses between EUR 40 billion and EUR 60 billion in VAT revenue each year.
Since exports of goods and services from one Member State to another are exempt from VAT, criminals in both countries may cheat.
In this way, both the countries concerned and the EU lose their income.
The audit showed serious shortcomings indicating insufficient effectiveness of the current system.
In order to combat intra-Community VAT fraud, the EU has a number of instruments, but some of these instruments need to be improved or applied in a more coherent way.
Most Member States visited do not have effective cross-checks between customs data and tax data; Member States' tax authorities exchange information on VAT, but there are problems regarding the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of data; lack of cooperation and the imposition of powers between administrative, judicial and law enforcement authorities.
Member States, the European Parliament and the European Commission must take action to improve the system.
Our actions 34 opinions in 2015. Also in our opinions on proposals for new or revised legislation with financial implications, we contribute to improving the EU's financial management.
These opinions shall be issued at the request of other EU institutions and shall be used by the legislative bodies in the framework of the work of Parliament and the Council.
Furthermore, on our own initiative, we can issue documents and analyses on other issues.
In 2015, we issued eight opinions on a number of important areas: • Opinion No 1/2015 on the proposal for amending the Council's Financial Regulation on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union; • Opinion No 2/2015 on the proposal for amending the Financial Regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office; • Opinion No 3/2015 on the Proposal for a Financial Regulation of the Single Resolution Committee; • Opinion No 4/2015 on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) (for further details in the framework); • Opinion No 5/2015 on the proposal for amending the Regulation of the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market; • Opinion No 63/2015 on the proposal for amending the Financial Regulation of the Single Resolution Committee; • Opinion No 71/2015 on the proposal for amending the Regulation on traditional VAT and GNI-based own resources and the financial resources necessary to make available the financial resources; • Opinion No 84/2015 on the proposal for amending the Financial Regulation of the European Development Fund.
In response to the fall in investment since 2007, the Commission launched an investment offensive for Europe in November 2014.
The Investment Plan is based on the logic of intervention that there is a high demand for investment in Europe and many economically viable projects for which sources of funding are sought.
The challenge is to make effective use of savings and liquidity to promote sustainable employment and growth in Europe.
The Investment Plan is to be implemented without burdening national budgets and new debt.
From this investment plan to its full implementation, the Commission promises to create between 1 million and 1.3 million new jobs and to mobilise additional (mainly long-term) investment funds of at least EUR 315 billion in 2015-2017.
In order to contribute to the success of this initiative, we have drawn attention in our opinion to issues relating to governance and the legal framework, rules on external responsibility and audit and financial commitments for public budgets.
We also stressed that for instruments where the EU cooperates with the private sector, an adequate level of transparency and accountability for public funds should be ensured.
In addition, the results of these instruments should be measured with a view to achieving the objectives of the actions financed.
We have pointed out that the proposal does not explicitly describe agreements between the Commission and the European Investment Bank.
Our opinion has been taken into account by regulatory authorities in Regulation (EU) 2015/1017 on EFSI.
Our actions 35 Contribution to EU accountability through high-level events and conferences we organise conferences on topics where we have identified threats and which, thanks to our expertise, can contribute to the EU's responsibility, thereby raising awareness of the importance of sound financial management and financial control of the EU.
In 2015, we organised the two conferences described below, which correspond to our strategic objective of cooperation with our partners under the EU clearing obligation.
During the year, we also organised seminars with internal and external experts to exchange knowledge about recent developments in EU policy and to use information to plan and conduct our audits.
For example, a seminar on progress in the reform of the common agricultural policy was held in October, attended by representatives of the Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
The Conference of the Court on Energy Security in the EU On 5 May 2015 a conference on energy security in the EU took place in Brussels to provide a neutral and independent platform for stakeholders from EU institutions, Member States, energy industry and universities to discuss the challenges facing the EU in the field of energy security.
Our President, Vítor Caldeira, opened the conference and Maroš Šefčovič, one of the Vice-Presidents of the Commission, gave an introductory speech.
Our members: Szabolcs Fazakas and Phil Wynn Owen From left to right: Szabolcs Fazakas, Maroš Šefčovič, Vítor Caldeira and Phil Wynn Owen. They held a conference which included panel discussions on two main areas: obstacles to the completion of the internal energy market and Ukraine's significant contribution to European energy supply as an important transit country.
We have organised this conference because the EU is facing a number of serious challenges that are linked to each other.
These include the creation of an internal energy market to increase the competitiveness of the European economy, to combat climate change and to increase energy security.
In our tests, we are increasingly focusing on energy and climate issues.
We have already prepared specific reports on issues such as the internal energy market and security of energy supply, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
Further reports are also planned in this area, including on EU support to Ukraine and EU expenditure on climate action, as well as an analysis of the EU's energy and climate situation.
Our aim is to create added value for the EU's energy policy; thanks to this conference, we have shown that we also want to support the democratic debate on these issues.
Our actions 36 The Court's Conference on the Future of Development Assistance On 20-21 October 2015 in Luxembourg, we organised an international conference on European development aid after 2015 within the framework of the European Year for Development, the adoption of new UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Luxembourg Presidency.
At the beginning of the two-day conference chaired by our member, Danièle Lamarque, President Vítor Caldeira followed by the Luxembourg Minister for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid, Romain Schneider, on behalf of the EU Presidency, President of the European Parliament Development Committee, Linda McAvan, EU Commissioner for Development Neven Mimica and UN Undersecretary General Grete Faremo.
The conclusions of the conference were summarised by Marc Angel, President of the Committee on Foreign and European Affairs, and by the Luxembourg Chamber of MEPs.
The EU is the world's largest donor of development aid and cooperates with many public and private partners, including international organisations, foundations, NGOs and countries.
It is becoming increasingly important to ensure that aid is effective, which can be achieved through strict compliance with the criteria for allocation and evaluation of aid.
In this context, the Court plays a huge role.
The new UN Sustainable Development Goals 2015-2030 are more ambitious than the previous Millennium Development Goals and encourage the addressees to think and act differently.
Participants agreed that development aid must be adapted to environmental, energy and migration policies and other policy areas and that new stakeholders should be involved.
In addition, development agencies need to adapt to the growing diversification of funding and financial instruments: innovative financial instruments contribute to increasing leverage and bringing closer to market conditions, but at the same time make it difficult to make financial decisions and determine the added value of aid.
The European Commission has given a lecture on what a result-oriented budget should look like, in which the way in which EU spending and results are clearly defined.
The Court also participates in a joint interinstitutional working group set up for this purpose.
Our actions 37 Relations with the addressees The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union The value of our contribution to the EU's clearing obligation depends to a large extent on the benefits our main partners derive from our work and products in the legislative and accountability process.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funds: the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and national parliaments.
In line with our strategy for 2013-2017, we have paid particular attention to improving our working relations with Parliament and the Council.
The President and the Members of the Court have regular contacts with the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT), which is our most important partner.
In 2015, President Vítor Caldeira presented our annual work programme and our annual reports at two CONT meetings and presented the annual reports at two Parliament plenary sessions and took part in the debate on relocation.
On the initiative of Ville Itälä, our member in charge of institutional relations, President Caldeira presented our work programme for 2015 also at the Conference of Committee Chairs and announced his priorities to plan our 2016 work programme.
In October 2015, CONT carried out a working visit to the Court, continuing the practice of annual bilateral meetings at the Court's headquarters in Luxembourg. In addition, our representatives participated in visits to Member States (Greece) and beneficiary countries (Serbia) organised by CONT.
In 2015, our members represented the Court in 29 CONT meetings to discuss our annual and special reports.
Our members also submitted nine special reports to the committees concerned.
We also held a joint meeting with Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and the Environment to discuss issues of common interest and started working with Parliament's Scientific Service to promote a more effective exchange of knowledge between our control chambers and services.
We have also worked with the Council to strengthen and improve relations with the Council and its Presidency.
In November, President Caldeira and Pierre Gramegna, Luxembourg's Finance Minister and President of the ECOFIN Council met during the Luxembourg Presidency to discuss further actions taken under the 2014 discharge procedure on the basis of our 2014 annual report.
As part of the various Council working groups, we presented our work programme for 2015 and 15 special reports.
We have also presented the various chapters of the annual report to the Committee on Budgets as the basis for the discharge procedure.
Annual meeting of the Court's representatives with the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
Our actions 38 Strengthening partnership with national parliaments and authorities During the year we have worked closely with our addressees in the Member States.
National Parliaments have systematically informed us about our work.
In addition, the President and the Members of the Court presented an annual report to national Parliaments and the authorities of most Member States.
In addition, meetings were held with representatives of national parliaments and national authorities at the premises of the Court and in the Member States.
We continued our initiative launched in 2014 to organise high-level visits to EU Member States to deepen our partnerships with the national authorities responsible for EU financial management and control.
In April 2015, a high-level delegation of the Court went to Poland to highlight the importance of public control and responsibility for EU funds, to increase the Court's visibility in this area and to start a dialogue with the Polish authorities concerned.
These included meetings with the president of Poland Bronisław Komorowski, the head of the Prime Minister's firm, both chambers of parliament, state authorities and local authorities, and in particular from ORB Poland.
Discussions focused primarily on public responsibility and control, as well as a recent analysis of EU legislation on public responsibility and control.
Meetings with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development were an opportunity to discuss our analysis of Landscape, the results of relevant research and best practices.
Our delegation visited two EU-funded projects and one is managed by public authorities and the other by a private beneficiary.
The high-level visit to Poland was supplemented by visits to the Czech Republic (June 2015) and Bulgaria (November 2015).
In the Czech Republic, our representatives met with the President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman, Prime Minister and Parliament.
They also participated in the joint meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Deputies, during which the results of the audits of the common agricultural policy and cohesion were discussed in the previous programming period, which were relevant to the Czech Republic.
During this visit, our representatives contributed to the conference on electronic data and their importance for future controls organised by the Czech ORB.
During her visit to Bulgaria, our delegation met with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Rosen Plevneliev, Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, President of Parliament, Tsetska Tsafteva and other representatives of Parliament.
In addition, the members of the delegation took part in a conference on the importance of external control for the effective management of the public sector, organised on the 135th anniversary of the establishment of the ORB of Bulgaria and the 20th anniversary of the resumption of its activities.
From left to right: Vítor Caldeira (President of the European Court of Auditors), Krzysztof Kwiatkowski (President of the ORKB of Poland) and Augustyn cubic (member of the Polish Court of Auditors).
Our activities 39 Cooperation with the highest audit bodies The Court cooperates with other supreme audit bodies (ORKBs). This cooperation is mainly carried out through the ORKB Contact Committee of EU Member States; • the ORKB networks of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • international organisations of public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
The Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the EU Member States In accordance with the Treaty on European Union, the Court and the national control authorities shall cooperate with each other with full confidence in maintaining their independence.
Cooperation with CMRs of EU Member States shall be actively conducted within the Contact Committee, including an annual meeting and various working groups, networks and task forces dealing with specific issues of common interest.
The Contact Committee met in Riga in 2015.
During the meeting, members of the Contact Committee discussed the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI), the prevention and repression of irregularities and fraud, and the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020.
Issues concerning the Single Supervisory Mechanism have also been raised.
The Contact Commission has adopted a statement on the principles of accountability and financial control of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, addressed to national parliaments and governments, as well as to the EU institutions and bodies concerned.
In addition, the Contact Committee agreed with the proposal to carry out parallel checks on the implementation of the GSM and the contribution of the Structural Funds to the Europe 2020 strategy and the associated risks to the sustainability of public finances.
In November 2015, the Court launched the inaugural meeting of the Working Party on the Structural Funds VII. In order to determine to what extent EU financial support in the field of education and employment contributes effectively to the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The network of the highest audit bodies in candidate countries and potential candidate countries Cooperation between the Court and CMR of candidate countries and potential candidate countries is primarily carried out through a network1 comparable to the Contact Committee.
In 2015, we continued to support the network in carrying out a parallel energy efficiency assessment.
The last workshop devoted to this project took place in May 2015 at the Court's premises in Luxembourg.
The Court participates in the preparation of new projects to start in 2016 and focuses on performance and accounting controls.
In May 2015, representatives of the Court took part in the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the creation of the European Central Bank (ECB) of Albania.
To this end, President Caldeira and President of the Republic of Albania Bujar Nishani met.
Eight ORKB examiners took part in our internship program for 2015.
1 In January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and a potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has been participating in the network as an observer. * This name does not affect positions on Kosovo's status and is in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the declaration of Kosovo's independence.
Our 40 multilateral activities (INTOSAI EUROSAI) and bilateral cooperation In 2015, we continued to actively participate and participate in INTOSAI and EUROSAI activities, especially in the relevant working bodies.
In November, starting with the International Congress of Supreme Audit Authorities (INCOSAI) at the end of 2016, the Court was appointed Vice-President of the INTOSAI Technical Standards Committee.
In addition, we responded to the request of the Ukrainian KRKB, which chaires the working group on the assessment of disaster aid, to host the first meeting of this working group.
The Court is also an active member of the EUROSAI Task Force on Evaluation and Ethics, which wishes to promote ethical behaviour and integrity in the ORB and public institutions.
The main objective of the Task Force is to establish and strengthen the framework for promoting ethical behaviour by making available to EFSA appropriate practical guidelines and tools to support daily research.
We took part in the fifth joint EUROSAI-ARABOSAI conference on the supervision of state aid plans and the second Young EUROSAI conference, which gave young auditors the opportunity to discuss current issues.
We also visited the World Leader Forum, the main theme of which was the role of public sector auditors in 2030.
The Court maintains good bilateral relations with other ORBs.
For example, in 2015 our delegation participated in an international seminar organized by ORB Poland for auditors from Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine in Warsaw.
The members of the delegation have spoken with the ORKB of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and the Slovak Republic about their experience with developing and building capacity to prepare for accession to the EU and have provided training on our compliance and efficiency control methods.
Cooperation with the ORB in the framework of international peer review assessments (specialised assessment) is a customary way of promoting best practices and promoting quality assurance.
The IntosAI Sub-Committee on Reviews is responsible for updating the ISSAI 5600 peer review guide (ISSAI means international standards for the highest control authorities).
In 2015, we significantly contributed to the review of this guide, which will be adopted by the INCOSAI Congress in 2016.
In addition, we have played a leading role in international peer reviews of the ORKB of Latvia, Spain and Switzerland.
The technical evaluation of the ORKB of Latvia was very comprehensive in terms of accounting control methods and procedures and compliance with regulations and performance, as well as the effectiveness of support functions.
The technical evaluation of the ORKB in Spain, led by the ORKB in Portugal, also covered many aspects of its functioning.
During the technical evaluation of the Swiss ORKB, we were the only observers.
The evaluation assessed the appropriateness of this strategy and its planning and quality control processes.
Our management 41 College of the Court The College of the Court is composed of one member from each Member State.
The members shall be appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament for a six-year term, as proposed by each Member State.
In accordance with the Treaty, members shall carry out their tasks in full independence and for the benefit of the general good of the European Union.
The chairman shall be elected by the members of them for a period of three years.
The term of office of the chairman and members shall be renewable.
The majority of members belong to one of the five chambers which adopt audit reports, opinions and position papers and decide on broader strategic and administrative issues.
In addition, each member shall be responsible for his or her own tasks mainly in the field of audit.
A member, assisted by his office, shall coordinate appropriate teams of auditors.
It shall then adopt the presentation of reports, opinions or documents of positions to be adopted by the Chamber and/or the entire College of the Court and subsequently by Parliament, the Council and other relevant addressees, including the media.
In selected cases and at the initiative of members, the report may also be submitted to the authorities of the Member States concerned.
One of the members of Ville Itälä is responsible for institutional relations.
In 2015, at the request of a Member State and after consulting the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union appointed Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) as a member of the Court.
This Decision shall apply from 1 September 2015 until 28 February 2018, i.e. for the remainder of the current term of office of the previous Danish member of Henrik Otbo, who died suddenly in February 2015.
College of the Court as at 31 December 2015
K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K.
Our governance 43 The Court's 2013-2017 strategy: Continuous progress Our five-year strategy aims to maximise the value of our contribution to EU public responsibility.
Our main objective is to achieve this goal: many initiatives launched under the strategy have already been implemented.
We have expanded the range of products, strengthened and expanded our relations with our addressees, accelerated our control procedures and improved the way we measure our own results.
In 2015, the Court decided to reform its organisational structure.
In this way, we will take into account the European Parliament's recommendations on the future role of the Court and the results of the international peer review procedure carried out in 2014 with regard to our performance controls.
The Court's strategic priorities for 2013-2017: Compilation of the Court's products to improve the EU's reference obligation to cooperate with our PARTNERS in the review obligation for the Court of Justice's proof of efficiency and to carry out its reference obligation 03 04 OPTIMAL USE OF THE KNOWLEDGE EXISTING TO THE COURT AND ON COMPETITATION AND CONSULTATION OF THE COURT'S PROFESSIONAL PROCEDURE FOR CONTROL 01 05 02
Our management 44 The reform of the Court's objective 1 additional start of the audit exercise Objective 2 The setting of closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed, closed closed closed closed closed closed closed closed, closed closed closed closed closed closed closed, closed closed closed closed closed closed, closed closed closed closed closed closed, closed closed closed closed closed closed, closed closed closed closed closed, closed closed closed, closed closed closed, closed closed closed, closed closed, closed closed, closed closed, closed, closed closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed
Our management 45 Flexible response in a rapidly changing environment We have developed a new work planning process that will allow us to plan our work based on priorities and comprehensive risk assessment for the whole Court.
When planning our work, we systematically take into account the views of the addressees to ensure that our reports are as important as possible.
With the support of our Member for institutional relations, our President and Members shall cooperate with EU citizens, including the European Parliament's committees.
Flexible provision of resources for priority control tasks We have organised our staff in flexible teams around specific tasks, not in departments, to facilitate the allocation of priority tasks.
This means that now we can use the right person for the right job fully using its skills and potential.
The reform also contributed to the improvement of the Court's governance: the heads of departments have become managers who share management tasks under the direction of the relevant director and transfer their quality and oversight expertise.
We are also strengthening our research expertise and introducing knowledge transfer tools to further improve our knowledge management processes.
Fast product delivery We have improved our control procedures and simplified task management so that we can deliver the products in good time.
In recent years, we have constantly reduced the average time needed to prepare our special reports and the reform will allow for further shortening.
This is particularly important in the context of the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation.
Better communication about our role and our work We revised our annual report to refer to the headings of the multiannual financial framework and thus make it easier to use and more readable.
In the annual report, we present several years of reports on the main expenditure areas and results.
In addition, we have strengthened the communication and relations functions with the addressees and hired one spokesperson.
Our management 46 Performance measurements Since 2008 we have been using key performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform management about progress in achieving our goals, supporting decision-making and providing our addressees with information on results.
They reflect our priorities and define our achievements and accountability as a professional examination body.
These indicators are used to measure the basic parameters of quality and impact of our work, with particular emphasis on the position of key recipients and the effectiveness and effectiveness of resource use.
ZLI has been updated for the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy.
Quality and impact of our work We assess the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of assessments carried out by the addressees and reviews carried out by experts.
In addition, we measure our presence in the media.
Evaluation of the addressees We asked the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgets of the Council, the main bodies controlled by the Commission and the EU Agencies, as well as the EU-ORKB Presidents, to assess the usefulness and impact of our reports published in 2015 on a five-step scale from very low to very high.
The answers show that 90% of our main addressees assess the value of our reports as suitable for their work (compared with 94% in 2014). 92% believe that our work is effective (91% in 2014).
Rating of recipients 10% 21% 45% 24% 2% 0 % very low 20% average 40 % very high Properties of reports Probably impact of reports 60 % 80 % 100% 6% 23% 45% 24%
Our management 47 reviews carried out by experts Every year independent external experts check the content and presentation of the sample of our reports for quality assessment. In 2015, the auditors assessed four special reports and annual reports for the financial year 2014.
They assessed the quality of the various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale with a significant impact on them? (1) to an extremely high quality. (4)
Expert assessments in 2015 were higher than in the previous four years and the overall average was 3.3 for both types of reports.
Follow-up to recommendations We contribute primarily to improving the EU's financial management by making recommendations to the Commission and other audited bodies in our reports.
Some recommendations can be quickly implemented while others require more time due to their complexity.
We regularly check to what extent our recommendations have been implemented by the evaluation bodies.
By the end of 2015, 73% of the more than 600 recommendations that we have prepared between 2012 and 2015 have been implemented.
This represents an increase compared to the 2014 implementation rate of 69% for recommendations issued between 2011 and 2014.
Reviews of the Court's reports by experts in 2012 2014 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.3 Quality assessment 01234 Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year in which payments were made 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 0% 91 % 80 % 50 % 50 % 2012 2014 2015
It concerns the strategic objective of raising the Court's awareness of its products and its findings from the audit and the conclusions of the audit.
In 2015, we identified some 3400 online articles on our special reports, annual reports and the Court in general.
54% of these concerned our audit reports and the other articles referred to the Court and its work in general.
In 2015, almost twice as many of our annual reports were reported in the media as in 2014.
Compared to 2014, the number of media reports on our special reports has decreased, mainly due to the interest of this year's report (airport infrastructure financed by the EU (No 21/2014) for which more than 800 articles have been published).
Efficiency and efficiency of resource use We assess the efficiency and effectiveness of resource use depending on the extent to which we are able to implement our work programme, carry out audits as soon as possible and ensure the competence of our employees.
Implementation of the work programme We plan our audits and other tasks on the basis of the annual work programme and monitor progress over the year.
In 2015, we implemented our work programme at 88%.
While the work on the annual reports and the special annual reports was carried out as planned, this was 69% compared to our very ambitious planning.
The completion of the remaining special reports, which were delayed due to the acquisition of control evidence or unexpected complexity, was carried over at the beginning of 2016.
Special reports concern mainly new or innovative audits which, by their nature, may take longer.
The Court's draft reform, which is assessed under the "Other tasks' section, has not been carried out as planned.
Implementation of the Court's 2015 work programme 100 % 80 % 60 % 40% 40% 20% 0% 0% Special reports Annual reports Other tasks Total 100% 69 % 100 % 88 %
Our management 49 Preparation of special reports In order to be able to influence our special reports, they should be submitted in due course.
In recent years, we have been able to reduce the time needed for the audit, mainly based on initiatives resulting from the 2013-2017 strategy.
In 2015, we prepared 25 special reports over an average period of 17 months (19 months in 2014), for the first time in less than 18 months.
We will continue our efforts to reduce the time needed to prepare our special reports, in particular in response to the new principle laid down in the amended Financial Regulation.
Vocational training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we try to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training (except language courses).
Once again, the target level of professional training for controllers has been exceeded, which shows how important we attach to the development of human resources.
In 2015, taking into account language courses, one examiner represented an average of 9.4 days of training.
Duration of special reports 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20% 0% 5 % 1 SB 4 %1 SB Longer than 26 months 18-26 Months 10-18 Months 60 % 12 SB 54 % 13 SB 35 % 7 SB 42 % 10 SB 2013 2014 2015 36 % 9 SB 60 % 15 SB Training days for examiners for 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Average number of days of training for examiners (without language courses) Objective ≥ 5 days 6, 6.2 2013 2014 Days
Support for 50 control actions Human resources Allocation of human resources In 2015, we continued to reduce employment by 1 % per year, planned for five years (2013-2017), in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement of December 2013 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
Therefore, in 2015 the number of employees decreased from 882 temporary officials and temporary staff to 872 (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
The controller's staff consisted of 562 staff, including 113 staff in the members' office.
Recruitment The Court's staff has a broad academic and professional context and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's findings.
Our recruitment policy is in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, which include both officials and temporary staff.
In 2015, we employed 63 people: 30 officials, 17 temporary staff, 11 contract staff, four seconded national experts and one consultant.
In addition, we provided 74 graduates with traineeships for a period of between three and five months.
On 31 December 2015, only 15 posts were vacant at the Court (1.7% of the total number of posts).
Total 891 882 Total 872 31 39 41 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 Control services 100 137 141 133 147 141 136 576 561 562 Service of the President Administration Translation 0 2013 2014 2015
Supporting controls 51 Balance between men and women Like other EU institutions, we have a policy of equal opportunities in staff management and employment.
For several years, we have been able to maintain the balanced participation of men and women among our employees.
The chart shows men and women at the level of responsibility as at 31 December 2015, which has not changed much in recent years.
Our action plan on equal opportunities aims to achieve a balanced participation of women and men at all levels.
Following the last recruitment waves, 50% of AD 5 to AD staff are 8 women (an increase from 48% in 2014).
In the future, the participation of women in managerial positions is expected to increase thanks to the renewal at higher and medium levels of management and the increasing participation of women in the AD functional group.
The ratio between men and women at the level of responsibility 35 % 65 % Assistants already manage 59% 41% 69% 31% 0 % 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Support for control activities 53 Age profile Age group 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 0,3% 3.0% 8.0% 13.7% 9.6% 20.9% 19.9% 20% 25% 4.1 % 0.6% 5% 10% 15 % The age profile of active servants on 31 December 2015 indicates that 52% of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
32 out of 69 directors and managers (46%) are 55 years of age or older.
Therefore, in the next five to ten years, when these workers retire, there will be a renewal in higher management positions.
Support services Vocational training The profession of controller requires continuous training to keep up with professional development and acquire new skills.
In 2015, our employees completed an average of 7.3 days of vocational training.
The participation of language courses in the total number of training days continues to decline.
Language courses accounted for 35% of the total number of training days in 2015 (compared with 43% in 2014).
Our main vocational training activities concern the modernisation of our training programmes and closer cooperation with learning opportunities both inside and outside EU institutions and bodies.
We called for cooperation with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France) to offer post-graduate studies in public and police organisations (control of public organisations and politics) and master's studies in the management of public organisations.
Cooperation continued with the European Commission, which offers language courses for our employees and with the European Academy of Administration, which supported us in organising training on personal competences.
In addition, we have strengthened our offer of courses through individual e-learning courses and training in the form of integrated learning (blended learning).
We have also continued our successful series of presentations organised by internal and external experts on audit developments and other issues related to the work of our auditors.
Finally, we introduced a framework for the Performance Recognition Awards (Performance Recognition Awards), which will reward the work of employees who do not work in managerial positions by means of special training outside the Court.
Support for control activities 54 Translation is a control support activity that allows us to do our job and achieve our communication objectives.
In 2015, the total volume of translations was as high as ever: almost 200,000 pages and an increase of almost 3% compared to 2014.
About 99% of translations were completed according to deadlines.
In addition to regular translation work, during 26 EU-wide audit visits, our translators provided language support and provided interpretation during internal events and meetings.
In addition, they supported the preparation of preliminary observations and special reports and thus participated to a greater extent in the Court's central audit procedures.
In 2015, the Translation Directorate optimised its structures by introducing a pool of assistants as a result of a review of the Court's translation and reform process.
The large project of the Directorate, GroupShare, will lead to significant improvements by further improving the work of assistant teams in order to create space to increase efficiency and automation and to harmonise the procedures of all language teams.
Information Technologies In 2015, the Directorate for Information Technology focused its efforts on adapting our administrative information systems to support the successful implementation of the reform of the Court and preparing for the development of knowledge management as support for the new organisational structure of the Court.
In addition, all functions of the full version of the Assistant audit documentation system2 have been introduced for the work related to the certification of reliability, performance audits and related reports, which means the completion of this major project.
Our new audit management system (AMS) has been launched: more than 300 plans have been created in the system and 180 control tasks have been identified and monitored using the tool.
Based on the technical basis of mobility introduced in recent years (the provision of Wi-Fi in all areas of the Court, the equipment of all laptop employees), the Directorate is currently focusing on global mobility, i.e. access to all content anywhere, at any time and on any device.
The project to develop a solution to ensure that employees have access to our information on all devices will help to maintain the functioning of the Court and to increase its effectiveness and effectiveness.
Maintenance of operations during the development and delivery of IT solutions was ensured and critical systems were available in 99.82%.
Support for control activities 55 Management and infrastructure The task of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services is to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure so that the Court can fulfil its mission and pursue its strategic objectives.
The Directorate shall also ensure that the necessary internal control, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In 2015, the Directorate continued to focus on making its activities even more efficient and more economical.
Given the exceptional situation following the terrorist attacks in Paris in November and after the crisis in Belgium, we have tightened our security measures and acquired the necessary security support in public procurement procedures.
Information on public procurement is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
The Farm Building currently has three buildings (including K1 real estate, K2 real estate and K3 real estate) and leases small areas to the IT centre for the restoration of data resources and conference room.
It also rents three offices from the European Parliament in Brussels and one office in Strasbourg.
To ensure the cost-effectiveness of our building policy, we take into account three factors: purchasing or renting, maintenance costs and interinstitutional cooperation.
In developing and implementing our building policy, as in all areas of our activity, we aim to establish and meet the highest standards of transparency and accountability.
The Community environmental management and audit system (EMAS) The Community environmental management and audit system (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme, EMAS) is an instrument for managing businesses and other organisations developed by the European Commission to assess, report and improve their environmental performance.
In 2014, we started developing an environmental management system2 which complies with the principles set out in the European EMAS standard provided for in the 2009 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council.3.
Our goal is to certify EMAS by the end of 2016.
In 2015, the EMAS project made the planned progress.
2 The EMAS project was launched at the Court in July 2013.
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation of organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS).
Support for control activities 56 Financial information The Court shall be financed by the general budget of the European Union.
Our budget accounts for about 0.087% of total EU spending and 1.51% of total administrative expenditure.
In 2015, the overall implementation rate of available budget appropriations was 98,68 %.
Budget 2015 FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 Final appropriations Commitment appropriations Appropriations in % (binding/allocated appropriations) Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (1 000 euro) 10 no. 10 U. Members of the institution 10 171 10 054 99 % 9 978 12. Officials and temporary staff 94 517 94 118 118 118 99 % 94 072 14. Other human resources and services 4 651 4 559 98 4 559 98 4 559 99 4 550 2 592 4 5, 5, 619 2 753 98, 1 990 Total Title 1 115 758 114 646 99 % 113 113 113 075 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment, equipment and various operating expenditure 20 in buildings, buildings, equipment and various administrative expenditure 20 25 for meetings and conferences Total amount of 7 7.5 2 7.5 2 m 2 2 2 m 2 2 in 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd 2nd total 2nd 2nd.
Support for control activities 57 Budget 2016 increased by 1.94% compared to 2015.
h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
The Court, like other EU institutions, is subject to the discharge procedure to support control measures 58 Control and clearance of discharge.
In April 2015, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2013, which means that our 2013 annual accounts were finally approved.
We have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our responsibility for control and management, and we have taken appropriate action in our reform.
We have notified the European Parliament of our follow-up.
Internal audit and external audit Court Internal audit body of the Court's advice on risk control by issuing opinions on the quality of internal management and control systems and recommendations to improve the management of our operations and to promote sound financial management.
In addition, the services support the work of an external auditor whose task is to certify the Court's annual accounts.
Finally, the Internal Audit Department provides information on important risks and corporate governance issues.
The Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert, shall supervise the operation of the Internal Audit Unit.
The Committee shall regularly monitor progress in the implementation of the various tasks set out in the work programme of the Internal Audit Unit.
The Committee shall also ensure the independence of the internal audit department.
In 2015, internal audit services prepared specific reports on strategic issues such as changes in our annual report, mid-term review of the implementation of our 2013-2017 strategy and monitoring the implementation of peer review recommendations and the European Parliament.
Taking into account the recommendations of the 2014 Internal Audit Unit to strengthen the internal control cycle, we have updated our IT security system and formalised the existing risk management framework and existing guidelines.
The Internal Audit Department monitored the implementation of the new guidelines and ensured that their recommendations were taken into account.
Every year we report to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
External audit of the Court Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same principles of transparency and accountability as those of the bodies it has carried out.
On 15 September 2015, the auditor's report PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à r.l. on our financial statements for the financial year 2014 was published.
Supporting audit activities 59 Opinions of the independent auditor for the financial year 2014 As regards the financial statements: In our view, the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2014 and its results and cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on rules for the application of the Financial Regulation.
Declaration by 60 of the authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that, as authorising officer by delegation, • the information contained in this report is correct and accurate and • confirm with sufficient assurance that the appropriations for the actions described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures laid down provide adequate assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the proper handling of allegations of fraud or suspected fraud, costs and benefits of controls.
This security shall be based on an assessment of the signed and available information, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers seconded, internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's opinions on the previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 25 February 2016.
© EU 2015, Source: European Court of Auditors, p. 1 (picture 3), p. 2, p. 5; Architects of the European Court of Auditors' buildings: Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013) and Paul Noël (1988). © Supreme Audit Chamber (NIK), p. 38 / Photo: Krzysztof Andrzejewski.
(Photo 1 and 2) and 20 (Photo 2); © EU, © EU, © European Commission, © European Commission, source: © 2015; source: European Commission, European Commission, source: http://www.eu, source: http://www.eu, source: http://www.EU, source: http://www.eu, source: http://www.eu, source: EU, source: EU, source: EU, source: EU, source: EU, source: EU, source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: © EU, source: source: source: source: © EU, source: source: source:, source: ©, source; source: European Union, source: EU, source: EU, source: EU, source: source: EU, source: source: source:, source:, source:, source:, source:, source; source: source: European, source: source: source: source, source: source: source: source, source: source: EU, source: EU, source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source of source of source of source of source of source of source: source: source: source: source: source: source of source of source: source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source: source: source: source of source of source of source: source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source: source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source: source: source: source: source of source of source of source: source of source of source of source of source of source of source of source: source of source of source: source of source: source: source of source: source: source: source of source of source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source: source of source: source: source: source of source: source of source of source of source of source of source of
European Court of Auditors PL 2017 Activity Report
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2018 Print ISBN 978-92-872-9644-3 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-9665-8 HTML ISBN 978-92-872-9455-5 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi: 10.2865/281586 doi: 10.2865/91294 doi: 10.2865/201624 QJ-AA-18-001-DE-C QJ-AA-18-001-DE-N QJ-AA-18-001-DE-Q
01 Images best revive the last 40 years.
These pictures show the daily work of many hundreds of workers who have worked outside in recent decades.
The selection of these photos was published in 2017 on our website (eca.europa.eu) and on social media (@EUAuditors).
The European Court of Auditors 02 Court of Auditors The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is an external auditor of the EU and one of the seven institutions of the Union.
The College of the Court has 28 members, one from each EU Member State.
The Court employs around 900 employees from all EU countries, which consist of auditors and administrative staff.
It was built in 1977 and is based in Luxembourg.
The Court's tasks are to verify that the EU ensures correct accounting, correct compliance with financial rules and that EU policies and programmes are used optimally.
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the EU's financial management and promoting accountability and transparency.
It warns against threats, ensures security of control, points to weaknesses and successes and gives guidance to policy makers and EU legislators.
The Court makes its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national parliaments and the general public.
Building of the European Court of Auditors in Placeau Kirchberg, Luxembourg, 2017
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 Prefaced President 5 2017 at a glance 6 Our activities 6 Audits 8 Publications 19 Important events 21 Relations with institutional addressees 24 Cooperation with the highest audit bodies 26 Our management 26 College of Members of the Court 26 Audit Chambers and Committees 28 Strategy 29 Working plan 29 Measurement of results 34 Our staff 34 Allocation of staff 34 Employment 35 Age profile 35 Balanced relationship between men and women 37 Support for control activities 37 Professional training 37 Written translation 37 Information technologies 38 Building 39 Environmental management 40 Liability of the Court 40 Financial information 42 Internal and external audits 44 Declaration of authorising officer by delegation 45 Annex - Publication in 2017: Special reports, opinions and publications based on analysis
Preface of the President 04 Dear Reader, Dear Reader!
In 1977, the European Court of Auditors started operations 40 years later, paying attention to the many successful actions we have put forward in terms of public responsibility and EU financial management.
In October 2017, an official ceremony took place on the occasion of the anniversary of Hof Jubilee with the participation of Her Royal Highness the Grand Duke and the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg, President of the Republic of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani and President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker.
Their participation in the event is very important for the Court as a financial institution of the European Union.
But within a year, we looked to the future.
In this way, we discussed and agreed on a strategy for the remaining three years of the current multiannual financial framework by the end of 2020.
Our citizens need access to clear and reliable information so as not to lose confidence in the EU and its bodies.
People need to see that the EU works fairly, respects the rule of law, uses public resources wisely, has clear political objectives and achieves the expected results.
As an external controller of the Union, we are well prepared to examine these aspects and report on them.
Throughout the year, we have issued special reports on a wide range of EU policies and programmes and publications based on analysis, such as Landscape analysis and rapid analysis.
We have also drawn up several opinions on legislative proposals, as well as our annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund, as well as on EU agencies and many other EU bodies.
This activity report provides a comprehensive overview of our activities in 2017 and contains important information on the Court, its budget and its staff.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President
2017 look 05 Our actions Our management • 28 special reports analysing effectiveness and • added value of EU policies and programmes in areas such as youth unemployment, the environment, migration and banking union; • Landscape analysis of EU action in the field of energy and climate change and a rapid analysis of employment reduction in the EU institutions; • five opinions on new or revised EU legislation having a significant impact on financial management, including an opinion on the EU budget regulation and an opinion on the financing of European political parties; • Annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and activities under the European Development Fund, together with a summary report on the EU 2016 review.
We welcomed two new members: Juhan Parts (Estonia) on 1 January 2017 and Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary) on 1 September 2017 • We issued a new multi-annual strategy that serves as a guide for our work and management in 2018-2020. We also revised our work plan to ensure a more strategic, coherent and applied approach to the whole Court to planning our control priorities. We also reviewed our risk management policy and strengthened our financial procedures. • We continued to reduce positions agreed between the EU institutions while implementing a policy of equal opportunities for recruitment and management of human resources.
Our activities 06 Audits We carry out various types of controls in different areas of the EU budget: • Economic efficiency checks in this area take into account the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EU policies and programmes.
These audits on the optimal use of funds focus on specific management or budget issues that we choose on the basis of criteria such as public interest, potential for improvement, risk of insufficient results or irregularities; • accounting audits and compliance audits shall be assessed for the reliability of the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions (in particular with regard to the Statement of Assurance) and whether systems or transactions in specific budgetary areas comply with the relevant rules and regulations.
On the basis of the evidence gathered during our audit work, our reports contain clear conclusions on the achievement of the EU policy objectives and the situation of budgetary and financial management of the Union.
This information helps us to make appropriate recommendations that are relevant in terms of cost-effectiveness.
A check-up visit in 2017 Most of the audit work takes place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg.
At the same time, in 2017, our auditors also carried out numerous audit visits to other EU institutions, agencies and bodies and EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States and international organisations such as the United Nations, involved in the allocation of EU funds.
We also carry out on-the-spot checks on beneficiaries of EU funds within and outside the European Union.
Thanks to these checks, we obtain direct evidence of control from stakeholders involved in the management of EU policies and programmes and the collection and payment of EU funds as well as from relevant beneficiaries.
Our main task is the frequency and intensity of our control activities in individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the type of controls we carry out.
In 2017, our auditors spent 3,670 days in on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU (2016: 4 246 days).
In the EU, our on-the-spot checks are often carried out in conjunction with the highest audit authorities of the Member States visited.
3 670 days of on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU in 2017. In addition, our auditors spent 2 300 days (2016: 2 510 days) in the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as in decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations or the OECD, as well as audit firms.
In order to obtain and approve examination evidence, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies (such as secure exchange of data and documents).
Our activities 07 5 970 test days in 2017 Spain Italy Poland France Germany United Kingdom Greece Czech Republic Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Estonia Netherlands Ireland Austria Sweden Finland Denmark Latvia Slovenia Slovakia Malta Croatia Belgium Luxembourg Lebanon Niger Georgia Nigeria Gabon Angola Switzerland Guinea-Bissau Zimbabwe Burkina Faso Malawi Mali Bosnia and Herzegovina Jordan Barbados United States Ghana Sudan Ethiopia Turkey Myanmar/Myanmar 293 280 260 377 371 153 EU Member States (3 215 test days) 5970 test days third countries (455 test days) EU institutions and bodies (2 300 test days) 129 125 117 116 103 93 84 68 66 55 52 52 32 31 23 23 18 10 4 9 10 11 13 16 20 23 26 38 41 46 50 150 250 250 300 350 400
Our actions 08 Detecting fraud In the fight against fraud from the EU budget, we work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
These matters will then be monitored by OLAF, which shall decide on a possible investigation and, where appropriate, cooperate with the authorities of the Member States.
In 2017, we gave OLAF 13 alleged cases of fraud under our control, even though our controls are not specifically designed to detect fraud, sometimes during our audit work we encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraud.
In 2017, we handed over 13 such cases to OLAF (2016: 11 cases) where fraud was suspected. We suspected that fraud was the result of our control actions on the assurance of the financial years 2016 and 2017 and other audit tasks.
Publications Our publications: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and publications based on analysis Our audit reports and opinions are an important part of the EU's liability chain as they are used to assume responsibility by the bodies responsible for EU financial management in particular under the annual discharge procedure.
In the areas of shared management, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States play an important role, as is the case with agricultural and cohesion spending, with around 80% of the EU budget being implemented.
Our range of publications includes: • specific reports presenting the results of selected audits on specific policy areas or expenditure or budgetary or management-related issues; • annual reports containing mainly the results of accounting audits and audits of compliance with the rules on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund, but also on financial management and performance aspects; • specific annual reports published separately on EU agencies, decentralised bodies and joint undertakings; • opinions on new or amended legal acts which have a significant impact on financial management at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative;
Our activities 09 • Publications based on analysis: • Landscape analyses are descriptive and analytical documents concerning complex, broad policy areas or management issues in which we often present our experiences and knowledge of the selected subject from a cross-cutting perspective; • Thematic analyses are similar to Landscape analyses, as they are also descriptive and analytical policy or management documents, but their topics are more limited; • Rapid Case Reviews provide and present facts related to very clearly defined topics or problems.
All publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
In addition, all special reports, opinions and publications based on the 2017 analysis are listed at the end of this report.
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total: 93 3 28 55 52 Special reports Annual reports** Number of publications in 2017 Publications based on the analysis of Special Opinions Annual Reports* 2017 * Special Annual Reports and Summary Reports on EU Agencies and Joint Undertakings ** Annual Implementation Report of the EU budget, Annual Report on European Development Funds and Summary Report in 2016.
Our actions 10 Annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016 In our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016, we examined how EU funds were used in the financial year under consideration and identified areas where the risk of misuse of EU funds was greatest.
In addition, we have made a specific assessment of all relevant areas of the EU budget based on the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020 and provided information on budgetary and financial management and performance-related information.
We also looked at why there were errors and made recommendations for possible improvements.
The audit of around 1000 payments made to beneficiaries from the EU budget in 2016. Our auditors examined around 1000 payments made to beneficiaries in various areas of expenditure in the EU budget.
This means that we have analysed about 1000 different cases where EU funds were used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support non-EU beneficiaries.
With the presentation of our annual report for the financial year 2016, the discharge procedure The publication of our annual report begins at the beginning of the discharge procedure for the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the EU budget.
On 28 September we presented our annual report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT) and then to the plenary session of the European Parliament, the Ecofin Council and the national parliaments of the Member States.
Our actions 11 The EU annual accounts present a true and fair picture; the proportion of irregular expenditure continued to fall in 2016. The main conclusions on the 2016 accounts have been drawn in accordance with international rules and in all material respects present a true and fair picture of EU funding.In 2016 revenue in 2016 was not significantly affected by errors.In recent years, the level of error in payments from the EU budget has steadily improved: 2016: 3.1 %, 2015: 3.8 % and 2014: 4.4 %.
In 2016, a significant proportion of expenditure audited (as opposed to reimbursement payments) of entitlements was not largely affected by errors.In most areas, the Commission's reports on regularity are broadly consistent with our results.
However, the Commission should simplify the measurement of results, for example by reducing the number of targets and indicators.
Without these measures, the overall estimated error rate would be 1.2 percentage points higher.
However, sufficient information was available to prevent or detect a significant proportion of errors and correct them.It is not expected that the total amount of payments to which the EU has committed in future budgets will be higher than ever and will continue to increase.
Our actions 12 The annual report on the implementation of the EU budget contains for the first time a limited opinion on the regularity of EU expenditure Lazaros S. Lazarou, a member of the Court responsible for the annual accounts Unlimited audit result The error rate is less than 2 % The limited audit result The error rate exceeds 2% but only applies to certain budgetary areas The reported error rate exceeds 2%, the entire budget being historical, as the 2016 annual report differs significantly from the previous reports.
Looking at compliance on the expenditure side, for the first time we issued an opinion on a limited and unfailed audit. compared to estimated error rates in EU spending areas (2014-2016) estimated error rates 5,7 5,6 2014 2015 5.2 4,8 4,4 4.1 3,6 2,9 2,5 2,8 2,1 0,6 0,5 in the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion expenditure 0,2 Natural Competitiveness Union in terms of capacity to manage global growth and employment resources
Our actions 13 Our institutional addresses also need information on the results of EU spending this year, a limited audit opinion shows a significant improvement in EU finances.
In the future, we will reconsider how we will examine the EU budget: "We will take greater account of internal controls at the level of the European Commission and the Member States so that we can further support accountability and improve the EU's financial management."We will also pay more attention to the efficiency aspects to ensure that EU funds are used to the best possible extent to ensure the optimal use of EU citizens' resources. During the presentation of the annual report of the European Parliament on 4 October 2017 in Strasbourg, Joachim Zeller, the Member of the European Parliament and the rapporteur for 2016 discharge, stressed that Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, during the presentation of the annual report at the European Parliament's plenary meeting on 4 October 2017 in Strasbourg, points out errors or, for example, whether the Structural Funds have been used in accordance with the rules, but we should also look at what was achieved in 2016.
Our actions 14 Annual report on the European Development Funds Financial support is provided to African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and overseas countries and territories.
The EFF is financed by the Member States and managed by the European Commission outside the EU budget, as well as by the European Investment Bank (EIB) for certain aid measures.
Around one third of the total number of errors in the EFF is due to non-compliance with public procurement rules.
Other material types of errors relate, inter alia, to expenditure which has not actually been incurred or is not eligible.
Our annual report on the EDF will be published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Special annual reports The agencies and other EU bodies and European Joint Undertakings are based in different EU Member States and carry out specific tasks in areas of vital importance for EU citizens such as health, security, freedom and justice and research.
In 2017, the Court examined whether the Agency's annual accounts were reliable and whether the underlying transactions were in accordance with the principles.
When drawing up an opinion on the Agency's annual accounts, where available, we took into account the audit work carried out by audit firms.
We have also examined the communication infrastructure of Sisnet, European schools, the conditional commitments of the Single Committee on Restructuring and Restructuring and the liquidation of the Galileo Joint Undertaking.
We have been working on consolidation of results and we expect to issue one report for the agencies in 2018. and basic data EDF budget 2016 3.4 billion € Verified amounts 2.8 billion € Unexplained revenue Payments To a large extent (estimated error rate of 3.3%) and main data The Court examined 45 EU agencies and other bodies, 8 Joint Undertakings Budget for 2016 a total of 5.2 billion € Human resources 2016 A total of around 11 000 employees of 55 special annual reports were published, including two summary reports
Our activities of 15 agencies (a budget of EUR 3.4 billion, 10 364 employees) Our audit showed that the financial statements of all 41 agencies present a true and reliable picture of the situation.
The financial operations underlying the annual accounts were legal and regular in all agencies, with the exception of the European Asylum Support Office, for which we issued a limited opinion on non-compliance with public procurement rules.
The Joint Undertakings (EUR 1.8 billion budget, 633 employees) The accounts of all eight Joint Undertakings were reliable.
In all relevant respects, they presented the financial and financial situation of the Joint Undertakings and the results of their operations and cash flows for 2016.
Moreover, the transactions underlying the annual accounts in seven Joint Undertakings were in line with the rules in force, with the exception of the ECSEL Joint Undertaking, for which we gave a limited opinion as we were not able to obtain sufficient assurance as to the reliability of its internal control with regard to FP7 grants.
All special annual reports and two summary reports are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Special reports In 2017, we published 28 special reports.
These reports examine in particular whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved effectively and economically and whether EU funds have brought added value.
We have also made recommendations on improving financial savings, better working methods, prevention of waste or more cost-effective achievement of the policy objectives.
Special reports examine in particular the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EU policies and programmes. Our special reports focused on issues that reflected important issues for the EU, such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, economic growth and promoting social inclusion, migration and global development challenges, the internal market and the banking union, and ensuring the accountability and cost-effectiveness of the European Union.
Here we will discuss two of these 28 special reports: a special report on food waste, which addresses whether EU policy was appropriate to tackle this problem throughout the food supply chain and a special report on the Greek financial crisis, which looked at how the EU reacted to the financial and debt crisis in one of its Member States through economic adjustment programmes.
Our actions 16 COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND TERRITORY EMPLOYMENT • PROGRAMME SUBSTANCES • Partnership agreements • Ex-ante conditions • Financial corrections • Railway transport visit • Single European Sky • Guarantee instrument for SMEs • Youth unemployment • Drinking water Special reports: Special reports by the Court in 2017 EUROPA in the world • Honduras • Tunisia • Disaster management • Mobilising national revenues in Africa • Registration centres for migrants (hotspots) • Trafficking people • Trust Fund Bękou • Monitoring of choices for the management of natural resources Special reports: Special reports: • Food waste • Natura 2000 • Responsible authorities • Fisheries control • Young farmers • Rural development • Environmentalisation of the CAP Special Report: Aviable Customs controls Special Report: Court of Justice of the European Union for Financial Policy • Greek financial crisis
Our actions 17 Special Report: Combating food waste: The EU's opportunity to increase resource efficiency in the food supply chain is a global problem of food waste, which has become the centre of public and political debate in recent years, particularly in view of the need to feed the growing world population.
At present, it is estimated that about one third of food produced for human consumption worldwide is wasted or lost, resulting in high economic and environmental costs.
EU auditors have examined the role that the EU can play in combating food waste The Court's auditors have examined in particular the actions taken so far and the way in which the various EU policy instruments have been taken to reduce food waste.
The emphasis was placed on preventing food waste and facilitating food donation, as these two aspects are prioritised in the fight against food waste.
Our auditors consulted the Commission's policy officers, checked the files and carried out verification visits in five Member States: Italy (Lazio), the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Finland.
They visited the appropriate ministries and made on-site visits.
In addition, they consulted relevant stakeholders in the field of food production, retail trade, research and charitable organisations.
The approach so far remains fragmented and inconsistent and coordination at Commission level is insufficient.
Our report identifies a number of unused opportunities and potential improvements that would not require new legislation or additional public resources, and the auditors also recommended better alignment of existing policies and a clear policy objective to reduce food waste.
This report was submitted to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU and many national parliaments across the EU.
Both the European Parliament and the Council welcomed the report and agreed with its conclusions.
The report also found significant echoes in the media, in particular in social media.
Our actions 18 Special Report: The role of the Commission in the Greek financial crisis Greece needed support to ensure its financial stability After the 2008 financial crisis, the economic downturn and debt crisis in Europe revealed the weaknesses of the Greek economy.
Greece was no longer able to finance itself in the financial markets in April 2010 and therefore requested financial assistance from the euro area Member States and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Since then, Greece has participated in three economic adjustment programmes managed by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF, the so-called Troika and the Troika.
The third programme also included the European Stability Mechanism (EMS).
The total amount of aid of EUR 368.6 billion was subject to the political conditions laid down jointly by the Greek authorities and creditors.
These programmes aimed to stabilise Greece's economic situation by meeting the financial needs of the Greek economy, which was intended to prevent the crisis from moving to the rest of the euro area.
In return, Greece committed itself to carrying out extensive structural reforms.
The EU auditors have checked whether the Commission has properly managed economic adjustment programmes, which are part of a series of performance checks carried out by the Court in recent years, which concerned measures and reforms taken in response to the financial crisis in 2008.
Our auditors assessed how the Commission applied the first two programmes for Greece and how it developed the third programme.
They reviewed documents on EU financial assistance programmes, examined the terms of the programme and consulted Commission staff, national authorities (such as specialised ministries), Greece, economic operators and economic operators and IMF staff, the European Stability Mechanism and the OECD.
However, the programmes in Greece have only resulted in a limited improvement.
The auditors also found that the Commission had no experience in managing such a process, that the conditions of the programmes were not sufficiently prioritized, nor were they taken into account in the broader strategy for Greece and that the macroeconomic assumptions of the programmes were ambiguous.
This special report has been submitted to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and to the institutional stakeholders in Greece.
This report was the subject of extensive media reporting and received the biggest media echo from all the special reports we published in 2017.
Our activities 19 Important events of the 40th anniversary of the European Court of Auditors 12 October 2017, the hall of the Luxembourg convention centre The 40th anniversary of our institution was held in the presence of Her Majesty the Grand Duke and Grand Duke of Luxembourg and Prime Minister Xavier Bettel of Luxembourg by official ceremony.
The ceremony was opened by our President, Klaus-Heiner Lehne, followed by Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia and Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission.
Along with the ceremony, an annual conference was held, meeting the Presidents of the EU Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (ORKB) (EU Contact Committee not only) and CMR Presidents of candidate countries and potential candidate countries.
Left to right: Henri Grethen, Member of the Court; Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg; Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Her Royal Prince and Grand Duke of Luxembourg; Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament; Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission
Our activities 20 The Conference of the Court on Youth Employment in order to meet the challenges and find solutions 10 May 2017, the European Parliament, Brussels, has been organised following the publication of our special report on Youth Guarantee, in which, as in other reports, the effectiveness of EU policies in tackling youth unemployment in EU Member States has been examined.
During the Iliana Ivanova conference, rapporteur member, and reviewers with senior representatives of the EU institutions, employment services and young people discussed whether EU policy should produce results and how best to proceed in the future.
The Court's Conference on EU action in the field of energy and climate change 17 October 2017, the European Parliament, Brussels This Conference was an integral part of our work on the analysis of EU action in the field of energy and climate change, which we presented in September 2017 and which was then presented at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP23) in Bonn.
The Conference of the Court has created a platform for stakeholders and key actors in this area, both from the public and private sectors, to discuss future challenges.
It was jointly organised by the Court and the European Parliament's scientific service.
The conference was opened by Phil Wynn Owen, rapporteur and by Jerzy Buzek, President of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy of the European Parliament.
The conference was attended by representatives of Member States, EU institutions, the highest audit bodies, NGOs and experts, as well as Members of the European Parliament, scientists and our auditors.
Left: Phil Wynn Owen, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Jerzy Buzek, Member of the European Parliament; Anthony Teasdale, Director-General of the European Parliament's Scientific Service Left to right: Marianne Thyssen, Member of the Commission; Pavel Telička, Vice-President of the European Parliament; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Commission; Iliana Ivanova, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Martin Dlubajová, Member of the European Parliament
Our activities 21 Symposium of the Court on regulatory evaluation 23. In November 2017, the European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg The two-day symposium on regulatory evaluation was attended by around 100 representatives of universities, research centres, international organisations and European, national and regional institutions.
During the symposium, the comments submitted by the participants under the open invitation were presented and discussed.
The symposium was led by Danièle Lamarque, a member of the Court, and organized in cooperation with the professional scientific journal Politiques et management public.
This is crucial because the impact of our work depends to a large extent on what benefits you will benefit from our research results and recommendations.
It is therefore important that we take their concerns and proposals into account when planning the annual work programme.
The European Parliament In February 2017, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne presented the Court's work programme for 2017 to the parliamentary body coordinating the work of the European Parliament's committee (conference of committee presidents).
He invited all Parliament's permanent committees to propose possible audit tasks under the 2018 Work Programme.
Three quarters of the parliamentary committees have submitted proposals, some two thirds of which have been taken into account in our work.
Exchange of views with the Conference of Committee Chairs of the European Parliament chaired by Cecilia Wikström
Our activities 22 In April 2017, President Lehne took part in the debate at the plenary session of the European Parliament on the 2015 discharge procedure.
In September 2017, he presented the Court's annual report for the financial year 2016 to the Committee on Budgetary Control of Parliament (CONT) and in October 2017 to the Plenary Assembly.
The President of Parliament, who meet at the Conference of Presidents, invited Lehne to their meeting in November 2017 to discuss the Court's strategy and work programme.
Our members tend to present CONT our reports and other results of our work.
During the year we gave almost 60 lectures in front of this committee.
Members of the Court shall also exchange with other permanent committees and delegations.
In 2017, we presented our reports to these committees and delegations, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
In addition, our members participated in the meetings of the coordinators of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, because they expressed their particular interest in our control work.
In addition, Parliament invited us to present our special report on migrant registration centres (hotspots) at a conference on migration management.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors and Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, at a press conference following a meeting with the presidents of the European Parliament's political groups in November 2017, the Strasbourg Council During the Maltese Presidency, President Lehne and Member of the Court of Leo Brincat (Malta) met in June 2017 in Valletta (Malta) Minister for European Affairs Helena Dalli and Secretary of State for European Funds and Social Dialogue Aaron Farrugia.
In September 2017, during the Estonian Presidency, President Lehne, Member of the Court of Juhan Parts (Estonia) and Commissioner for Institutional Relations Rimantas Šadžius met in Tallinn with Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and Minister of Finance Toomas Tõnist.
During the year, the representatives of the two Council Presidency also visited the Court in Luxembourg.
In November 2017, President Lehne presented our annual report to EU finance ministers at the ECOFIN Council in Brussels.
At the working level, our main partner is the Committee on Budgets of the Council, which deals with all financial issues, including the discharge procedure.
In 2017, our auditors attended several meetings of other Council preparatory bodies to present the Court's reports, mainly in the working groups on structural actions.
On 29 March 2017, the Maltese finance minister Edward Scicluna (the law) paid a visit to the Court of Auditors.
In the photo you can also see a member of the court of Leo Brincat (left) and President Klaus-Heiner Lehne (in the middle).
During this year, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne met with numerous representatives of high-level governments in EU Member States, including Poland President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw, Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa in Lisbon, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy in Madrid, and French Minister for European Affairs Nathalie Loiseau and French Minister for Government and Public Finance Gérald Darmanin in Paris.
During his visits he was accompanied by one of the members of the Court: Janusz Wojciechowski (Poland), João Figueiredo (Portugal), Baudilio Island Muguruza (Spain) and Danièle Lamarque (France).
Meeting with Polish President Andrzej Duda (Warsaw, February 2017) Meeting with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy (Madrid, March 2017) In 2017, our members presented the Court's annual report on the financial year 2016 to national Parliaments in 14 Member States: the Czech Republic, Greece, Spain, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Finland and Sweden.
They have also submitted a number of special reports to the relevant national parliamentary committees.
Meeting with French Minister of Government and Public Finance Gérald Darmanin (Paris, December 2017)
Our activities 24 Cooperation with the highest audit authorities The Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Authorities in EU Member States In 2017, we organised and chaired the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Authorities (ORKB) of 28 EU Member States.
Discussions focused primarily on the role of the ORKB in restoring the confidence of EU citizens in national and supranational state institutions.
In addition, the Court has participated or participated in the activities of the working bodies on the following issues: the European Banking Union, the Structural Funds, the Europe 2020 strategy, financial policy control, VAT, public sector accounting rules in the EU Member States (EPSAS) and prevention and combating irregularities and fraud.
The ORKB network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries In addition, we support the ORKB of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Kosovo*, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey).
In 2017, nine ORKB examiners took part in our internship program.
We have also actively participated in several meetings and activities of this network, such as the fight against fraud and corruption and the organisation of workshops to control accounts and control compliance.
We were also involved in a parallel performance study in the field of public procurement conducted under the leadership of the Swedish ORB.
The purpose of this meeting was to adopt a work programme for 2018 and beyond. * This name does not affect positions on Kosovo's status and is in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the declaration of Kosovo's independence.
Interviews between representatives of the EU Contact Committee in the conference room of the European Court of Auditors Meeting of the EU Contact Committee, 12-13.
Our activities 25 INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2017, we continued active participation and participation in INTOSAI activities, in particular as Vice-President of the Technical Standards Committee and member of the Accounting Audit Sub-Committee, the Sub-Committee on Compliance with Legal Standards and the Economic Audit Sub-Committee.
In addition, we actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI bodies and EUROSAI bodies.
Our mandate as a member of the EUROSAI Bureau ended with the X Congress of EUROSAI in May 2017 • INTOSAI in the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities • EUROSAI in Europe European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities within the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Audit in October 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg
Our management 26 College of Members of the Court The term of office of Members of the Court lasts six years and is renewable.
Members shall carry out their activities in a completely independent manner for the benefit of the overall benefit of the EU.
They swear on the position of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
The College shall have 28 members, one from each Member State.
Individual members shall be appointed by the Council of the EU after consulting the European Parliament in accordance with the proposals of the national government.
In 2017, the Council appointed two new members: • Juhan Parts (Estonia), which began its position on 1 January 2017; • Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary), which began its position on 1 September 2017.
The Chairpersons shall elect a Chairperson from among themselves for a renewable period of three years.
The President's role is a priority issue between Pares (starting with equal options)
In addition to other duties, the President shall monitor and represent the Court outside.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany) was elected President.
The Audit Chambers and Committees Members belong to one of the five Court Audit Chambers and the Chambers adopt audit reports, opinions and other analysis-based publications.
Chambers shall be managed by Doyen elected from among the members.
Each member shall be responsible for his or her specific inspection tasks.
Members shall be assisted by their office.
In December 2017, five examination chambers were conducted by the following Doyens: Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom), Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria), Karel Pinxten (Belgium), Baudilio in São Tomé and Príncipe (Spain) and Lazaros S. Lazarou (Cyprus).
Danièle Lamarque (France) chaired the Quality Control Committee in the field of audit.
Rimantas Šadžius (Lithuania) was responsible for coordinating the interinstitutional relations of the Court.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members chaired by the Chair.
In 2017, the members of the Court of Auditors met at 21 college meetings.
Photo: College meeting on 7 September 2017
K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K K
Our governance 28 Strategy The next three years will be a very important time for the European Union to make key decisions.
We are aware that EU citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that the EU can tackle the challenges effectively.
Citizens must see that the EU works fairly, respects the rule of law, carefully uses taxpayers' money, has clear objectives and achieves the expected results.
To this end, we can contribute as an EU external controller.
Our strategy for 2018-2020: Strengthening confidence through external financial control In July 2017, we published our strategy for 2018-2020, which sets out four strategic objectives: • providing clear information to addressees; • putting greater emphasis on the aspects of EU performance; • increasing the added value of the Statement of Assurance; • focusing on our products throughout the organisation.
In the end, the EU is not about figures, but about people Thanks to external financial control, the Court can show what is working on EU spending and action and what is not, it can help EU citizens to answer the question of whether the EU institutions provide them with results, thereby contributing to increasing confidence in the EU.
In this context, the Court's audits must also take into account the concerns of European citizens, who are their main addressees at the last instance.
The 2018-2020 strategy sets out five priority areas for the Court's activities in the coming years.
Sustainable management of natural resources and combating climate change Investments for cohesion, growth and integration Migration, security and sustainable development challenges in the world A functioning internal market and a stable monetary union Financing and management of the Union while respecting accountability and cost-effectiveness
Our governance 29 During the development of our strategy, we placed great emphasis on internal and external consultations.
We discussed the strategy with our employees and addressed Members of the European Parliament, representatives of EU Member States, the European Commission, other supreme control bodies and non-institutional stakeholders such as scientists, tankers, NGOs (NROs) and private sector controllers.
The Court's 2018-2020 strategy is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Work Planning In January 2017, we decided to introduce new work planning procedures, which we first applied to our annual work programme for 2018, published in October last year.
Main changes to our work plan: • drawing up a list of audit tasks for the whole Court; • centralised procedure for the selection of audit ideas, possible audit tasks and final audit requests; • more flexible allocation of resources and allocation of resources between the different audit chambers, taking into account the workload; • extending the scope of products to control tasks from which the publication is based; • identifying high priority audit tasks to which shorter deadlines apply.
In addition, we agreed with the conference of the chairmen of the European Parliament's committee on a procedure whereby all the permanent committees of Parliament may propose to the Court a possible subject of scrutiny.
The Court's 2018 work programme is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Measurement of results In 2013-2017 we used seven key performance indicators (KPIs) to inform management about progress in achieving our goals, supporting decision-making and providing our addressees with information about our achievements.
These indicators were intended to measure the basic parameters of quality and impact of our work, paying particular attention to the view of the main recipients and the effectiveness and effectiveness of the use of resources.
A revised set of performance indicators for the period 2018-2020 will be introduced in 2018.
The quality and impact of our work We assessed the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of the assessments of the addressees and reviews carried out by experts. Another criterion of the evaluation was the follow-up to our recommendations on improving the EU's financial management.
Our management 30 Evaluations by the addressees We have asked the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgets of the Council, the main bodies audited by the Commission and the European Agencies, as well as the EU-ORKB Presidents to evaluate our reports.
As in previous years, the vast majority of respondents assessed the usefulness and impact of our reports in 2017 at an extremely high or very high level.
Expert reviews Every year independent external experts review the content and presentation of the sample of our reports in order to assess their quality.
In 2017, the auditors assessed six special reports* and the 2016 annual reports.
They assessed the quality of the various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale with a significant impact on them? (1) to an extremely high quality. (4)
The results in recent years have not changed much and the quality of our reports is considered satisfactory. * In 2017, the auditors assessed our special reports No 3/2017, No 4/2017, No 5/2017, No 10/2017, No 14/2017 and No 17/2017.
Assessment by addressees Property of reports Likely impact of reports 2 100 % very low 16 61 21 21 37 37 5 0 20% very high 40 % 60 % 80 % high average low audit reports of the Court by experts 2017 2016 2015 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.1 Quality assessment 01234
Our management 31 Monitoring recommendations During the year, we systematically checked to what extent our recommendations were implemented by the evaluation bodies.
By the end of 2017, this was the case for 92% of the recommendations made by us in 2014.
100% 80% 60% 60% 40% 20% 0% Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year in which payments were made 92% 80 % 59 % 53% 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Court in the media mirror 31% 4% 65% The Court's annual reports on the overall media presence In addition, we follow how the media inform about our work and our institution.
In 2017, 65% of Internet media references to our work and institutions concerned special reports.
Overall, the number of media reports from our special reports increased by 11% compared to 2016.
The Court's reports, which received the largest media echo in 2017, are special reports on the Greek financial crisis, the registration centres for migrants (hotspots), fisheries control, greening and Natura 2000.
Our management 32 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 The Court's special reports on the average number of online articles in the 2013 Special Report 2014 2015 2016 2017 The increase in the number of media reports on our special reports for 2017 is consistent with the trend that has been observed for several years.
While less than 1500 online articles were published in 2013, this figure increased to almost 7000 in 2017 and the average number of articles drawn up on the basis of a special report increased from an average of less than 30 in 2013 to almost 130 in 2017.
The biggest media echo has reached our special report on the Greek financial crisis, where more than 2000 online articles and contributions to social media use resources on social media In our measurement of results, we also assess the use of resources, in particular the ability to carry out audits on time, implement the work programme and provide expertise for our employees.
The audit period In 2017, an average of 14.6 months passed from the beginning of the audit task to the adoption of the special report.
This is the shortest processing period since the beginning of the period 2013-2017.
Eight reports (29%) published during the year took less than 13 months.
It took an average of 16 months to publish the reports and about two months less than in 2016.
This positive trend indicates that action to achieve the 13-month objective set out in the Financial Regulation is effective.
18 17 16 15 14 13 12 2013 2015 2015 2016 2017 Period from the start of the study to the adoption of the report
Our management 33 Publication of reports In 2017, 65 percent of our special reports were published according to the original plan.
Other reports were postponed and published in 2018.
In addition, our annual reports and all special annual reports have been published as planned.
Vocational training As recommended by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we try to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training per year.
In 2017, we crossed that target again for 6.7 days of training per controller.
Taking into account the language courses necessary for the effective work of our controllers in all EU Member States, in 2017, one of the auditors represented an average of 8.3 days of training.
For other employees, we have set the objective of providing an average of 16 hours (two days) of vocational training (without language courses).
In 2017, this target was reached on an average of 2.3 days of training.
Average day of training for the examiner for the year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Objective ≥ 5 days 6.2 7.0 6,7 2015 2016 2017 days
Our staff 34 Human Resources Allocation In 2017, we completed the staff reduction by 5 %, which was designed for a period of five years (2013-2017), in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement of December 2013 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
At the end of 2017, 853 temporary officials and temporary staff worked at the Court. 548 of them worked in control chambers, including 118 members' offices.
Recruitment The Court's staff has a broad academic and professional context.
Our recruitment policy is in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promotes equal opportunities at all levels.
The staff shall include both officials and temporary staff.
General selection procedures are usually organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
In 2017, the Court employed 72 persons: 29 officials, 13 temporary staff, 24 contract staff (of which seven left the Court by the end of the year) and six seconded national experts.
In addition, we have provided 71 graduates with traineeships for a period of between three and five months.
Allocation of human resources of the Court 137 138 123 124 49 43 Control services 2017 Translation of the Service Administration of the President Total: 853 553 548
Our employees 35 Age profile The age profile of staff actively employed on 31 December 2017 indicates that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
31 of the 68 directors and heads of the Court (46%) are 55 years old or older.
Therefore, in the next five to ten years, when these workers retire, there will be a renewal in higher management positions.
Balance between men and women The Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities which refers to all stages of the career of its employees.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced participation of men and women among our employees; 43% of our auditors and boards are women.
In recent years, we have managed to increase the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers from 7% in 2015 to almost 20% in 2017.
We continue to advocate a balance between men and women at all levels of governance.
In addition, our policy of equal opportunities for the years 2018-2020 deals with age and disability issues.
For more information on citizenship and gender of management, see the table below.
Age profile 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 0,3% 2,3% 4,8% 0.4% 5% 7.6% 17,0% 10% 15% 20% 25% 17,1% 10,8% 21,0% 18,7% Gender-to-female ratio 34 % 66 % Assistants and administrators Managing 57% 43% 63% 37% 0 % 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
In 2017, we developed our training offer, including increasing the number of courses in the field of e-learning and integrated learning.
We continued our successful series of presentations organised by internal or external experts on changes in audit and other issues related to the work of our auditors.
We have also organised several trainings and events, during which experts from other supreme audit bodies presented knowledge and best practices in the field of economic control and accounting audit.
A good example is the annual vocational training day in November 2017, organized in cooperation with the University of Luxembourg, in which more than 300 employees participated.
We work closely with the European Commission, the European Institute of Public Administration (EIPA) and the European School of Administration (EUA) to offer our employees a wide range of training courses, such as specialized examination courses and personal skills development courses and language courses related to work.
In addition, we have helped our employees to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and professional qualifications in areas related to the role and work of the Court.
In particular, we continued to work with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France), where WAudit of public organisations and policies WALL and Master Management of public organisations WALL are offered.
We also signed a cooperation agreement with the European Institute of Higher Education in Florence, Italy.
In 2017, we established a partnership with the University of Pisa (Italy) and the Accounting Association (ACCA) to organise a summer course in financial control and public responsibility.
Last year we highlighted the best contribution in the form of a 2016 award for scientific work in the field of public sector audit, awarded by the Court.
37 We have continued our Performance Recognition Awards (Performance Recognition Awards), which enables employees who do not take management positions to participate in specialist external trainings.
The translation by the Directorate for Translation, Language Services and Publications of the Court has translated and improved more than 211 000 pages.
We continued our efforts to improve translations and reduce related costs.
For example, all our translation teams are currently using a common working platform to increase productivity.
We are trying to increasingly involve our translators in our basic activities and create greater synergies with our auditors.
In particular, in 2017, translators increasingly supported auditors in drawing up special reports and annual reports.
In addition, they provided linguistic support to our inspectors during 38 inspection visits.
Information Technology Our IT Directorate plays a key role in our control processes by optimising the flow of information through modern and secure technologies.
We have made further progress in document management and have fully digitised production, reception and publication processes.
We have introduced a simplified tool to facilitate remote access to mobile devices.
In addition, we have updated the system (Windows 10 and SharePoint 2013 installation).
In order to make even better use of interinstitutional synergies, we have introduced new systems for managing audits, missions and training which are currently being used by other EU institutions.
Support for the audit activity of 38 buildings The Court currently has three buildings (including K1 real estate, K2 real estate and K3 real estate) and leases office space for its data recovery centre in Luxembourg.
K1 K1 building, opened in 1988, has office rooms for up to 310 staff and conference rooms.
There are parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses, library and main archives in the underfloor, while the entire top floor is used for technical installations.
Building K1 was modernised in 2008 in order to adapt it to national health, safety and environmental requirements.
As far as possible, the technology in building K1 has been adapted to achieve compatibility with buildings K2 and K3.
In this way, three buildings form one integrated technical unit.
K2 K2 building was opened in 2003.
There are parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses and a fitness centre.
The entire top floor is used for technical installations.
Other missiles are used in offices for up to 241 employees, where there are conference rooms, conference room with translation booths, video conference room, café and base kitchen room.
The Court has commissioned a study to assess the feasibility of establishing areas of work related to the operation and upgrading of technical installations K2.
The study shows that the structure of work areas could be improved and that certain technical installations should be modernised.
A detailed analysis of this project will be carried out in 2018 and work will start in 2019.
As the Council and the European Parliament approved in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds from the construction project K3 completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation.
Security Control Centre 2018 27 m2 2 K1 1988 26 550 m2 310 K3 K2 2003 21 500 m2 241 year of construction of gross area (m2) jobs 2012 34 500 m2 503
Support for control activities 39 K3 Building K3 was opened in 2012.
There are parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses, unloading zones, waste storage facilities, printers, kitchens and archives.
On the ground floor there is a cafeteria, a cafeteria and a training room.
In addition, this building includes offices for 503 staff, conference rooms and IT room.
On the sixth floor there are reception rooms, kitchen and technical equipment.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) building K3 has been very well rated with the help of extremely well.
The project for safety at work In 2017, the project was continued to improve the security of the Court and its staff as planned.
The new security control centre, the external accreditation centre and the access control centre for employees and visitors will be launched in 2018.
Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, we consider it our duty to respect the principle of sound environmental management in all activities and we are constantly trying to reduce the Court's environmental impact.
In 2017, we received the Eco Management and Audit Scheme ( EMAS) certificate.
Currently, we successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully comply with the certification requirements set out in ISO 14001:2015.
Our goal is to systematically reduce CO2 emissions.
In 2017, in the third year in a row, we analysed greenhouse gas emissions (i.e. our CO2 footprint) caused by our actions.
The results of this study are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Liability 40 of the Court Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union and its budget falls within the scope of administrative expenditure.
In 2017, the Court's budget was around 141 million euro.
This represents less than 0,1% of the total EU expenditure or around 1.5% of the total EU administrative expenditure.
Expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the agricultural and rural development policy area
Appropriations 2006 _BAR_ Appropriations 2006 _BAR_ Appropriations 2006 _BAR_ Outturn 2004 _BAR_ p.m. _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_
Court's liability 41 Budget 2018 An increase of 3.4% has been recorded in the 2018 budget since 2017.
h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
The Court's responsibility 42 Risk management During the year, in accordance with the requirements of the Financial Regulation, we have checked the risk assessments prepared for each Directorate.
The results of these checks shall be taken into account in the annual declaration by the authorising officer by delegation contained in the annual activity report and shall be used for the risk assessment for the following year.
If necessary, we have prepared action plans for ex ante and ex post controls.
In September 2017, following these reviews, we strengthened internal controls and financial procedures concerning travel costs and the management of service vehicles.
Internal audit and external audit of the internal audit body shall be accompanied by an evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation and evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results and the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation.
The Commission shall deliver opinions on the quality of internal management and control systems and shall report to the Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and an external expert.
The Committee shall regularly monitor progress in the implementation of the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Unit and ensure its independence.
In 2017, the services examined the implementation of the Court's 2013-2017 strategy, the operational structure of the Directorate-General for Services and the management of licences and software products.
The Commission has also examined the implementation of risk management policies by the Court and monitored the implementation of its recommendations to ensure that action plans are being shaped.
The internal auditor considers that the existing procedures for management, risk management and internal control generally provide sufficient assurance that the Court's objectives will be achieved in 2017.
Every year we report to Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
External audit Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same principles of transparency and accountability that apply to the authorities that it has carried out.
The auditor's report on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2016 was published on 31 October 2017.
The discharge, like the other EU institutions, is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2017, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2015.
This means that our annual accounts were finally approved for 2015.
As every year, we have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our responsibility for control and management, we have taken appropriate action and informed the European Parliament of our follow-up.
The Court's report No 43 Opinions of the independent auditor for the financial year 2016 The Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2016: as a result of our assessment, the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the assets and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2016 and its results, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending that date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1), hereinafter referred to as "the Financial Regulation' (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1), and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on rules for the application of the Financial Regulation.
Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation 44 I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that, as authorising officer by delegation, • • - that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and with sufficient assurance that the appropriations for the actions described in this report have been used for the purposes set out and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, the control procedures laid down provide the necessary assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the appropriate handling of allegations of fraud or suspected fraud, costs and benefits of controls.
This security shall be based on an assessment of the signed and available information, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers seconded, internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's opinions on the previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 8 March 2018.
In view of the fact that in the period 2015 to 2015, within the framework of action at EU level................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Publications payable: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu). © European Union, 2018 playback with source is allowed.
DE 2018 Activity Report
The European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditors 02 A lot of information about the European Union is available on the Europa website (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2019 Print ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-1854-2 HTML ISBN 978-92-847-1818-4 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/092674 doi:10.2865/049466 doi:10.2865/607255 QJ-AA-19-001-DE-C QJ-AA19-001-DE-N QJ-AA19-001-DE-Q
1 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors on 1 May 2018
Content Preface of the President 5 2018 at a glance 6 Our actions 7 Strategy 7 At the centre of attention around our products 8 Audits 10 Work plan 12 On-site checks 13 Publications 17 Important events 37 Relations with institutional addressees 41 Cooperation with the highest audit authorities (ORKB) 44 Our management 46 College of Members of the Court 46 Audit and Committees 49 Measurement of achievements 50 Our staff 58 Staff allocation 58 Employment 58 Age profile 59 Balanced sexual relations 60 2
Support for control activities 62 Vocational training 62 Translation 63 Information, work environment and innovation 64 Building 65 Improving Court's security 67 Environmental management 67 Court's responsibility 68 Financial information 68 Internal and external control 70 Declaration by authorising officer by delegation 73 Annex in 2018 Special publications, annual reports, opinions and products based on analysis 74 3
The European Court of Auditors 4 Court of Auditors The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the external auditor of the European Union.
It was established in 1977 and is one of the seven EU institutions.
The Court is based in Luxembourg and employs around 900 employees from all EU countries, which consist of auditors and staff in horizontal and administrative services.
The College of the Court shall be composed of one member from each EU Member State.
The Court's tasks are to verify that the EU ensures correct accounting, that its financial rules are correctly applied, that its policies and programmes ensure that its objectives are achieved and that financial resources are used as best as possible.
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the EU's financial management and promoting accountability and transparency.
The Court makes its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national governments and national parliaments and the general public.
Preface of the President 5 Dear Reader, Dear Reader!
We have strengthened our efforts to assess the results of EU action, to present our statements in a clear form to the Court's addressees and to increase the value of our work for our stakeholders.
In this activity report we present a review of our work in 2018, in which we have published the highest number of special reports, analyses and opinions so far.
You will also find information about our employees, management and finance.
Our reports ensure an impartial evaluation of the Union's policies and programmes and the quality of EU financial management both within and outside the European Union.
We are checking that EU expenditure is in line with the rules and that EU policies and programmes ensure optimal use of resources.
We will be happy to work with the newly elected European Parliament and the new European Commission to further improve EU financial management and ensure that the EU achieves its results.
In this report, we express our determination to continue to adapt the organisation of the Court to "prepare us for the future" and continue to prepare developments in the field of public sector control.
In 2018 44 record number of publications submitted by EU legislators 43 European Parliament 44 Global Audit Leadership Forum organised In approximately 45 international activities, 834 employees from all Member States 50: 50 LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGE EXPENDITURE Annual report from the EU budget: Unlimited opinion on EU accounting in opinions: 10, mainly on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 Impact of our work: Limited opinion on payments 6 in publications: 35 Special reports 9 Based on an analysis of publications record number Most of our recommendations High reporting in the media implemented: +17 000 Article 4 New Members of the Court 5 The renewal of the term of office by members are of the opinion that our work is useful and effective in social media 11 million times displayed
Our 2018 strategy is the first year of our current strategy, which covers the period up to and including 2020.
Our strategic objectives for this three-year period are: to increase the added value of the statement of assurance in the context of the current EU financial management, to put greater emphasis on the aspects of the effectiveness of the EU action, to provide clear statements to our addressees.
We have also agreed to an even better focus of our organisation on our products.
As regards the implementation of our strategy, we have agreed on an action plan for these objectives to remain a leader in the development of the public sector.
All these measures were in progress at the end of 2018.
At the same time, we have already commissioned an independent peer review procedure to implement our strategy. Technical evaluation is due to be completed at the end of 2019 and further information in the section on the Court's responsibility.
Progress towards achieving our strategic objectives 7
We focus on communication activities around our products By giving our addressees clear statements on communication if we want to achieve our strategic objective of providing clear statements to our addressees, which consists of the political bodies of the EU and the Member States responsible for the control and management of Union policies and programmes, other supreme control bodies, companies and industrial organisations, scientists, and in particular the general public, of our key stakeholders.
In 2018 we saw how much media interest in our work is important to us.
In particular, our special reports have met with great media interest and have been discussed more and more frequently in national and EU media channels. For more information, see the section on media presence.
In 2018, we published 12 control plans (formerly referred to as "basic documents') which are intended to provide information to those who are interested in specific policy areas or programmes for which controls are carried out.
The information provided therein shall be based on preparatory work prior to the commencement of the ongoing examination task.
The audit forecast contributed to the stable and sustainable results of the Court's publication throughout the year: in 2018 it was the first year in which there was not a single month without the publication of the European Court of Auditors.
In 2019 we will continue to publish such communication products. 8
Journal While our findings and recommendations on improving the EU's financial management are set out in our audit reports, in the Court's Journal we pay particular attention to our working methods and employees who draw up reports on different areas.
Now every number is devoted to a different topic of parenthood.
In 2018, the Court's report addressed a number of issues such as EU development assistance, Parliament's funding and control, and the EU's financial and economic governance, as well as our specific reports, the work programme, international cooperation and action for the future to "arm the Court for the future."
Overview of our installation 9 Downloads 2018 2017 9 314 16 357
Audits Greater focus on results We carry out various types of controls in different areas of the EU budget: on Performance Audits In this context, account is taken of the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EU policies and programmes. These controls on optimal use of funds focus on specific management or budgetary issues.
When selecting and organising these audit tasks, the Court shall take into account the risks related to cost-effectiveness or compliance, the level of revenue or expenditure and the political and public interest; accounting audits and compliance audits in this respect shall take into account the reliability of the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, in particular in relation to the statement of financial reliability; together with the assessment that systems in certain budgetary areas comply with the rules.
Our random sampling methods guarantee the same probability of control for each euro issued.
Our audits focus on issues that reflect important EU issues such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, economic growth and social inclusion, migration and global development challenges, the internal market and the banking union, and ensuring the accountability and cost-effectiveness of the European Union.
Based on the evidence gathered during our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the achievement of EU policy objectives and the state of budgetary and financial management of the Union.
Our controls are in line with the international rules of public sector control.
The examination work consists of the following stages: 10
PLANNING Determination of the purpose and feasibility of the proposed study.
CONTROL COOPERATION BEFORE FORM Multidisciplinary teams collect evidence of on-the-spot checks at the Commission's headquarters and in the Member States and beneficiary countries.
CONTENTS 03 04 05 06 11 01 02 A clear and orderly presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
KLIMAT Confirmation by a body investigating facts and findings.
Adoption of the report by the Audit Chamber or the entire College of the Court.
PUBLICITY Publication of a special report in 23 official languages together with the response of the audited entity.
Planning of work Audit priorities are based on key EU issues Our work programme is adopted annually by the members of the Court.
In January 2018, President Lehne presented the 2018 work programme of the Conference of Committee Chairs of the European Parliament and asked all Parliament committees to propose potential topics for monitoring the 2019 work programme in the framework of annual stakeholder consultations.
12 In October 2018, we published the first work programme developed in line with the new strategy. In this 2019 work programme, we presented our audit priorities and 36 analytical reports and products to be published this year.
These tasks included, at least in part, 29 of the 69 requests submitted by Parliament (42%) (2017: 32%).
Our audits will continue to focus on key issues such as sustainable use of natural resources, economic growth and social inclusion, migration, security and global development, the single market and the accountability and cost-effectiveness of the EU in order to determine whether the EU will achieve what it has promised.
On-the-spot checks: 3 761 days of examination work: in the EU and beyond, most of our examination work takes place at the Court premises in Luxembourg.
At the same time, our auditors also make numerous visits to the European Commission, including other EU institutions, agencies and bodies and EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States and international organisations for which EU funds are being allocated.
In addition, we carry out on-the-spot checks within and outside the European Union with beneficiaries of EU funds.
Thanks to these checks, we can understand the audit trail and obtain direct proof of control from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes and the collection or payment of EU funds, as well as from the relevant beneficiaries13.
The frequency and intensity of our control activities in individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the type of controls we have carried out.
In 2018, our auditors spent 3,761 days (2017: 3,670 days) on on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU.
In the EU, our on-the-spot checks are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities in the Member States visited.
In addition, our auditors spent 2 723 days (2017: 2 300 days) in the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as in decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations or OECD, as well as audit firms.
We are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies, such as secure data exchange and documents, in order to obtain and approve exam evidence. 14.
15 Italy Poland France Spain Greece Portugal Netherlands Czech Republic Bulgaria Slovenia United Kingdom Lithuania Finland Denmark Estonia Austria Hungary Cyprus 40 Belgium 38 Ireland 37 Slovakia 34 Latvia 22 Croatia 12 Malta 10 Luxembourg 3 Saint Lucia 1 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1 Albania 3 Dominica 3 Switzerland 6 Canada 10 Norway 11 Algeria 14 Laos 19 Tunisia 19 Kenya 20 Ethiopia 21 Niger 21 Sierra Leone 23 Guinea 25 Ukraine 25 Djibouti 26 Japan 26 United States 26 Isr ael 27 Mozambique 28 Barbados 30 Haiti 33 Turkey 33 231 185 176 147 136 122 101 94 87 85 83 70 64 56 355 335 335 292 third countries (489 test days) 6 480 test days of EU institutions and international organisations (2 723 test days) including Brussels and Luxembourg (1 637 test days) EU Member States 0 50 100 150 250 250 250 300 400 Note: derogations from total expenditure are associated with rounding up.
Combating fraud from the EU budget Nine alleged frauds In the fight against fraud from the EU budget, we work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
These matters will then be monitored by OLAF, which shall decide on a possible investigation and, if necessary, cooperate with the authorities of the Member States.
Although our controls are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we sometimes encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraud.
In 2018, we handed over nine such cases to OLAF (2017: 13 cases) where fraud was suspected.
Further information on the nature of the suspected fraud provided to OLAF and the related recovery as recommended by OLAF can be found in our annual reports on the EU general budget 16.
Publications New record: the highest number of publications in 2018 Our audit reports, analyses and opinions are an important part of the EU's liability chain.
They assist the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union in monitoring and verifying that the EU achieves its political objectives and the bodies responsible for managing EU finances - in particular in the framework of the annual discharge procedure.
This is primarily about the European Commission, but also about other EU institutions and bodies.
National, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role in shared management areas where most EU budget resources are spent, including agriculture and cohesion.
Number of special reports and publications based on analysis (2015-2018) 17 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2015 2016 2017 22 38 30 44 year Number of publications
With regard to our publications: Special and annual reports on Special Reports presenting the results of selected audits on specific policy areas or expenditure or budgetary or management issues; annual reports containing mainly the results of accounting audits and checks on compliance with the rules relating to the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund, as well as aspects of budgetary management and results; special annual reports published separately on EU agencies, decentralised bodies and joint undertakings.
Opinions and publications based on an analysis of opinions on new or amended legal acts having a significant impact on financial management which are mandatory under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) or are drawn up at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative; thematic documents are descriptive and analytical documents relating to policies or management which focus on specific issues; Landscape analyses are similar to thematic documents but focus on complex, wide-ranging policy areas or management issues, often from a cross-cutting perspective; rapid analyses (Rapid Case Reviews) which compile facts relating to very clearly defined specific themes or problems; where necessary they include an assessment enabling a better understanding of these facts.
Finally, we present basic information on future or ongoing audit tasks in the form of examination forecasts in the chapter on the communication activity of our products.
All of the Court's publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu) and listed at the end of this report 18.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Special reports We evaluate the results of EU action in our special reports In line with our strategy for 2018-2020, we are increasingly focusing on assessing the results of EU action to ensure the optimal use of EU citizens' funds.
In 2018, we published 35 special reports (2017: 28 special reports) on the various areas of EU spending in which we discussed the challenges facing the EU, such as air pollution, the high-speed rail network, the refugee instrument in Turkey, banking supervision and financing of NGOs (NRO).
In these special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved effectively and economically and whether EU funds have brought added value, i.e. whether more has been achieved than just through national action.
In addition, we make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, prevention of waste or more cost-effective achievement of the policy objectives.
Here we will discuss two special reports in 2018: a special report on high-speed railways in the EU and a special report on the instrument for refugees in Turkey.
In accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, we are trying to prepare our special reports within 13 months 20.
Competitiveness for growth and employment 21 Special reports: • JASPERS • Workers' mobility • Project sustainability • Public-private partnerships • Broadband • Use of funds in the area of cohesion expenditure • Fast rail transport • Project effectiveness • Erasmus+ • Simplification under Horizon 2020 • Driving licences and passengers Special reports of the Court in 2018 Natural stocks: • Renewable Payment Scheme • Simplified funding options • Air quality • Capture and storage of carbon dioxide • Flood prevention • Animal protection • Desert education in Europe Special reports: • EU assistance to Myanmar/Birma • Pre-accession assistance to Turkey • EU assistance to the Sahel region • African peace and security architecture • The instrument for refugees in Turkey • The Instrument for Refugees • The Erasmus Fund for Africa • Climate Action • Climate action • Climate action for Europe • Climate action • Climate action for growth and growth • Climate action for Europe • Climate action for Europe
Special report on the European high-speed rail network: not reality, but an ineffective part of high-speed rail brings many benefits to passengers.
It is a convenient, safe, flexible and ecological means of transport.
By improving the links between EU regions, they become more competitive and contribute to European integration by bringing people closer together.
In this way, we have analysed various connections, travel times and prices for business and private travellers.
We have also examined whether co-financed investments on high-speed lines were cost-effective, effective, well-thought-out and planned.
The Court found that the European high-speed rail network is only an inefficient part of the lines of the Member States, which are not sufficiently linked.
There is no realistic long-term plan to connect different parts of the existing EU network; fast lines that cross national borders are not Member States' priorities and the European Commission does not have the power to force Member States to do so.
In such circumstances, EU co-financing for high-speed railways brings little added value.
However, there is also good news: the number of high-speed passengers in Europe is increasing steadily and in 1990 it increased from around 15 billion people to more than 124 billion in 2016.
Both institutions welcomed the report and agreed with our proposals.
We also presented it to numerous national authorities and ORKB, researchers, industry and media stakeholders.
Across the EU, the media, in particular EU-oriented media and financial resources, have fully addressed this report, particularly in Spain and Germany.
Die Zeit: Rail route: Expansion of high-speed rail lines in the EU too expensive and too free IT La Repubblica: Alta velocità nell'Ue, la Corte dei Contini europea boccia la rete UK More information: Financial Times: Block criticised over high-speed rail strategy ES You know El cinco días: Los auditores de la EU critican la incoherencia de los trazados del AVE
Special Report "Instrument for refugees in Turkey": although helpful, the optimal use of funds can only be achieved through improvements, Turkey has adopted almost 4 million people who do not have another country in the world.
About 3.5 million of these refugees are Syrians, most of whom live outside refugee camps.
Support under the Refugee Facility in Turkey, granted by the EU and its Member States for a total amount of EUR 6 billion, includes humanitarian and non-humanitarian measures for refugees and host communities.
Under the political agreement, Turkey was obliged to stop irregular migration from Turkey to the EU.
Humanitarian projects have made it possible to meet the basic needs of refugees, but in some cases the expected optimal use of funds and the objective of the instrument of effective coordination of this support has not been achieved.
The humanitarian projects audited provided assistance to refugees.
For example, the emergency social security network helped 1.3 million refugees by cash aid.
However, in the case of half of projects, the expected impacts are a lasting positive effect which can be maintained without further financial support and nine out of ten projects had to be extended.
Early implementation of projects managed by NGOs was mainly hampered by difficult working conditions.
This was the result of the Turkish authorities refusing to grant access to the data of the eligible beneficiaries to two cash aid projects in our sample, amounting to a total of EUR 1.1 billion.
We presented our report at a joint meeting attended by the Committee on Development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and then the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
It was also presented to the Enlargement Group and the EU Council candidate countries and the press.
In particular, in Germany, this report has received a great deal of media interest, but also in Denmark, Austria, the Benelux countries and the Mediterranean countries and in the EU-oriented media.
Mirror: Court of Auditors criticised shortcomings in EU aid to FR refugees in EurActiv: La Cour des comptes lutôt satisfaite de ljudi aux réfugiés en Turquie ES in Euronews: Turquía debe rendir cuentas por la gestión de los refugiados UK in EU Observer: EU unable to fully trace €1 bn spent on refugees in Turkey
Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2017 Saved annual accounts, unlimited opinion on revenue control, limited opinion on expenditure control Each year we analyse revenue and expenditure from the EU budget and verify that the annual accounts are reliable and that the revenue and expenditure transactions comply with the financial rules of the EU and the Member States.
In addition, we assess all relevant areas of the EU budget in a specific way based on the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2014-2020 and provide information on budgetary and financial management and results-related information.
We also analyse the reasons for errors, make recommendations for possible improvements and assess whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been implemented.
As part of our last annual report on the EU budget for the financial year 2017, our auditors examined a sample of around 700 payments worth a total of EUR 100 billion for beneficiaries in various spending areas in the EU budget.
This means that we have analysed about 700 different cases where EU funds have been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support non-EU beneficiaries.
26 Basic data EU expenditure 2017 EUR 137.4 billion Verified amount of EUR 100.2 billion (703 payment transactions) Accounting According to actual facts flawless income Legally confirmed and correctly intact flawless (not disappointed) Audit opinion
The downward trend regarding the estimated error rate is in line with this extensive work, which forms the basis for our statement of assurance, which we must present to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with our mandate set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
The Court delivered an opinion on the reliability of EU accounts and revenue, as in previous years.
In addition, in the second year in a row, we were able to present a limited (and not disappointed) opinion on EU spending.
A significant proportion of the expenditure audited in 2017 did not show a significant error rate.
In addition, the estimated error rate in payments in 2017 was 2.4% after 3,1 % in 2016 and 3.8 % in 2015.
Activation of the discharge procedure by Parliament The publication of our annual report takes place at the beginning of the discharge procedure by the European Parliament, under which the EU legislative and budgetary authority, on a recommendation from the Council, decides whether the management of the EU budget by the Commission and other bodies is satisfactory.
On 4 October, we presented our annual report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control at the same time as its publication and then to the plenary session of the European Parliament and of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council and of the national parliaments and bodies of 14 Member States.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors and Mr Lazarou, Member of the Court, during the presentation of our annual report at the European Parliament plenary session in Strasbourg in November 2018 28
With regard to cohesion expenditure, we have assessed the control and reliability framework for 2014-2020 and the reliability of the information submitted by the Commission to demonstrate regularity.
This was the first step towards the possible development of a statement of assurance as a test-based test.
With the revised approach and the transition to a test-based audit, we intend to take more account of the different internal controls in the European Commission and in the authorities of the Member States responsible for managing EU expenditure.
In this context, it is more clear where shortcomings persist both within the European Commission and in the Member States, which allows us to increase accountability and further improve the EU's financial management.
This approach shall apply only if the relevant conditions laid down in the international audit rules are met. 29
Annual report on the European Development Funds Uncertain audit report on payments Under the European Development Fund (EDF), the European Union is providing support for development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific States and with overseas countries and territories.
The EFF shall be financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank.
Basic data on our audit opinions on the EDF are presented below.
Special annual reports Agencies and other bodies Unlimited audit opinion for all EU agencies, with the exception of one EU agency, is based across Europe and employs around 11 000 employees.
The total budget of all agencies for 2017 amounted to EUR 3.5 billion, with the exception of the Single Committee on Restructuring and orderly decommissioning, representing around 2.7% of the total EU budget.
The budget of the SRB in 2017 financed by contributions from credit institutions amounted to EUR 6.6 billion.
European Medicines Agency (EMA) in London, which is moving to Amsterdam New approach: one report on all 41 EU agencies In 2018, we decided to present the results of our financial control in EU agencies in a more user-friendly format.
While we continued to provide individual statements of assurance for each agency, we published one annual report on all agencies, including a summary document entitled "Information on the review of EU agencies."
As every year, we publish our annual reports on the European Schools and conditional commitments of the SRB, the Commission and the Council 31.
Agencies' seats in the Member States 32 * Following the UK decision to leave the EU, the Council decided to transfer EMA and EBA to Amsterdam and Paris in 2019.
The Clean Sky Joint Undertaking and Clean Sky Joint Undertaking are EU public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is a member of the public sector joint venture and represents the EU.
Private members include various industrial and research partners.
One of the main objectives of the Joint Undertaking is to attract contributions from private sector members and research, which is their added value.
33 Main conclusions Overall, our evaluation of the Agency for the year ending 31 December 2017 confirmed the positive results of previous years.
We have issued unreserved opinions on the reliability of the accounts for all the agencies; on incomplete opinions on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts of all the agencies; on incomplete opinions on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying all the agencies, with the exception of incomplete opinions on the European Asylum Support Office, which identified a number of problems.
The main requests for confirmation and confirmation of the accounts of all EU Joint Undertakings for the financial year 2017. on the Seven Joint Undertakings received full audit opinions on their income and payment transactions; the Joint Undertaking "Electronic components and systems of leading Europe" received a limited opinion as auditors detected problems which in some cases were contrary to effective internal control.
Opinions also contribute to improving the EU's financial management by publishing opinions on the Commission's proposals for new or revised legislation.
Where those acts have a significant financial impact, the Court's opinions shall be required in accordance with EU law.
They are primarily used by the legislative body of the European Parliament and of the Council in their work.
Opinions may also be initiated at the request of other institutions or on the Court's own initiative.
In 2018, we published ten opinions, which have so far been the highest in the various areas of governance in the EU.
On the one hand, they concerned mainly the Commission's legislative proposals for the new multiannual financial framework, such as the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP), the effectiveness of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and its cooperation with the future European Public Prosecutor's Office (ESMA) and, on the other hand, the link between EU funding and respect for the rule of law and the protection of persons with disabilities.
The opinion on CAP reform calls for a greener and more coherent CAP that stresses accountability When the European Commission published its legislative proposal for a new CAP after 2020, it stressed that environmental and climate objectives would be given priority.
However, in our opinion on CAP reform, we have noted that many of the proposed policy options differ slightly from the current CAP system.
In particular, the majority of the budget will continue to be direct payments to farmers on the basis of the number of hectares own or used.
We have also noted that this instrument is not the most cost-effective way of supporting adequate income and therefore does not take into account many environmental aspects.
In addition, the Commission's assessment of the CAP's contribution to the EU's climate change objectives seemed unrealistic and the Court therefore recommends greener and more coherent plans for the next CAP, which aim to put greater emphasis on accountability. 34
In accordance with the procedure that we apply in our reports, this opinion has been presented to the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council, environmental and agricultural stakeholders and the press 35.
Analysis-based publications: Landscape analysis, Rapid Case Reviews A comprehensive analytical review of publicly available information and the Court's own work Landscape Analysis In 2018, we prepared two analyses of Landscape.
In the first instance, the Court examined the application of Union law in practice and concluded that the Commission's supervisory action on the application of Union law by the Member States should be strengthened.
In the second analysis of Landscape, we dealt with mobility and transport and recognised them as the basis for European integration.
However, we have been concerned about delays in investment, as reducing investment in transport infrastructure slows down the modernisation of the EU transport network.
Topics A total of six thematic documents were published in 2018: five Commission proposals on the future multiannual financial framework and one on the integration of migrants in the EU.
The Court's observations on the multiannual financial framework focused in particular on the proposed procedure for setting priorities for EU spending, flexibility of the EU budget, targeting actions and simplifying governance, as well as the principles of accountability and control.
We welcomed the Commission's efforts to modernise the EU budget for the period after 2020, but at the same time showed some potential risks, identified a number of shortcomings and proposed concrete improvements.
We stressed the need for effective parliamentary scrutiny of liability and that the Court should in principle be designated as an external auditor for all bodies set up by the EU.
Rapid Case Reviews The only rapid analysis we presented in 2018 on cohesion has shown that VAT is wrong and is not always the optimal use of EU funds.
We felt that the return of VAT to public authorities should no longer be possible for expenditure co-financed by the EU after 2020.36
Conference on Financial Instruments In January 2018, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania, we organised a high-level joint conference on EU financial instruments in Vilnius.
This event enabled high-level experts from EU institutions and Lithuanian institutions, experts and other public and private stakeholders to exchange views and ideas.
Symposium on public funding of parliaments In March 2018, the Court organised a two-day international symposium on public financing of European Parliaments to discuss their autonomy and analysis of EU Member States' budgetary systems.
The Leadership Global Audit Forum In April 2018, we hosted the fifth Global Audit Leadership Forum meeting, where presidents and representatives of about twenty of the highest control bodies from around the world met.
It discusses in particular the practices and limitations of performance control in the political context and the challenges and opportunities for the transmission of control reports in the digital age37.
38 The fifth meeting of the Global Audit Forum of the Leadership Forum in April 2018, during which the presidents of around twenty of the highest audit bodies from all over the world met at the European Court of Auditors European Open Day of the EU In May 2018, we took part in European Day events in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg.
At information stands, visitors could obtain information from our controllers about our role and work and firsthand learn how the research is carried out.
We will continue to organise open days at the European Court of Auditors and participate in public events to make contact with citizens.
Symposium on Good Public Administration In September 2018, we took part in a symposium on sustainable UN development and governance, entitled "Good Public Administration and Benefits for Citizens on Role of Parliamentary Control Bodies," organised by the Austrian Court of Auditors, the Secretariat of INTOSAI and the Austrian Prosecutor.
The conference on the application of Union law In September 2018, we organised a conference on the application of Union law, during which, and subsequently as part of our analysis of Landscape on the application of Union law in practice, we discussed the need for accountability, transparency and verification.
This event took place at the Committee of the Regions building in Brussels.
Conference on e-commerce and related taxation In October 2018, we organised a conference on e-commerce and tax challenges in the digital age.
Ombudsmen and panel participants discussed the risks of the current VAT model in e-commerce and proposed alternative tax models to use modern technologies such as Blockchain.
Conference of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) In November 2018, we took part in the eighth annual conference of EIOPA in Frankfurt.
Over 400 people from the financial services, science, consumer organisations, media, international organisations, EU institutions and national authorities met during the conference.
The Court presented its audit work on supervision and financial stability in the European insurance sector on the specific report on EIOPA in 2018. 39
COP24 In December 2018, we took part in the UN Climate Change Conference (COP24) in Katowice.
We have presented our audit work on air quality and its impact on climate change and vice versa, and we have discussed the challenges of desertification and land degradation in the European Union as part of the special reports published by us in 2018.
Janusz Wojciechowski, member of the Court, during the presentation of our special report on air quality in December 2018 in Katowice, the School of Project Day Throughout the year, the Court's staff participated on the day of the school project organised by the EU institutions.
17 of our employees attended secondary schools in seven Member States and educated students about the EU, the role of our institution and the opportunities to study in the EU and work with EU institutions 40.
Relations with institutional addressees The impact of our work depends on the benefits of our institutional addressees We work closely with the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments, because the impact of our work depends to a large extent on the benefits these institutions will reap from our research results and recommendations.
The European Parliament The number of reports discussed in parliamentary committees is a record Members of the Court and teams of auditors are regularly invited to submit to the Committee on Budgetary Control and to other committees of the European Parliament and other bodies their findings and recommendations.
In 2018, we presented to Parliament 33 special reports, four opinions and six studies-based publications.
In total, we took part in 74 meetings with the Committee on Budgetary Control (2017: 60) and 38 meetings with 13 other committees and working groups of Parliament and political groups in Parliament.
A joint annual meeting of the Court's representatives with the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control was held in February 2018.
In April 2018, President Lehne took part in the debate at the plenary session of the European Parliament on the 2016 discharge procedure.
In October 2018, he presented the Court's annual report to the Committee on Budgetary Control of Parliament and the Assembly for the financial year 2017 41.
In addition, 44 presentations were presented to other competent Council preparatory bodies (2017: 27).
During the year, we presented 37 special reports, four opinions and three studies-based publications to the Council (2017: 27).
In January 2018, during the Bulgarian Presidency, President Lehne met with the Deputy Minister of Finance of Bulgaria to discuss important arrangements for the 2016 discharge procedure.
In March 2018, President Lehne and Mr Neven Mates, member of the Court responsible for our special report on macroeconomic imbalances, presented a report to EU finance ministers at the ECOFIN Council meeting.
Therefore, for the first time a special report was presented to the EU Finance Ministers of the ECOFIN Council.
President Lehne also presented our annual report for 2017 during the ECOFIN session in November during the Austrian Presidency.
Prior to the meeting, President Lehne met with the Austrian Finance Minister, who is the President of the ECOFIN Council, and the Minister of Public Finance of Romania in that Member State at the beginning of 2019 to discuss with them our 2017 annual report and the relevant discharge procedure and to inform them of the further important actions of the Court.
First presentation of the Special Report before ECOFIN 42
The governments and parliaments of the Member States Meeting the President of the Court with representatives of high-level governments in five Member States During the year President Lehne visited many EU Member States in Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Romania and met representatives of high-level governments.
These visits were often combined with the official state event or high-level conference.
In addition, the members of the Court presented an annual report for 2017 to national parliaments or other national authorities from 14 Member States.
In addition, we have taken the opportunity to present some of our special reports to the relevant parliamentary committees of national parliaments.
The delegations of national parliaments visit the Court from time to time, and we continue to explore how we can further strengthen our cooperation with national parliaments.
Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors and George Pufan, Member of the Court at a meeting with Klaus Iohannis, President of Romania, Bucharest 43 in October 2018.
Cooperation with EU Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (ORKB) In the framework of active cooperation with the EU OPC: Joint call to address shortcomings in EU banking supervision rules Our cooperation with EU Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities takes place primarily within the EU-ORKB Contact Committee.
In October 2018, we actively participated in the annual meeting of the Contact Committee hosted by ORKB of Croatia under its own leadership.
Discussions focused on interaction with EU citizens and on the making available to the public by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority.
The President of the Court of Justice, Klaus-Hein Lehne, spoke to the EU-ORKB President at the annual meeting of the Contact Committee in Dubrovnik, Croatia in October 2018, together with the leaders of the top 28 Member States' audit bodies, called on national governments and parliaments, as well as the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to address a number of shortcomings in the rules on accountability and audits of EU banking supervision.
In addition, the Court participated and participated in the activities of several working bodies of the Contact Committee, including the Value Added Tax Working Party, the Financial Policy Control Network, the Europe 2020 Strategy Assessment Network and the European Banking Union Task Force, as well as other activities in the field of public sector financial reporting and public procurement control.
The Court also coordinated the preparation of the first evaluation compendium of the Contact Committee (youth unemployment and youth integration), based on the EU-ORKB audit reports of 14 years in 2013-2017.
With the publication of the examination compendium, the Contact Committee presents a new product 44
INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2018, we continued active participation and participation in the activities of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI), in particular as Vice-President of the Technical Standards Committee (since December 2016) and as a member of the Accounting Audit Committee, the Sub-Committee on Legal Compliance Assessment and the Economic Audit Sub-Committee.
We have also actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI bodies, including mainly the Review Sub-Committee, the Environmental Assessment Working Group, the Working Group on Financial Modernisation and Regulatory Reform and the Task Force on the Professionalisation of Auditors.
We were also involved in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (EUROSAI), the European Regional IntosAI Group, in particular the Environment Assessment Working Group, the IT Audit Working Group, the Audit and Ethics Task Force and several workshops and seminars.
ORKB of candidate countries and potential EU candidate countries We also support ORKB of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo1, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey). This support is primarily provided through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through our support for activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2018, seven ORKB controllers took part in our internship programme.
In addition, we have actively contributed to the meetings and activities of this network, including addressing issues such as auditing and IT audits.
Our management of the College of Members of the Court The term of office of Members of the Court lasts six years and is renewable.
The college shall be composed of one member from each Member State.
The Court of Justice shall not take part in the appointment and appointment of members.
In 2018, the Council appointed four new members of the Court: about Eva Lindström (Sweden), Tony Murphy (Ireland) and Hannu Takkula (Finland) on 1 March 2018 and Annemie Turtelboom (Belgium) on 1 May 2018.
In addition, until 29 February 2024 and Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria), the Council extended the terms of office of five members of the Council: Pietro Russo (Italy), Baudilio in São Tomé and Melilla (Spain), Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) and João Figueiredo (Portugal) until 31 December 2024.
18 meetings of the College of Members of the Court took place in 2018 (2017: 21).
46 Meeting of the College of Members of the Court in Luxembourg on 28 February 2019
The President's role is one of the first among the same (Primus inter Pares).
Its competences include the institution's strategy, performance planning and management, communication and media, legal issues and internal audit.
It also represents the Court in all its external relations.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected president.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the Court, at the annual meeting of the College of Members of the Court and the College of Commissioners in Luxembourg in February 2018 47
President and Members 48
The Audit Chambers and Committees shall be assigned to one of the five Audit Chambers of the Court.
They shall be governed by the leadership of Doyen or Doyenne chosen from among the members.
Each member shall be responsible for his or her specific tasks and shall be assisted by his or her office.
The examination work shall be carried out by professional auditors working for the Directorates of Examination Chambers.
In December 2018, five examination chambers were led by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Millionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Neven Mates and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Danièle Lamarque presided over the Committee on Quality Control and Oscar Herics presided over our ethics committee and Jereb himself, our audit committee, while Rimantas Šadžius was a member of institutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members chaired by the Chair.
The European Court of Auditors consists of ten Directorates dealing with all its fields of activity, five of which belong to the audit chambers, one for audit quality control, the other for President and three for Secretary-General.
Secretary-General and Directors Peter Welch Director KAMMER 1 Gerhard ROSS Director KAMMER 2 Philippe FROIDURE Director KAMMER 3 Ioanna METAXOPOULOU Director KAMMER 4 Mariusz POMIENSKI Director KAMMER 5 Martin WEBER Director President Geoffrey SIMPSON Director of Quality Control for Audit Gailė DAGILIEN w.d. Director for Translation, Language Services and Publications Zacharias KOLIENSKI Director for Staff, Finance and General Services Magdalena CORDERO VALDAVIDA Director for Information, Work and Innovation Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary General 49
Measurement of results Our new key performance indicators within the 2018-2020 strategy Since 2008 we have been using key performance indicators (KPIs) to inform management about progress in achieving our goals, supporting decision-making and providing our addressees with information on our achievements.
Not only did we adopt our strategy for 2018-2020, but we also adapted our KPIs for this period.
Therefore, 2018 is the first year in which we can report on these indicators.
These five KPIs provide a comprehensive overview of the organisation of our work on dissemination, impact and perception. o KPI 1 j Implementation of our recommendations (Implementation of the Court's recommendations) on KPI 2 already interested parties" feedback on our work (Implementation of interested parties to the Court's work) on KPI 3 already Our appearances in the European Parliament, Council and national parliaments (Implementation of the Court in the European Parliament, Council and national parliaments) on KPI 4 already Number of special reports (and similar products) published (Number of special reports [and similar products] on KPI 5 juur presence in the media (Visitance to the media of the Court) 50
51 Number of special reports and similar products in 2018 We monitor the number and timeliness of reports published throughout the year.
This is a clue to the accuracy of our planning.
Out of the 47 reports planned for 2018, 44 special reports were published: 35 special reports, six thematic documents, two Landscape analyses and a quick analysis.
In addition to the selected checks provided for in our work programme, we have issued ten opinions.
Special reports and similar products 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 44 30 2017 2018 Our speeches in the European Parliament, in the Council of the EU and in national Parliaments Most of our audit reports are presented to the competent committee of the European Parliament and the EU Council.
In addition, the majority of the members of the Court present our annual reports to the national Parliament of the Member State concerned.
In 2018, the Court spoke 133 times to the European Parliament (2017: 91), 65 times to the Council (2017: 47) and 50 times to national parliaments (2017: 19).
This is a significant increase compared to 2017.
The Court's statement in 2018: European Parliament, Council and National Parliaments 52 European Parliament 91 EU Council 47 133 65 50 National Parliaments 19 2017 2018 The number of online articles and posts on social media almost three times Since 2018 we have been in close contact with media and non-institutional actors and we are much more active in social media.
We have published 76 press releases in 23 EU languages (2017: 57) and 20 press letters in Brussels (2017: 16), including press letters for the annual report, including correspondence for both the sector and the Member States concerned.
We also received journalists from Brussels and Member States and offered several meetings for selected stakeholder reports from the sector, NGOs and experts.
53 Visits of journalists from Member States in Luxembourg in November 2018 We follow the media regarding our work and our institution, which may vary considerably depending on the subject and complexity of the report.
At the same time, we must remember that external factors can have a major impact on media interest in our publications.
For example, if the date of publication coincides with an important event or policy development, the public interest in this matter may increase significantly.
The total number of media reports, including social media, has almost tripled: in 2017 there were around 15,500 articles and online articles in social media, and in 2018 their number increased to more than 44 000.
Social media posts published by the Court's official accounts for our publications have been displayed around 11 million times in 2018, almost 18 times more frequently than in 2017.
Special reports on reporting in the media are clearly our example in the field of communication and reporting in the media, special reports have become our example. Twelve of the Court's 15 most successful publications in 2018 are special reports.
This year there were more than 11 000 online articles on our special reports, which means that this number has more than doubled compared to 2017.
On the other hand, the total number of online articles was 1500 in 2013 in the year in which we started to follow the media.
Compared to 2017, there was a 60% increase in the average number of media reports in the special report.
This means that our presence in the media has increased not only because of more reports, but also because of greater interest in our publications.
Media information on annual reports, special reports and overall 54 online articles Social media Total Online articles Social media General online articles Social media Total 6 297 0 10 000 20 000 30 000 40 000 960 207 952 2 425 1 912 2 632 4 762 9 159 1 535 Special report on the European high-speed rail network, containing more than 4400 online articles and contributions to social media 11 682 20 841 7752 11198 13 535 2018 18 152 21 287 29 350 2017 The majority of the media reports in 2018 concerned our special reports on the European high-speed rail network, the effectiveness of the European Central Bank's management of banking crises and the refugee instrument in Turkey.
Hof has five social media accounts: * This number indicates how many times our posts have been displayed.
Throughout the year we have seen a sharp increase in our presence and involvement in social media, especially on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedInu, which are now an essential element of our communication activities and enable us to exchange information directly with citizens.
The number of our trackers or subscribers and the number of our impressions that show how often our posts are displayed are increasing.
55 Followers/Subscribers 2018 Increase compared to 2017 Impression rate * 7 674 31 % 3 419 137 10 080 23% 256 268 4 800 83 % 9 590 234 869 27 % 117 800 1 134 149 % C.E.
Effects and perceptions of our work Our reports are extremely useful and effective We assess the impact and perception of our work on the basis of the assessments carried out by the addressees. Another criterion of evaluation is further action taken on the basis of our recommendations for improving the EU's financial management.
At the beginning of 2018, we started asking our stakeholders (the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, EU agencies, permanent representations of Member States, public authorities of Member States, national supervisory authorities, non-governmental organisations, science, media, etc.) for feedback on the appropriateness and likely impact of our reports.
The feedback shall relate to selected special reports and analyses and annual reports of the Court and shall be collected by anonymous electronic surveys from all persons who have previously received a copy of those reports.
This study also allows stakeholders to provide qualitative feedback on reports and to make general proposals on the Court's work.
A total of 87% of respondents confirmed the relevance of our reports to their work and 78% responded to them.
56 Properties of reports 15 42 30 12 1 Likely impact of reports 0 % 10 % 20% 30 % 40 % 60 % 70 % 80% 90 % 100 % Very high level Low 7 30 41 18 4
Continuing our recommendations Most of our recommendations have been implemented since 2018 instead of the European Commission's management declaration, we use this indicator of action taken by our controllers as a basis.
In 2018, we analysed the recommendations made in our special reports published in 2014 and in the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 74% of the recommendations made by us in our 2014 Annual Report and 94% of the recommendations made in our Special Reports published in 2014 have been fully, largely or partially implemented.
Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year of issue 57 Implementation of the Court's recommendations in the 2014 annual report 10 % 6% 10 % 32 % 32 % 10 % Implementation of the Court's recommendations following the 2014 performance audit 6% 19 % 17 % 58 % Fully implemented Implementation of partially insufficient evidence Not implemented
Our staff employed 834 officials and temporary staff at the European Court of Auditors by the end of 2018.
The Court's establishment plan consisted of 853 permanent and temporary posts, including 541 posts in control chambers, including 112 posts in the members' office.
Areas of activity of our employees: Examination services, translation, administration and services of the President 58 Examination services 541 Translation Administration of the President's Service 135 Total 853 129 48 In addition, 76 contract staff and 15 seconded national experts were employed at the end of the year.
The recruitment of the Court's staff has a broad academic and professional background.
Our recruitment policy is based on the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promotes equal opportunities at all levels.
In 2018, the Court had 79 staff: 15 officials, 32 temporary staff, 22 contract staff and 10 seconded national experts.
In addition, we have provided 60 graduates with internships for a period of between three and five months.
Age profile The age profile of staff working on 31 December 2018 indicates that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
30 of the 64 directors and heads of the Court (47%) are 55 years old or older.
Age profile 59 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % already 2% up to 1% 5% up to 15% 25 % 7% 12% 16% 18% 20% 23% 18% Note: Total differences are related to rounding.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced participation of women and men among our employees; 45% of our auditors and boards are women.
The ratio of women to men at the level of responsibility 60 34 % 66% 55% 45% 45% 62% 38% Assistants and secretaries Auditors and administrators Managing 0 20% 40% 60% Male 80% 100% Female We are still striving to achieve a balance between women and men at all levels of management.
For example, in recent years, we have managed to increase the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers, which at the end of 2015, stood at 7%, to almost 24% by the end of 2018.
Our policy of equal opportunities for the years 2018-2020 also addresses issues related to age and disability.
Managers broken down by nationality and sex 61
Support for audit activities Vocational training: this is how we equip our employees and the Court for the future In line with recommendations issued by the International Accounting Federation (IFAC), we try to provide an average of 40 hours of vocational training for each examiner per year (five days).
In 2018, we crossed that target again for 6.9 days of training per controller.
We continued to expand the scope of training that we offer to employees both in the area of control and beyond, and to support controllers in obtaining different certificates.
We continued our successful series of presentations organised by internal or external experts on the development of audit or other issues related to the work of our auditors.
We continued the "Performance Recognition Awards," which allows employees who do not hold managerial positions to participate in specialized external trainings.
Average number of training days per year 7.0 6.7 6.9 Objective ≥ 2 days 2016 2017 per examiner 2018 4.0 2016 2.3 3.1 2017 2018 Objective ≥ 5 days per non-rapporteur 62 days
Effective cooperation with educational institutions We have signed a partnership agreement with the European College (Brussels, Belgium), which provides for cooperation in several areas, including training, traineeships and reporting.
We have also concluded cooperation agreements with the European Institute of Public Administration and other organisations that will enable our employees to participate in training organised by these institutions.
We continued and developed our cooperation with the University of Lorraine: once again we offered post-graduate studies "Public Organizations and Police Audit" (control of public organisations and politics) and Master's "Management of public organisations" (management of public organisations). We also developed a new post-graduate program called "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit."
Finally, the controllers from other ORKB participated in our internal trainings.Some of them shared their experience in illustrating the reports during the Court's Annual Training Day, in which more than 450 people participated.
Interactive, publicly available online courses We have provided our online education to check the profitability of the public and we have organised two interactive seminars with a capacity of more than 150 participants from around the world.
The translation by the Directorate for Translation, Language Services and Publications of the Court translated and improved more than 251 000 pages in 2018, representing an increase of more than 18% compared to 2017.
This increase also led to a higher outsourcing rate.
In addition, all our translation teams use harmonised working methods.
The translators became increasingly involved in the Court's audit activities by providing linguistic support during the audit visits and preparing most reports.
Thanks to this, we have managed to create more synergies with our auditors.
The publication team is now a full member of the Directorate.
Checking the originals for translation and finally for publication, integrated with one optimized work process.
Information, working environment and innovation Our Directorate for Information, Labour and Innovation supports our employees in the effective and efficient use of information technologies by supporting innovation and knowledge management.
Information Management We have launched a new initiative called TECAway, which gives our employees access to the network on the way.
This enables them to access the Court's digital resources and services on all devices, anywhere and at any time.
The Court has created a new harmonised document management system and introduced multi-functional printing, photocopying and scanning devices.
We expect these devices to have a positive impact on information security and paper consumption.
In addition, we have introduced a new model for cybersecurity management and are currently working on the implementation of the Cyber Security Plan.
All IT projects and IT solutions took due account of the maintenance of business activities, thus ensuring full availability of critical systems.
Innovation We have also established ECAlab, an interdisciplinary innovation laboratory which, through the use of data and technology, focuses on the digitisation of the scope of control.
ECAlab tests the use of technologies such as artificial intelligence, natural language processing and text mining in real exam tasks.
This support has already benefited from many tasks and publications.
In addition, we have carried out a pilot project on the use of blocking technologies for notarial certification of verification and publication.
In this way, the ECA registry prototype was selected as part of the European service blocking infrastructure to be developed from 2019 by the European Block Partnership established by the EU Member States and the Commission.
Knowledge Management Our first summer course in public financial control was held in July 2018, organized jointly with the University of Pisa and the Accounting Association (ACCA).
45 people from ORB, EU institutions and universities took part in the summer course, which focused on the analysis of exam data.
We also organised a conference on blockchain, during which we examined the possibilities offered by this technology and its practical application to control EU spending.
This conference was addressed mainly to participants from other EU institutions.
The Farm Building currently has three buildings ("K1, "K2" and "K3"), which constitute one integrated technical unit.
In addition, the Court rents office space for its data recovery centre in Luxembourg.
Other missiles are used in offices for up to 241 employees, where there are conference rooms, conference room with translation booths, video conference room, café and base kitchen room.
A detailed analysis of this project will be carried out in 2019 and work will begin at the end of this year.
As the European Parliament and the Council approved in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds from the construction project K3 completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation.
K3 Building K3 was opened in 2012.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) K3 was rated as "very good."
In September 2018, a new security control centre and an external accreditation and access control centre were set up for workers and visitors.
The main building of EuRH "K1" and the new security control centre at Rue Alcide De Gasperi, Luxembourg Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, it is our duty to respect the principle of sound environmental management in all activities.
We are therefore constantly trying to reduce the Court's environmental impact.
Currently, we successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully comply with the certification requirements set out in ISO 14001:2015.
As part of our objective of systematically reducing CO2 emissions, we regularly examine greenhouse gas emissions caused by our actions.
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 amounted to 10 451 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), representing a 3% reduction compared to 2016.
2018 was the fourth consecutive year in which the Court examined its CO2 footprint.
67 The Court's liability The Court's financial information is financed by the general budget of the European Union and its budget falls within the scope of administrative expenditure.
In 2018, the Court's budget was around EUR 146 million.
This represents less than 0,1% of the total EU expenditure or around 1.5% of the total EU administrative expenditure.
Expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the agricultural and rural development policy area
Implementation of the budget 2018 68 YEAR 2018 Final appropriations - commitments - in % of payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (EUR thousand) 10 To this end, members of the institution 12 265 11 245 92 % 11 186 12 at the same time officials and temporary staff 105 044 102 543 98 % 102 528 14 To this end, other staff and external services 6 335 5 914 93 % 5 825 4 at the same time 3 450 3 050 88% 2 537 161 + 165 at the same time Other expenditure on members and staff 2 990 institutions 2 883 96 % 2 221 Total Title 1 130 084 125 635 97 % 124 297 Title 2: buildings, equipment, equipment and various operating expenditure 20 in the building 2 956 2 945 99% 1 822 210 in the field of data and telecommunications 8 708 8 707 99% 4 714 212 + 214 + 216 at the same time + 216 of this Article 1 066 94% 749 23 in the framework of current operational expenditure 257 353 63% 2584 % 2 in the framework of conference 708 584
The 2019 budget increased by 0.6% compared to 2018.
69 BUDGET 2019 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 to 11 474 12 515 12. Officials and temporary staff 107 666 10600 600 14 14 of which 14 745 162 tonnes are missions 3 450 3 450 161 + 163 + 165 tonnes + 163 + 165 tonnes tomographical 3 098 2 990 General title 1 132 069 131 300 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating expenditure 20 volumes, construction 2 984 2 930 210 volumes and telecommunications 7 605 7 492 212 + 214 + 216 furniture and related costs 998 1 157 23 volumes current operating expenditure 555 25 meetings and conferences 700 706 27 is information and publications 1 986 1 876 members Title 2 14 821 14 716 European Court of Auditors total 146 890 146 016
Internal audit and external audit Internal audit body shall advise the Court on issues relating to risk management.
It provides an independent and objective guarantee and advice to increase and improve the added value of the Court's activities.
In addition, they shall report to the Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee shall regularly monitor progress in the implementation of the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the internal audit body and ensure its independence.
In 2018, she carried out a review of the Court's cybersecurity systems and construction work related to its protection about one meter.
The services also examined the implementation of the risk management policy by the Court and the annual declarations by the authorising officer by delegation.
In addition, it monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations to ensure that the agreed action plans became a reality.
In 2018, the controls carried out by the services did not show any shortcomings which, due to their nature or scope, could seriously jeopardise the overall credibility of internal control systems; the control systems were introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations.
Every year we report to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
External audit Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same principles of transparency and accountability as those of the bodies it has carried out.
The auditor's report on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2017 was published on 17 May 2018.
Financial statements of the independent auditor for the financial year 2017 71 on the Court's accounts: "After our assessment, the annual accounts shall provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Court of Auditors (the "Hofem') as at 31 December 2017 and the results of its operations, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending that date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).'
Regarding the use of resources and the Court's audit procedure: "As part of our actions described in this report, we have not found ourselves in a situation from which we would have to conclude that, in all relevant matters and taking into account the above evaluation criteria, the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for specific purposes and that the control procedures laid down do not provide the necessary guarantees that financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
The discharge, like the other EU institutions, is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2018, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2016.
As every year, we have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our responsibility for control and management, we have taken appropriate action and we have informed the European Parliament in detail about our follow-up.
On 26 March 2019 the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge for the financial year 2017.
This means that our annual accounts were finally approved for 2017.
The peer review shall be the subject of an independent and transparent assessment of the competences of the ORB concerned by other ORBs.
Each ORKB organisation participating in the peer review shall continue to respect the independence of the other ORKB organisations during the implementation.
In 2018, we asked the ORB Estonia (chairman of the ORKB), Denmark, the Netherlands and the United States of America to assess whether the Court is on the way to achieving strategic objectives in the mid-2018-2020 period and whether it is possible that the measures taken so far to implement the strategy will have the desired effect.
The peer review report is expected to be published at the beginning of 2019.
At the same time, together with the ORB of Poland and the United Kingdom, we started preparations for mutual verification of the ORB of Lithuania.
The main objective of this evaluation will be to assess whether the control approach adopted by the ORB in Lithuania complies with international standards.
In addition, during the year we commissioned an external and independent evaluation of the Court's ethical framework.
This peer review is carried out by the Court of Auditors of Croatia and Poland.
The review report is expected to be made available in 2019 72
The statement by the authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate and confirm with reasonable assurance that the appropriations for the actions described in this report have been used for specific purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management for which the control procedures laid down provide the necessary assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the proper handling of allegations of fraud or suspected fraud, the costs and benefits of the controls.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 March 2019.
The Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 09/2018 is amended as follows: "Special reports, annual reports, opinions and products based on the analysis: "Special report No 01/2018: Joint assistance for supporting projects in the European regions (JASPERS) ": Time to better focus' on "Special report No 02/2018: Effectiveness of the ECB's management of banking crises o "Special report No 03/2018: Study of the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP) on "Special report No 04/2018: EU assistance to Myanmar/Birma on "Special report No 05/2018: Renewable energy for sustainable rural development: significant but mostly unused synergies on "Special report No 06/2018: Freedom of movement of workers is necessary but better targeting EU funds for the mobility of workers' on "Special report No 07/2018: Pre-accession aid for Turkey': "Special sponsors No 08/2018: EU support for productive investments' in the benefit of enterprises, but better targeting of EU funds for the mobility of workers: "Special report No 07/2018: Pre-accession aid for Turkey: "Special contributions No 08/2018: Support for the promotion of enterprises' in the field of simplification of enterprises:
Special Report No 20/2018: The Instrument for Refugees in Turkey: although helpful, the best use of the resources can only be achieved by improving 2017 2017 2017 on Special Report No 28/2018: Most simplification measures under Horizon 2020 have facilitated the lives of beneficiaries, but further improvements can be made to the Special Report No 29/2018: EUEIiN has made a significant contribution to supervision and stability in the insurance sector, but there are still major challenges about Special Report No 30/2018: EU passenger rights in transport and passengers are full but their enforcement is still difficult about Special Report No 31/2018: Animal protection in the EU: filling in the gap between ambitious objectives and practical implementation of Special Report No 32/2018: a flexible but insufficient instrument in Special Report No 33/2018: the fight against desertnn desertnn desertnn desertenna desertnia in the EU: a growing risk requiring increased action on Special Report No 34/2018: the EU office areas of the EU institutions within the EU for good management procedures but also a few gaps in relation to Special Report No 35 on the EU Final Report No 35 on the EU report: The EU annual report on youth support for the end of 2015 for the youth report for the year 2015; the youth report for the year 2015; the youth report for the 2015; the youth report for the year.
Legal Notice © European Union, 2019.
Playing is allowed with the source.
© Croix-Rouge française (French Red Cross) you should be allowed to use or play the following images directly from the copyright owners: S. 30, © Croix-Rouge française (French Red Cross).
© © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © ©
Hundreds of Europe Direct information offices are located in the European Union.
Contact Europe Direct via a toll-free telephone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers charge) via the standard telephone number: +32 22999696 or via e-mail: http://europa.eu/contact EU INFORMATION In all official languages of Europe: http://europa.eu EU publications You can download or order EU publications in part free of charge: http://publications.europa.eu/eubookshop.
If you wish a few copies of your free publication, please contact Europe Direct or the information office in your area (see http://europa.eu/contact).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU rules in all official languages since 1951, can be found in EUR-Lex at: http://eur-lex.europa.eu Open EU data On the EU's open data portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp).
ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 QJ-AA-19-001-DE-C
DE Our activities in 2019 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2020 Print ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-4585-2 HTML ISBN 9788-92-847-4572-2 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN2315-3903 doi:10.2865/6146 doi:10.2865/105562 doi:10.2865-263527 QJ-AA-20-001-DE-C QJ-AA-20-001-DE-N QJ-AA-20-001-DE-Q
Our actions in 2019 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors
2 College of Members of the European Court of Auditors in January 2020
Content Preface of the President 6 2019 at a glance 7 Our actions 9 Strategy 9 Monitoring the efficiency and regularity of EU activities 10 Work programme 11 Audit work on site 12 Audit reports, analyses and opinions 15 Cross-cutting topics 32 Institutional relations 34 Cooperation with the highest audit authorities 39 Our management 43 Members 43 Audit Chambers and Committees 45 Measurement of achievements 47 Our staff 54 Staff allocation 54 Staff recruitment 54 Age profile 55 Equal opportunities 55 3
4 Support for control activities 57 Vocational training 57 Translation 59 Information technologies, working environment and innovation 59 Building 61 Further increase in our security measures 63 Environmental management 64 Court's responsibility 65 Financial information 65 Internal and external audit 67 Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation 70
European Court of Auditors 5 Who are we about the external auditor of the European Union; about the Treaty of Brussels established in 1975; starting office in October 1977; since the Maastricht Treaty of 1993 the EU institution; about the headquarters in Luxembourg; about one member from each EU Member State, appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament; about 900 employees from all EU countries.
Our role is to ensure that the EU ensures sound financial management, correctly applies its financial rules, achieves its objectives through its policies and programmes and ensures the optimal use of funds.We warn against risks, ensure security of control, point to weaknesses and successes and give guidance to policy makers and Union legislators.
2019 meant a lot of changes for the Union: elections to the European Parliament took place and the new European Commission adopted its position.
The strategic priorities have been re-defined and important action packages have been launched, such as the European Green Agreement or the European Digital Future (early 2020).
At the end of the year it became clear that we would now be a Union of 27 Member States.
At the same time, the EU is at an important financial crossroads.
We are close to concluding negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework, the results of which will be decisive for the financial capacity of the Union over the next seven years.
All EU institutions must now build on their efforts to further improve the Union's financial management and ensure that the EU delivers results.
As an external auditor, we offer an impartial assessment of the Union's policies and programmes and the quality of EU financial management both within and outside the Union.
We are checking that EU expenditure is in line with the rules and that EU policies and programmes ensure optimal use of resources.
This activity report provides an overview of our work in 2019 in which we have published a wide range of latest special reports, analyses and opinions.
You will also find information about our employees, management and finance.
We hope that this information will be useful.
We are publishing this year's activity report at a time when public health in the EU and its Member States is unprecedented due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our institution responded quickly to this situation in accordance with the Luxembourg Government's health and safety instructions.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their good work and their willingness to adapt flexibly to the current situation.
We must now act together and make every effort to continue as an external EU controller in these difficult times.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President 6
7 2019 at a glance
8 Our actions Strategy To continue to support the development of public financial control, we are based on multi-annual strategies to take long-term decisions on our control activities and to take initiatives for organisational change in order to continuously improve.
At the end of 2019 we completed the second year of the current strategy for the years 2018-2020.
During this three-year period, we have defined the following strategic objectives: to increase the added value of the Statement of Assurance; to focus more on the aspects of the effectiveness of EU action; to provide clear information for our addressees.
As regards the practical implementation of our strategy, we have agreed on an action plan covering these objectives.
Over the last two years, we have made good progress towards achieving our strategic objectives.
A number of initiatives and projects have been launched for all the areas identified, which sometimes go beyond the scope of the Action Plan, in particular the pilot phase of the test-based audit approach to draw up a Statement of Assurance, which has led to useful results; a significant increase in the number of performance controls and analytical products, as well as a wider range of issues covering both EU spending and regulatory action; better contacts with the European Parliament and greater visibility in traditional and social media.
During the year, a group of the four highest control bodies (Estonia, the Netherlands, Denmark and the United States) have peer-reviewed our strategy.
The report of our colleagues was published in March 2020 and just in time to give value to our next strategy since 2021.
Good progress in implementing our strategy 9
Monitoring the efficiency and regularity of EU operations Performance audits, accounting audits and compliance audits Our performance controls take into account the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EU policies and programmes.
It focuses on issues that reflect important issues for the EU, such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, economic growth and social inclusion, migration and global development challenges, the internal market and the banking union, and ensuring the accountability and cost-effectiveness of the European Union.
These controls aim at helping the EU achieve its policy objectives better.
Our accounting checks and compliance checks lead to the assurance of the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
We may also carry out selected conformity checks to examine or assess the Union's budgetary and financial management, whether the management and control systems established for the collection and use of EU funds comply with applicable Union and national rules.
Our audits are in line with international public sector audit standards. 10
Work Programme Strategic perspective In 2019 we continued integrating the strategic perspective into our audit work in order to better respond to the main challenges facing the EU through a future-oriented approach.
To this end, we have set up an advisory committee on strategies and perspectives.
One of the current tasks of this Committee, composed of five members, is to monitor the development of the post-2020 strategy.
The audit priorities for the future of the EU Our work programme was published in October 2019 in which we present our control priorities for the coming years and 41 reports and analyses to be published for 2020.
Our audits planned for 2020 and beyond will continue to provide EU citizens and policy makers with independent reports on issues relevant to the future of the EU.
We draw up a work programme for our exams in an independent way, but not in complete isolation from our surroundings.
It is therefore very important that we cooperate with our institutional stakeholders, especially the European Parliament.
As usual at the beginning of 2019, we asked all parliamentary committees to propose possible topics for monitoring our work programme. 11
Examination work on the spot Most of our examination work takes place in our rooms in Luxembourg.
The Commission shall also carry out a number of monitoring visits to the European Commission in the field of education and training in the field of education and training, and shall be accompanied by an evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation and evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results and the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation and evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results of the evaluation and evaluation of the results of the evaluation and evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the results and the results of the evaluation of the evaluation of the results of the results of the evaluation of the evaluation of the results and the results of the evaluation of the evaluation.
In addition, we carry out on-the-spot checks on beneficiaries of EU funds both within and outside the EU.
These checks will allow us to understand the audit trail and to obtain direct proof of control from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes and the collection or payment of EU funds, as well as from beneficiaries of such funds.
In line with the objective set out in the EU Financial Regulation, we are trying to complete our selected audits within 13 months 12.
3 605 days of audit work within and outside the EU Our examination teams usually consist of two to three controllers, and the duration of the verification visit may be several days, but also a few weeks.
In the EU, our on-the-spot checks are usually coordinated with the highest control authorities of the Member States concerned.
13 The frequency and intensity of our control activities in individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the type of controls we have carried out.
In 2019 our auditors spent 3 605 days (2018: 3 671 days) on on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU.
In addition, our auditors spent 2 504 days (2018: 2 723 days) in the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as in decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations or OECD and audit firms.
In connection with the interaction with our research units, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies such as secure data exchange and documents. 14
Audit reports, analyses and opinions Our audit reports, analyses and opinions are an important link in the EU's accountability chain.
They assist the European Parliament and the Council in monitoring and verifying that the EU achieves its political objectives and the bodies responsible for managing EU finances - in particular in the framework of the annual discharge procedure.
Special reports and analysis products In line with our strategy for 2018-2020 in recent years, we have put greater emphasis on assessing the results of EU action.
In 2019 we published 36 special reports and analyses on the many challenges facing the Union in various areas of EU spending, such as food security, renewable energy, e-commerce, border controls, budgetary management and an ethical framework in selected EU institutions to mention only a few. 15
16 In special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved effectively and economically and whether the EU's actions have brought added value, i.e. whether more has been achieved than just through national action.
In addition, we make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, prevention of waste or more effective achievement of the policy objectives.
Our analyses are often aimed at providing descriptions and analytical analyses from a cross-cutting perspective and on the basis of previous studies or other publicly available information.
They can also help us to present our analysis of areas or issues that have not yet been examined, or to present facts about specific issues or problems.
Unlike exams, they do not deal with assessment issues or guarantee credibility.
17 Sustainable exploitation of natural resources Analysis 01/2019: The EU response to the diesel scandal In 2015, differences were detected between the values of the exhaust gas at the test bench and the values of the exhaust gas on the road.
Studies have shown that so-called "cut-off devices" were used which caused lower emissions during official tests than during normal driving.
The type-approval authorities of certain Member States responded to the emission scandal by re-testing diesel engines.
These studies have shown that almost all light commercial vehicles with Euro 5 and Euro 6 diesel engines have significantly exceeded the NOx limit values, in some cases by more than 10 times.
We have considered the measures taken by both the EU and the Member States in response to the diesel scandal.
We also took into account the changes introduced after September 2015 in the exhaust emission measurement system.
We have noted that many legal changes in the EU type-approval and vehicle emission testing system have been adopted in an accelerated manner.
The Commission is currently empowered to review the work of the national type-approval authorities and to carry out vehicle tests and to withdraw or suspend type-approval.
Interested third parties may now carry out emission tests.
The Commission has also opened infringement proceedings against certain Member States.
We have also noted that in several Member States there has been an increased readiness to reduce car traffic in order to improve air quality, and in several European cities low-carbon zones have been created in which motor traffic is limited or banned.
We have presented the results of our work in the form of an analysis, because in the near future the legislative changes introduced will not have tangible effects.
Our analysis doesn't make recommendations.
18 Investment for Cohesion, Growth and Integration Special Report No 08/2019: Wind and solar energy for electricity generation: In order to achieve the EU's objectives, considerable efforts are needed to generate electricity from non-renewable energy sources such as fossil fuels, non-renewable waste, nuclear fuel in conventional reactors, or renewable energy sources such as water, wind and solar energy, biomass, etc.
Renewable energy sources also serve the production of heat and cooling and fuel production for the transport sector.
Currently, 79% of total EU greenhouse gas emissions come from the use of fossil fuels for energy production.
The increased share of renewable energy in electricity production will contribute to the EU's greenhouse gas reduction target.
Member States shall determine how they make best use of their energy resources and how they organise their energy supplies.
The EU can support Member States' efforts through additional resources to invest in renewable energy projects.
We have assessed the progress made by the EU and the Member States in achieving the targets for the share of renewable energy in order to achieve the overall EU target of 20% by 2020 and 32% by 2030.
In Germany, Greece, Spain and Poland, we checked whether the support for wind and photovoltaic power production was effective.
We have noted that significant progress has been made since 2005 in the share of renewable energy in the energy mix, but this trend has slowed down after 2014.
The share of renewable energy in electricity production in the EU increased from around 15% (in 2015) to almost 31% (in 2017) and doubled.
Wind and solar energy are technologies that have contributed most to this growth.
However, achieving the objectives will be a major challenge for around half of the Member States.
We recommended that the Commission encourage Member States to promote further development by organising auctions on additional renewable energy capacity, promoting greater participation of citizens, simplifying administrative procedures and removing network shortcomings.
In addition, we recommended that the Commission review the legal requirements for Member States in order to improve the timeliness of statistical data.
19 External policy, security and justice Special Report No 24/2019: Asylum, relocation and return of migrants: time to step up efforts to eliminate disparities between objectives and results In 2015, the European Union experienced an unprecedented influx of migrants and subsequently an increase in asylum applications.
In recent years, the number of immigrants has returned to pre-crisis levels.
We interviewed the staff of the European Commission, the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (hereinafter Frontex).
Monitoring visits were carried out with national authorities, international organisations and non-governmental organisations implementing EU-funded projects, and 20 EU support actions were carried out in Greece and Italy.
Both Member States are particularly affected by these migration flows.
We have assessed whether the objectives of EU-funded support have been achieved and whether asylum and return procedures have been met effectively and quickly.
We have also checked whether the objectives and objectives of the temporary emergency relocation system have been achieved.
We learned that the rates of registration and fingerprinting in the hotspot have improved significantly.
Nevertheless, many migrants continue to move to other EU Member States and apply for asylum without storing fingerprints in the Eurodac database.
In addition, in both Member States asylum procedures continue for a long time and narrow throats.
A large proportion of applicants were also transferred (80% in Greece and 89% in Italy).
However, since February 2018, the Commission has not monitored relocation in host countries.
As in other EU countries, return rates from Greece and Italy are low.
We recommended that the next Commission take appropriate action to improve the management of emergency aid.
In addition, the Commission should take advantage of past experience in the development of future voluntary relocation mechanisms.
Finally, EASO's support for asylum procedures should be increased and Frontex's support for return operations should be adapted.
20 Market regulation and competitive economy Special Report No 10/2019: EU-wide stress tests for banks: the need for as much information as possible on banks but greater coordination and concentration of risk The aim of the EU-wide stress test for banks is to assess the potential impact that a joint shock can have on the financial situation and profitability of large European banks.
The European Banking Authority (EBA) in cooperation with the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) shall be responsible for initiating and coordinating EU-wide stress tests on banks.
Stress tests have been carried out in the EU since 2011, all of which have been carried out in accordance with the bottom-up approach, with banks reporting the results of the shock scenario based on a methodology approved by EBA.
We have assessed the implementation of an EU-wide stress test in the banking sector within the framework of the mandate granted to EBA.
We found that at the beginning of the procedure EBA did not specify either the risks or the weight it would consider relevant for the stress test.
In turn, the ESRB, which developed the stress scenario, received significant contributions from the ECB and national central banks and public authorities.
As a result, EBA had no control over the relevant stages of the procedure.
In the United States, supervisory authorities are based on a top-down approach, providing them with much more control over the performance of banks.
On the other hand, EBA's role in the EU is limited to starting stress tests, ensuring methodology and broad coordination of stress tests.
The EBA stress test assessed the vulnerability of the system and banks to the economic downturn rather than the severe financial shocks affecting the system.
Although EBA sought wide coverage, some risk-bearing banks were excluded from the stress test.
The bottom-up approach of EBA has led to a limited credibility and comparability of the results obtained by the banks.
We recommended that EBA strengthen control of the stress test and develop a top-down approach to complement the current bottom-up approach.
Furthermore, in order to achieve the objective of assessing resilience to adverse market developments, future stress tests should take due account of the risks posed by the EU financial system, ensure a minimum level of stress and provide clear information on the resilience of banks.
Finally, the choice of banks for stress tests should take place not only by size but also by risk.
21 Financing and management of the Union Special Report No 14/2019: "Your opinion counts!"
The Commission's public consultation covers citizens, but there are no information actions under "better lawmaking" to ensure an open and transparent political decision-making process based on the best facts available and based on the views of citizens and other stakeholders such as civil society organisations and representative organisations that are fully involved.
The Commission shall consult citizens and representative organisations in all areas of Union action.
The Better Regulation Guidelines define consultation with stakeholders and citizens are also "interested."
During the consultation of stakeholders, in particular during the public consultation, information and opinions of citizens and other stakeholders shall be gathered when the Commission prepares a political initiative or an evaluation of ongoing interventions.
On average, the Commission carries out more than 100 public consultations per year.
We assessed whether the public consultation carried out by the Commission effectively contributed to reaching out to citizens and stakeholders and making use of their contributions.
We have examined the structure of the Commission's framework, the way the Commission prepares and conducts the choice of public consultations and how it communicates information on consultation activities and the use of consultations.
We reviewed the sample of 26 public consultations carried out by the Commission in 2016-2018 by five Directorates-General and conducted a public opinion poll to determine how satisfied the participants in the public consultation were.
We have found that the Commission's public consultation framework has a high standard.
In addition, the Commission's overall public consultation attempt showed a positive balance sheet and its perception by the participants was generally satisfactory.
Communication and feedback shortcomings have been identified, for example, the whole range of communication channels has not always been used, there have been no clear criteria to justify why the questionnaire was not available in all official EU languages and some questionnaires were long and complex.
We recommended that public consultation advertising take place to a greater extent and to a greater extent in order to increase visibility and enable more people to participate.
We have also informed the Commission that the follow-up to public consultations should be better informed.
Finally, it is possible to improve citizens' participation in the process of drafting legislative proposals under the European Citizens' Initiative.
Audit projections Audit projections provide information on current audit tasks (in the area of economic audit).
They shall be based on preparatory work carried out prior to the start of the inspection and shall serve as a source of information for those interested in specific policy areas and/or programmes which are subject to ongoing control.
In 2019 we published 18 exam forecasts (2018: 12).
Annual reports and special annual reports The annual reports mainly contain the results of our statement of assurance of the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund (EDF).
The special annual reports shall include the results of the annual review of the annual accounts of the agencies, decentralised bodies and EU Joint Undertakings and European Schools.
In addition, we publish a report on the conditional obligations arising from the implementation by the Single Committee on Restructuring and Structured Restructuring (RSB) of its tasks 22.
Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2018 Each year we analyse EU revenue and expenditure to verify that the annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying revenue and expenditure transactions comply with the relevant rules at EU and Member State level.
We also submit detailed assessments of all important areas of the EU budget based on the (sub) headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2014-2020.
We are also looking at why and where mistakes have been made, we are making recommendations for improving and assessing whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been implemented.
Finally, we provide information on budgetary and financial management and on results.
This extensive work is the basis for our statement of assurance, which we must present to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with our mandate set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
EU general budget: full opinion on the reliability of accounts and revenue; limited opinion on expenditure In 2018, EU expenditure amounted to EUR 156.7 billion, representing 2.2% of the total EU Member State expenditure and 1% of the Union's gross national income.
Our auditors have examined a sample of 728 payments to beneficiaries in all areas of expenditure in the EU budget from the population to be examined at around EUR 120 billion.
This means that we have analysed various cases where EU funds have been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support non-EU beneficiaries.
For the financial year 2018, we issued an unreserved opinion on the reliability of EU accounts and revenues.
In addition, in the third year in a row, we were able to present a limited opinion on EU spending 23.
About half of the expenditure audited does not show a significant error rate, as in previous years, it was found that errors in EU expenditure were not exhaustive and payments were legal and regular, except for expenditure related to high risk (mainly expenditure subject to complex reimbursement rules).
In total, the Commission and the Member States maintained the error rate of 2.6% compared to the progress made over the previous two years (financial year 2017: 2,4%; financial year 2016: 3,1 %).
We find this an encouraging sign.
What does that mean?
A mistake or incorrect payment is the amount of funds that could not be paid out of the EU budget because they were not used in accordance with EU or national legislation and are therefore not in line with the objectives set by the Council and Parliament by the relevant EU legislation or are contrary to specific national rules in the Member States.
We evaluate the error rate using statistical methods and rely on measurable (i.e. measurable coins) errors that we have identified by testing the sample of transactions in the entire expenditure population.
The most missed issue of the MFF: Economic, social and territorial cohesion In the financial year 2018, the area of "economic, social and territorial cohesion" was the most erroneous part of the MFF, followed by "Natural Resources" and "Competitiveness for Growth and Jobs" 25.
Annual report on the European Development Fund: a full opinion on the reliability of accounts and revenue; a limited opinion on expenditure 26 The European Development Fund (EDF) is the main instruments of EU development cooperation assistance.
The EFF aims to overcome poverty and promote sustainable development and the integration of African, Caribbean and Pacific States and overseas countries and territories into the world economy.
The EFF shall be financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
As in previous years, for the financial year 2018, we issued an unreserved opinion on the reliability of EDF accounts and revenue and a limited opinion on EDF expenditure.
Special annual reports on EU agencies and joint enterprises The EU agencies are separate entities with legal personality, set up to perform specific technical and scientific tasks and administrative tasks, thus contributing to the formulation and implementation of policies of the EU institutions.
There are 43 agencies in total.
Joint enterprises are EU public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is a member of the public sector joint venture and represents the EU.
In total, there are eight joint ventures.
27 Note: The United Kingdom left the European Union on 31 January 2020.
Unlimited audit opinion from all agencies except one; unlimited audit opinion from all joint enterprises Overall, in the financial year 2018 was made available to all agencies (except SRB) total amount of EUR 4.2 billion, 20% more than in 2017 (EUR 3.5 billion), representing around 2.9% of the total EU budget for 2018 (2017: 2,7%).
Overall, our audit of the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2018 confirmed the positive results presented in previous years.
We have issued unlimited opinions on the reliability of the accounts, revenue and payments underlying the Agency's accounts, with the exception of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), which has been issued a limited opinion on payments.
We have also issued unlimited opinions to all joint enterprises on the reliability of accounts, income and expenditure.
The launch of the discharge procedure by Parliament The publication of our annual reports is at the beginning of the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament, on the recommendation of the Council, decides whether the Commission and other bodies have managed the EU budget satisfactorily.
In October 2019 we presented our annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the EDF of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, followed by the plenary session of the European Parliament, the Council (ECOFIN) and the national parliaments and bodies of the 21 Member States.
28 Other annual reports: conditional commitments and European Schools We are obliged to report annually on all contingent liabilities arising within the Single Committee on Restructuring and Restructuring, the Council and the Commission in the performance of their resolution tasks.
In our 2018 report, we have come to the conclusion that the Committee has improved the presentation of its financial statements, but better reporting of contingent obligations at national level is necessary.
We are also publishing an annual report on the annual accounts of European schools.
Our review of the financial statements for 2018 showed a significant error rate for one of the 13 European schools.
On the way to e-control, Digitisation is about exploiting the potential of technology to provide more and better information in the accountability process.
Digital changes are also important for our examination work and organizations.
We have set up a Steering Committee on Digitisation, composed of five members, to manage the changeover process in the coming years.
As the first important audit initiative, we launched a pilot test in 2019 to automate the audit of executive agencies' accounts.
As part of this pilot test, we will simultaneously use traditional and digital tools 29.
Opinions Opinions: a contribution to better lawmaking One way to strengthen the Commission's approach to better lawmaking is to publish an opinion on the Commission's proposals for new or revised legislation.
In the case of legislative proposals having a significant financial impact, the Court's opinions are required under EU law.
In addition, other institutions may ask us to give an opinion on specific issues.
Our opinions will be forwarded to the European Parliament and the Council.
In 2019 we issued three opinions: on the proposal for a European Union Office for Intellectual Property, the proposal for a Financial Regulation of the Single Committee for Restructuring and Resolution and the proposal for a Financial Regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office.
Our comments on the new Multiannual Financial Framework at the beginning of 2019 also published a summary of the ECA's comments on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2021-2027.
This summary focuses on the proposed procedure for setting priorities for EU spending, flexibility of the EU budget, focus on results and simplification of governance, as well as accountability and audit principles.
This analysis was mainly based on several opinions on the Commission's proposals that we issued in 2018, but also on our latest thematic documents and other reports on EU funding.
We have achieved a relatively balanced number of publications throughout the year, reaching a climax in October when we issued our annual reports.
31 32 Combating fraud to the detriment of the EU's financial interests The Administrative Agreement signed with OLAF The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) is at the forefront of the fight against fraud to the detriment of the EU's financial interests.
We have adopted detailed guidelines for managing the risk of fraud for our auditors.
We provide OLAF with any suspicion of fraud or any other illegal activity that may affect the financial interests of the EU that arise during our audit work or which are reported to us.
These matters shall then be dealt with by OLAF, which shall decide on a possible investigation and, if necessary, cooperate with the authorities of the Member States.
In 2019 we also signed an administrative agreement setting out the operational rules for our cooperation with OLAF, including coordination of training, workshops and staff exchanges.
10 cases of alleged fraud were addressed to OLAF We are the external auditors of the EU.
Our attempts are not specifically designed to detect fraud.
However, our auditors regularly identify a number of cases where they suspect that they are engaged in fraudulent activities.
In 2019 we sent to OLAF 10 alleged fraud cases (2018: nine cases) from which we took note in the course of the audit and two cases following guidance from third parties.
Further information on the nature of suspected fraud and its recovery, as recommended by OLAF, is provided in our annual report on the EU general budget.
In 2019 we also published two special reports, which are closely linked to the fight against fraud in EU expenditure: Special Report No 01/2019 Fight against fraud in EU expenditure: Action needs to be taken and Special Report No 06/2019 Fight against fraud in EU expenditure: Managing authorities need to step up detection, response and coordination.
33 Finally, we dedicated a special edition of the ECA Journal to combat fraud and corruption and to protect the EU's financial interests.
Focusing on the UN Sustainable Development Goals at the heart of our audit work In recent years, when we have focused on environmental and climate issues, sustainability issues have become extremely important.
In 2019 our sustainable development work was complemented by an analysis of the report on sustainable development.
This analysis included an overview of how the EU institutions could publish sustainable development information and their contribution to the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
In addition, we have organised an ESRB conference on sustainable development in order to raise awareness of this topic and bring together important stakeholders.
In July, we took part in a meeting of the ORKB presidents and stakeholders on "OrkB to move something: a study on the implementation of the SDGs" at the UN political forum at a high level under the 2030 Agenda.
Finally, we published a special edition of the ECA journal on SDG.
Audit Team: study on Sustainable Development Report: summary of EU institutions, bodies and agencies.
Institutional relations A constant increase in the presentation to the European Parliament, the Council and national parliaments We work closely with the European Parliament (EP), the Council and national parliaments in the Member States, because the impact of our work depends to a large extent on the benefits these institutions bring from our audit results and recommendations.
Our audit reports will be presented to the relevant European Parliament committees and Council working parties.
In addition, we present our annual reports, as well as our special reports and analyses to national Parliaments.
In 2019 the presentation of our reports to these institutional addressees increased even more, mainly due to the significant increase in the presentation to national parliaments.
At the same time, as a result of the parliamentary break from mid-April to September 2019, fewer presentations were held before the European Parliament. 34
The meeting with the newly elected Presidents of the EU institutions in 2019 was the year of change at the head of many EU institutions: after their election, our President met with the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council.
35 President EuRH Lehne, together with the President of the European Parliament David Sassoli, President of the Ursula Commission with Leyen and President of the Council Charles Michel.
The European Parliament Our members and control teams shall be regularly invited by the committees and bodies of the European Parliament, and in particular by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
As a result of the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019, there were special conditions as Parliamentary committees held meetings in mid-April and then resumed in September.
We presented 14 committees with 31 special reports and 10 analyses (2018: 39 reports and 14 committees).
After the elections, we launched an awareness-raising campaign to inform Members of the European Parliament of our activities as an EU external controller.
We also organised a number of workshops for EP staff.
Finally, in October 2019 we created an information portal that will allow not only members of the EP but also the general public to have easier access to our reports. 36
The Council of the European Union In 2019 our control teams presented 22 Council working groups and two committees of 26 special reports (2018: 40 reports and 27 working groups).
We also presented two analyses: one for the Committee on Budgets at the informal Council meeting in Romania and the other for the Working Group on the 2030 Agenda.
We were also involved in an exchange of views with the Financial Services Commission on the agreement with the European Central Bank and with the Budget Committee on our draft budget for 2020 and in December 2019 we presented our work programme for 2020.
In October 2019 the President of the Eurogroup visited us to discuss the current state and future reforms of the Economic and Monetary Union and our potential contribution to financial and economic governance in the EU.
In addition, the president of the Eurogroup Working Group met with our members in May 2019.
Member State governments and national parliaments More speeches in national parliaments Our Members regularly visit national parliaments and governments.
In 2019 we presented 90 presentations in 21 Member States (2018: 50 presentations in 14 Member States).
This is the highest number of 37.
The European Commission Exchange of views with our authorities at the highest level For years, it has been common practice that our members hold annual meetings with their counterparts in the Commission.
These meetings provide an opportunity to sum up and consider ways to further improve our cooperation.
The European Central Bank This tradition continued in June 2019 when President Jean-Claude Juncker invited our members to exchange views with the College of Commissioners in Brussels.
In October 2019 we signed an agreement with the European Central Bank which sets out practical rules for the exchange of information on the supervisory activities of the European Central Bank for our auditors.
Cooperation with the Supreme Audit Authorities (ORKB) Contact Committee of the annual EU-ORKB meeting in Poland 2019 Our cooperation with EU-ORKB takes place primarily within the EU-ORKB Contact Committee.
This EU-ORKB network enables us to support the activities of independent external financial control in the EU and its Member States.
In June 2019 we took part in an annual meeting organized by ORB of Poland, which was also chaired by the Presidency.
The discussions focused on the challenges and opportunities of digital Europe for the EU-ORKB.
At this meeting, we took over the Chair of the Contact Committee, as we do every three years.
Meeting of the Contact Committee, Warsaw, June 2019. 39
The Internet portal "Public Financial Control in the EU" In January 2019 we launched a web portal on financial control in the European Union.
The portal shall provide information on the mandate, status, organisational structure, activity and performance of the EU's highest control authorities and Member States.
The Public Health Examination Compendium in the EU In December 2019, on behalf of the Contact Committee, we published a second examination compendium containing information on examinations conducted throughout the European Union in the field of public health.
The Compendium provides basic information on public health, its legal bases, its main objectives and related competences at Member State and EU level and presents the main challenges facing the EU and its Member States in this respect.
It is based on the current findings of the Court of Auditors and the European Court of Auditors from 23 EU Member States.
In 2019 we started preparatory work on the third audit compendium, which will be published in 2020 and will address the issue of cybersecurity 40.
INTOSAI continued to actively participate in the activities of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) in 2019, in particular as Vice-President of the Technical Standards Committee (since December 2016) and member of the Audit and Accounting Sub-Committee, the Sub-Committee for the Verification of Compliance with Legal Standards and the Economic Audit Sub-Committee.
We have also been involved in the activities and projects of other INTOSAI bodies, in particular in the field of environmental evaluation, large data collections, financial modernisation and regulatory reform, and in the evaluation of public policies and programmes.
We also participated in the INTOSAI Task Force on the Professionalisation of Auditors, the INTOSAI Development Initiative (IDI) and the ISSAI 200 Review Project under the aegis of the Audit and Accounting Sub-Committee.
INTOSAI (INCOSAI) Congress participates in September 2019 in Moscow.
Two main issues were discussed in detail during the conference: information technologies for the development of public administration and the contribution of the Committee of the Regions to achieving national priorities and objectives.
EUROSAI has also actively participated in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (EUROSAI), the European regional group INTOSAI, in particular its working groups on environmental assessment, IT audit and audit of civil protection assistance, as well as within the evaluation and ethics task force.
We also attended several workshops and seminars together with 14 other European Air Quality Councils and contributed to the publication of the Joint Air Quality Report. In October 2019 we organised the 17th annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment and the Joint Conference on Biological Diversity. Finally, we took part in the third joint EUROSAI-ASOSAI conference on new issues and emergency situations in Israel in March 2019 and in the first joint EUROSAI-AFROSAI seminar in Lisbon in November 2019 which took place in Portugal.
Annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment, October 2019
42 ORKB of applicant countries and potential applicant countries We also support ORKB of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo*, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey). This support is primarily provided through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through support for activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2019 10 ORKB controllers took part in our internship programme.
We have also taken an active part in network meetings and activities, including in the treatment of issues such as accounting principles with increased impact and digital control.
Mutual reviews of other EU-ORKB institutions The peer review shall be an external, independent verification of one or more elements of the organisation and/or functioning of the OPKB by a team of colleges from one or more monitoring committees.
It is not an exam, but an evaluation and advice from collegiate volunteers.
In 2019, under the direction of our secretary-general, the peer review team together with the ORB of Poland and the United Kingdom carried out a peer review of the ORB of Lithuania.
The main objective was to assess whether the audit practice of the Lithuanian ORB was in line with international audit standards.
In December 2019 the final report was submitted to the Parliament of Lithuania (Seimas). * This name does not affect positions on Kosovo's status and is in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the declaration of Kosovo's independence.
Our governance The members of the European Court of Human Rights act as a collegial body consisting of one member in each Member State.
Once appointed by the relevant national government, each Member shall be appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament.
We have no role in appointing and appointing members.
They shall make a solemn undertaking before the Court of Justice of the European Union at the time of their entry into office.
43rd meeting of the College of ECA Members in Luxembourg on 18 July 2019
In 2019 the Council appointed four new members of the Court: Violel Ştefan (Romania) from 1 July 2019 and Ivana Maletić (Croatia) from 15 July 2019 and Joëlle Elvinger (Luxembourg) and François-Roger Cazala (France) from 1 January 2020.
The Council also extended the terms of office of three members: Alex Brennankmeijer (the Netherlands), Nikolaos Millionis (Greece) and Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany).
Mr Phil Wynn Owen (UK) was a member until 31 January 2020.
In March 2020, after the appointment of Janusz Wojciechowski as a member of the European Commission in December 2019, a Polish member should be appointed and appointed.
21 meetings of the College of ECA Members took place in 2019 (2018: 18 times).
The President's remit shall include the institution's strategy, performance planning and management, communication and media work, relations with other institutions, legal issues and internal audit.
The President shall also represent the Court in all its external relations.
Members shall elect a President from among themselves for a period of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President and his re-election took place in September 2019.
President and Members 44 Note: State of March 2020
The examination chambers and committees Members belong to one of our five examination chambers, and most of our reports, analyses and opinions are prepared and adopted in these chambers.
Chambers shall be managed by doyen or doyenne chosen from among the members of the Chamber.
In December 2019 five examination chambers were led by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Millionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Alex Brennankmeijer and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Ms Danièle Lamarque was a member responsible for quality control in the field of control (until the end of her term of office in December 2019).
She chaired the Committee on Quality Control in the field of audit.
Chambers shall share their responsibilities among the members.
Each member shall be accountable to the Chamber and to the Court for his own control tasks.
Members shall be assisted by an office.
In addition to their role in the examination chambers, some members also took over other tasks: Oscar Herics led the ethical commission, Jereb himself dealt with the examination commission, Eva Lindström was the management committee for digitisation, and João Figueiredo was the strategy and perspective of the Consultative Committee.
Rimantas Šadžius was a member responsible for institutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members chaired by the Chair 45.
46 Our highest level of management is the Secretary-General and the Director-General.
In total, there are 10 Directorates: five of them belong to the Examination Chambers, one to the Audit Quality Review Committee, one to the President and three to the Secretary-General.
Our higher level of management Note: The state of March 2020.
Performance Measurements We use key performance indicators (KPIs) to inform our management about progress in achieving our strategic goals, supporting decision-making and providing our institutional addressees with information about our achievements.
These KPIs provide a comprehensive picture of how we organize our work in terms of dissemination, impact and perception.
In 2019, as planned, we publish 36 reports We monitor the number and timeliness of reports published throughout the year.
In 2019 we published 36 reports: 25 special reports and 11 analyses.
This corresponds to the number of publications provided for in the work programme.
The number of published special reports and analyses 47 In addition, we have issued six annual reports, three opinions, 18 audit forecasts and four other publications.
In total, we have prepared 67 publications during the year.
Media presence A constant increase in reporting on social media We follow media reports about our work and our institution, which may vary considerably depending on the subject and complexity of the report.
At the same time, external factors can have a major impact on media interest in our publications.
This may be the case, for example, if the date of publication of the report coincides with an important event or policy development, which may significantly increase the public interest in the matter.
In total, over 50,000 free online articles and posts were recorded in the social media in 2019.
49 In 2019 we discovered a significant increase in our contribution to social media, which is also due to the more active use of these communication channels during the year.
We strengthened contacts with the press In 2019 we strengthened contacts with the press and media.
We have done this by issuing about 61 press releases in 23 EU languages (2018: 76), as well as many short media messages and tips in certain languages; 25 press letters (2018: 20), including press letters on the sector and countries related to the annual report.
These press meetings usually take place in Brussels.
We have also received journalists working in Brussels and the Member States who have made on-site visits, and we have prepared several meetings on selected reports for industry stakeholders, NGOs and tankers.
Visit of journalists from Member States in Luxembourg in November 2019 50
A million visitors to our website in 2019 exceeded for the first time a million visits to our website.
In total, about 511,000 people visited us.
Read more We have been watching on social media All year round we had an increasing presence and involvement in social media, especially on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedInu, which are now an essential element of our communication activity and enable us to interact directly with citizens.
At the end of 2019, our three social media accounts registered approximately 29 500 observers (2018: around 22 500). 51
The impact and perception of our work 88% of stakeholders believe that our audit reports are useful.We assess the likely impact and purpose of our audit work on the basis of feedback from our stakeholders from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the EU agencies, the permanent representations of Member States, the public authorities of the Member States and the ORKB, non-governmental organisations, science, media and other parties.
Since 2018, we have been asking our stakeholders for an opinion on the selection of special reports and analyses and on the annual report through anonymous electronic surveys.
These studies will enable interested parties to provide feedback on the quality of the reports and to make general proposals on the Court's work.
Overall, 88% of respondents confirmed the relevance of our reports to their work in 2019 and 81% benefited them.
52 Continuing our recommendations Almost all our recommendations We will implement our recommendations on the basis of actions taken by our controllers.
In 2019 we analysed the recommendations made in our special reports published in 2015 and in the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 96% of the recommendations made by us in our 2015 Annual Report and 94% of the recommendations published in our 2015 Special Reports have been fully, largely or partially implemented 53.
Our employees held 853 permanent and temporary posts at the end of 2019 (2018: 853 posts), of which 534 in examination chambers, including 118 posts in the members' office.
54 Moreover, at the end of the year, the Court had 75 contract staff and 16 seconded national experts (76 and 15 respectively in 2018).
Recruitment Our recruitment policy is in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions.Our employees have a wide academic and professional environment.
In 2019 the Court had 77 staff (2018: 79 staff): 17 officials, 33 temporary staff, 21 contract staff and six seconded national experts.
In addition, we provided 55 traineeships (2018: 60) for university graduates for a period of between three and five months.
The age profile Almost three quarters (74%) of staff working at the end of 2019 are 40 to 59 years old.
55 More than half of our directors and managers are 50 years old or older.
Therefore, in the next five to ten years, when these workers retire, there will be a renewal of their management positions.
The Court ensures equal opportunities for its employees at all levels of the organisation of equal professional opportunities.
Overall, we have a balanced participation of women and men among our employees.
In 2019 about a third of our directors and managers are women.
57 Support for control activities Vocational training record number of training activities In 2019 we continued to diversify and expand the offer of training for our employees.
We have organised a record number of training courses, conferences, presentations and workshops on many topics.
We continued to provide financial support for employees to participate in courses and programmes for the acquisition or maintenance of professional qualifications and diplomas organised from external sources.
We have also started a management skills development program, which consists of courses, coaching and mentoring for employees who want to develop their management skills.
We supported staffing processes through training the newly created pool of professional advisors, mentors and internal intermediaries.
We crossed the limit of training days Once again we crossed the limit of days of continuing vocational training (5 days a year) as recommended by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).
On average, our auditors passed 7.5 days of training; our employees who did not work as controllers represented an average of 3.6 days of training.
Cooperation in Training In July 2019 the second Academy of Summer Financial Control and Public Responsibility on the Digitisation of Control took place at the University of Pisa.
We also continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine, where we offered the fifth edition of our post-graduate studies "Audit of Public Organisations and Police," which leads to the Master's title "Management of Public Organisations."
We also started a new postgraduate program "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit."
These programmes are now open to European Commission staff.
Finally, we have strengthened cooperation with the International NATO Control Committee (IBAN) in the field of training.
In May 2019 the Court held a workshop on the "Controlitation of the Union's Security and Defence Policy" during which Commission, NATO, the European Defence Agency, the Joint Defence Cooperation Organisation (OCCAR), the Athens Mechanism and several EU Supreme Audit Authorities met.
Launching ECAdema In addition, we have launched ECAdemy, a tool to enable us to exchange materials for courses, publish conference entries and organise webinars with those interested in public control in the EU and its Member States.
This e-learning platform is open to the public free of charge at https://ecademy.eca.europa.eu.
58 Sabine Chaupain-Guillot, Vice-President of the Lorraine University Training Committee, Lazaros S. Lazarou, EuRH member (February 2019).
Translation In 2019 we have translated and modified over 223 000 pages, including external orders (2018: 251 000).
We translate our publications into all the official languages of the EU.
We also translate our correspondence with the authorities of the Member States into their national language, in accordance with legal requirements.
Our translators are also often involved in our research, providing language support during inspection visits and reporting.
Information technology, work environment and innovation The transition to cloud-based services An important milestone is the transition to cloud-based services that provides an easy-to-use system for different end-users' applications (IT, personnel, office, security, etc.).
The new IT Security Action Plan has achieved a number of objectives, such as more effective and regular removal of software barriers, preventing unauthorised access to cloud services, monitoring information security management and improving security oversight capabilities.
Finally, an ambitious technical programme was introduced in 2019 to provide facilities and systems to enable all workers to operate more flexibly, e.g. office, teleconferences and mobile work.
New open access policy In 2019 we also adopted a new open data policy.
The re-use of documents and the process of sharing our data are determined in cooperation with the Publications Office 59.
ECALAB ECALAB, our interdisciplinary team of innovation lab, continued research into technologies such as text mining, artificial intelligence and process mining.
In 2019 ECALAB also started to support a number of control tasks.
An audit technology and innovation network In November 2019 at the "Big and open data" conference held in our premises in Luxembourg, we also set up an EU-ORKB audit technology and innovation network (TINA).
Big and open date conference, November 2019, Luxembourg.
In order to support the development of the European infrastructure for services blocking by the European Commission and the Member States on the basis of our "conceptual proof" another EU-ORKB network was set up in the field of blocking technologies in the control area 60.
The Farm Building currently has three buildings ("K1, "K2" and "K3"), which constitute one integrated technical unit.
K1 K1 building, opened in 1988, has office rooms for up to 310 staff and conference rooms.
There are parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses, library and main archives in the underfloor, while the entire top floor is used for technical installations.
Building K1 was modernised in 2008 in order to adapt it to national health, safety and environmental requirements.
As far as possible, the technology in building K1 has been adapted to ensure compatibility with buildings K2 and K3.
There are parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses and a fitness centre.
Other bullets are used in offices for up to 241 staff with conference rooms, conference room with translation cabins, video conferencing room, café and simple kitchen rooms.
We are currently modernising the K2 building to optimize the organisation of its working areas and update some technical devices.
A detailed analysis of this project was carried out in 2019 and work started at the end of the year.
As the European Parliament and the Council approved in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining budgetary resources under the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation 61.
There are parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses, unloading zones, waste storage facilities, printers, kitchens and archives.
In addition, this building includes offices for 503 staff, conference rooms and IT room.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) building K3 was rated as "very good" 62.
Further increasing our security measures In 2019 we have taken a number of measures to increase the safety of our buildings in Luxembourg.
These included the creation of a team of armed security personnel.
We have an agreement with the Luxembourg police, which allows us to use national training centres.
Furthermore, we have agreed with the European External Action Service that we will support our auditors in their visits to high-risk countries.
63 Eduardo Ruiz García, Secretary-General of EuRH and Helga Schmid, Secretary-General of the EEAS.
Environmental governance As an EU institution, we have a duty to respect the principle of sound environmental management in all activities.
We continue to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions and regularly analyse greenhouse gas emissions caused by our actions.
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 amounted to 10 178 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), a 3% decrease compared to 2017.
We are proud of our EMAS certification for environmental management and audit: we successfully run an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements set out in ISO 14001:2015.
In the last quarter of 2019 an external EMAS audit was carried out which led to the renewal of EMAS certification for the period 2020-2022.
New initiatives, such as the 'Be plastic European Court of Human Rights' initiative, are planned.
In 2019, in cooperation with the Luxembourg Ministry of Agriculture, we created four hives in our gardens.
Bees are supervised by volunteers.
We assume that this will have a positive impact on the sustainable development of pollinators in our surroundings 64.
The Court's liability The Court's financial information is financed by the general budget of the European Union and its budget falls within the scope of administrative expenditure.
For 2019, our budget was around EUR 147 million, of which 98% was used during the year.
This represents less than 0,1% of the total EU expenditure or around 1.5% of the total EU administrative expenditure.
Implementation of the budget 2019 65 10 in Part Members of the institution 11 324 20. Buildings 3 526 210 in Data processing and telecommunications 8 085 3 523 Use of appropriations in % of the budget 2019 Final appropriations Title 1: members and commitments 97 % 99 % Payment of staff of the institution (euro week) 11 004 10 963 12. Officials and temporary staff 107 367 14. Other staff and external services 6 6 683 10 434 99 10 106 434 434 4 • Travel costs 3 200 1 008 2 4 553 97, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 2 2 2 9,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
The 2020 budget for 2020 increased by 4.3% compared to 2019.
Budget 2020 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 volume 1 11 751 12 in tons of officials and temporary staff 111 860 14 To this end, other external staff and services 7 403 416 161 + 163 4 + 165 4 of which expenditure on missions 3 370 161 + 163 4 of which Other expenditure on staff and members of the institution 11 474 66 666 666 6 381 3 450 Total Title 1 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating expenditure 2 945 137 329 3 098 132 069 20 in Building 3 255 2 984 210 in the field of data and telecommunications 7 718 7 605 212 + 214 + 216 Furniture and related costs 963 998 23 of this year Administrative expenditure for action 563 25 in the framework of meetings and conferences 696 27 in the field of information and publication 2 613 Total Title 2 15 808 European Court of Auditors total 153 137 548 700 1 986 14 821 146 889
Internal audit and external audit Internal audit body shall advise the Court on issues relating to risk management.
It provides an independent and objective guarantee and advice to increase and improve the added value of the Court's activities.
In addition, they shall report to the Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee shall regularly monitor progress in the implementation of the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the internal audit body and ensure its independence.
In 2019 the Internal Audit Service carried out three selected tasks: "the risks and challenges of the Quality Control Committee in the field of audit', "the travel costs of high-level members and officials, the representation expenses of the members and the use of the Court's fleet' and "the Court's vocational training'.
In addition, our risk management strategy and three annual declarations of sub-delegated authorising officers have been examined.
In addition, the Internal Audit Department monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations, ensuring that the agreed action plans were implemented and advised on issues related to the Court's new internal control framework.
Our internal auditor did not demonstrate any shortcomings which, due to their nature or scope, could seriously undermine the overall credibility of internal control systems; the control systems were introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations in 2019.
External audit Our financial statements are audited by an independent external auditor.
We consider this assessment very important because it shows that we apply the same principles of transparency and accountability to each other as to the bodies we are investigating.
On 4 April 2019 the auditor's report PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à.r.l. on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2018 was published.
Opinion of the independent auditor on the Court's accounts for the financial year 2018 68: "After our assessment, the annual accounts shall provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2018 and the results of its transactions, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending that date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1), and in particular Article 2 (2) (b) and Article 2 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
(OJ L 362, 31.12.2012, p. 1) on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation and its subsequent amendments.';
Regarding the use of resources and the Court's audit procedure: "In the framework of our actions described in this report, we have not found any facts that would indicate that, in all relevant respects and taking into account the above evaluation criteria, the appropriations allocated to the Court were not used for specific purposes and, in the framework of the control procedures laid down, did not provide the necessary guarantee that the financial transactions were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
The discharge for the financial year 2017 Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In March 2019 the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2017.
As every year, we have carefully analysed all the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our responsibility for control and management, we have taken appropriate action and have informed the European Parliament in detail of our follow-up.
Mutual evaluation of our ethical framework Finally, in 2019 our ethical framework was subjected to an external expert assessment by ORB Poland and Croatia.
This report was finalised in January 2020 69
The statement by the authorising officer by delegation in accordance with Article 74 (9) of the Financial Regulation, the statement by the authorising officer by delegation, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares that the information contained in this report as well as the additional internal information relating to the performance of my duties, including financial and administrative information, including the results of the audits, are correct and accurate, and confirms with reasonable assurance that the appropriations made available for the actions described in this report have been used for the purposes provided for and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures are proportionate to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them and to the proper management of the allegations of fraud or fraud.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 March 2020.
The re-use of the following images is permitted with the name of the copyright holder, the source and, where appropriate, the names of photographers or architects: S. 2, © European Union, 2020, source: ESRB.
S. 6, 32, 33, 38 (down), 41, 42, 43, 50, 58, 60, 63 and 64, © European Union, 2019, Source: ECO.
S. 15, first row, on the right, © European Union, 2010 / Carlos Juan.
S. 15, Second Government, Mitte, © European Union, 2013, Source: EP / Bauweraerts Didier.
S. 17, © European Union, 2013, Source: EP / Jennifer Jacquemart.
S. 19, © European Union, 2015 / Angelos Tzortzinis.
S. 21, © European Union, 2016, Source: EP / Fred Marvaux.
S. 26, left, © European Union, 2019 / Anouk Delafortrie.
S. 26, Laws, © European Union, 2019, Lisa Hastert.
S. 28, © European Union, 2019, Source: EP / Benoit Bourgeois.
S. 35, left, © European Union, 2019, Source: EP (20191022_EP-093734A_DLL_007).
S. 35, Mitte, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission.
S. 35, Laws, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Council.
S. 38, above, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission, Audiovisual Service / Etienne Ansotte.
S. 62, © European Union, 2019, Source: ECO.
Building architects: Paul Noël (1988) and Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013).
If you want to use or play content in which the EU does not have copyright, you need to obtain permission directly from copyright holders: S. 7 and 8: Icons of pixel images perfect on the platform https://flaticon.com.
S. 12, from left to right: © contains modified data from Sentinel Copernicus (2018) processed by GeoVille; © Shutterstock / Andrey_Popov; © Shutterstock / G-Stock Studio.
S. 13, from left to right: © Shutterstock / Antonio Guillem; © Shutterstock / Gododenkoff; © Shutterstock / igorstevanovic.
S. 15, first row, left, © Shutterstock / Billion Photos; S. 15, first row, middle, © Shutterstock / Gorodenkoff.
S. 15, Second row, left, © Shutterstock / LMWH; S. 15, Second row, right, © Shutterstock / Photolines.
S. 15, last row, left to right: © Shutterstock / Syda Productions; © Shutterstock / Jenson; © Image courtesy of EUROCONTROL.
S. 18, © Shutterstock / Bannafarsai_Stock.
S. 20, © Shutterstock / pisaphotography.
S. 26, Mitte, © MCI Benelux, 2019.
S. 39, © NIK (Highest Chamber of Control), Warsaw, 2019.
Contact the EU Visit to the European Union there are hundreds of Europe Direct information offices.
Through this link you will find an information office nearby: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en Phone or e-mail Europe Direct answers your questions about the European Union.
Contact Europe Direct via a toll-free telephone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers collect fees however), its toll-free number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers charge fees), already via e-mail: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_de EU information The European Union can be found in all official languages: https://europa.eu/european-union/index_en EU publications at https://publications.europa.eu/en/publications.eu/en/publications.
If you wish several copies of free publications, please contact Europe Direct or the information office nearby (see https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1952 in all official languages, can be found in EUR-Lex: https://eur-lex.europa.eu Open EU data Through the open data portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp/en) the EU makes EU data collection available.
Data can be downloaded free of charge for commercial and non-commercial purposes.
ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 QJ-AA-20-001-DE-C
DE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2013 Brief information on the EU review Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2014 ISBN 978-92-872-0998-6 doi:10.2865/23970 © European Union, 2014 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
PL 2013 Brief information on the EU review Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
Preface by the President 02 Each year in November, the European Court of Auditors shall present the results of its annual audits of the EU's financial management in the previous financial year.
On the basis of the audit evidence obtained, the Court guarantees the reliability of the use of EU funds and stresses the extent to which the risk that EU funds have not been used correctly has been greatest.
The reports also contain recommendations on possible improvements in EU financial management.
In this way, the Court supports the European Parliament and the Council in reviewing EU expenditure and contributes to the effective performance of calculation duties towards EU citizens.
This Briefer information on the 2013 EU Review presents and explains the main findings in our 2013 Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget and the European Development Fund.
As in previous years, the reports show to what extent the bodies responsible for EU and national financial management have provided a reliable picture of the management of financial resources in their reports, ensured the application of EU financial rules and complied with the fundamental principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
2013 was the last year of the seven-year programming period and we publish our progress reports this financial year during a transitional period of major importance for the EU and its finances.
Our reports show that the new European Parliament and the new Commission are facing long-standing and new challenges of financial management and accountability in the current 2014-2020 programming period.
Continued emphasis on EU and national finances requires careful management and control of EU funds, as well as better forecasting of long-term financing needs.
In particular, in our reports, we stress that the Commission and the Member States' authorities should pay more attention to the need for EU funds to be used to achieve results that could not be achieved in an equally effective or otherwise effective way.
At the same time, the Court's audit results show that further action can and should be taken to ensure compliance with EU spending rules.
The Court will be pleased to take the opportunity to help the new European Parliament and the Commission address these and other problems related to financial management and calculation obligations at EU level.
To this end, on the basis of our audit experience, we have also prepared two Landscape analyses presenting the main challenges facing the EU in terms of calculation, auditing and financial management.
Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors
Heading 03 page 04 General results 04 Key conclusions 05 Correct use of EU 15 funds and achieving results 18 More information on revenue and expenditure areas 18 Revenue 20 Agriculture: Market support and direct payments 22 Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 24 Regional policy, transport and energy 26 Employment and social affairs 28 External relations, external assistance and enlargement 30 Research and other internal policies 32 Administrative and related expenditure 33 European Development Fund (EDF) 35 General information 35 Audit approach 37 Court of Auditors and its work
Overall results 04 Main conclusions Summary of the 2013 Statement of Assurance The European Court of Auditors (ECA) gives an opinion on the reliability of the European Union accounts for 2013.
General revenue for 2013 is legal and regular.
The total budgetary commitments for 2013 are legal and regular.
Payments for 2013 are largely affected by errors.
The Court therefore gives an incomplete opinion on legality and regularity.
The text of the Statement of Assurance is set out in Chapter 1 of the Annual Report for the financial year 2013. ο The Court estimates the error rate which measures the level of irregularities in 2013 at 4,7%. This value is close to the error rate for 2012 (4,8%) and is constantly above the materiality threshold of 2 %. ο Overall, the surveillance and control systems examined have been effective in relation to differences in the quality of payments between Member States compared to error rates. ï The most defective were the two areas of expenditure: regional policy, transport and energy with an error rate of 6,9% and rural development, the environment, fisheries and health with an error rate of 6,7%.
Total shared management, including agriculture: market support and direct payments and employment and social affairs, resulted in an estimated error rate of 5.2 %. ο Recovery and recovery by Member States' authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Overall results 05 Appropriate use of EU funds EU funds for 2013. Each year the Court reviews EU revenue and expenditure and takes into account whether the annual accounts are reliable and whether revenue and expenditure operations comply with rules and regulations.
In 2013, expenditure from the EU budget amounted to EUR 148.5 billion or around EUR 290 per citizen.
These expenditures account for about one percent of the EU's gross national income and account for about two percent of the total public expenditure of the EU Member States.
The EU budget is adopted annually by the European Parliament and the Council on the basis of a seven-year financial framework.
It is first of all the Commission's responsibility to ensure that budgetary resources are spent correctly.
In the case of around 80% of expenditure, in particular in the field of agriculture and cohesion, the Commission shares this task with EU Member States.
Where's the money coming from?
The EU budget is financed from different sources.
The largest part is payments made by Member States on the basis of their gross national income (EUR 110,0 billion).
Other sources include payments made by Member States on the basis of VAT (EUR 14.5 billion) and agricultural duties and duties (EUR 15.4 billion).
The annual EU budget is spent in a number of policy areas (see Figure 1).
Payments are intended to support different activities, such as research projects, unemployment training or agricultural production.
Total results 06 Expenditure 2013 6,9% Administrative and related expenditure 8.9% Research and other internal policies 9.4% Employment and social affairs 9.9% Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 4.2 % External relations, external assistance and enlargement 2013 EUR 148.5 billion 30.4 % Regional policy, transport and energy 30.3% Agriculture: Market support and direct payments Audit findings 2013 The key element of the Court's audit work is the control of samples of transactions taken from all parts of the EU budget in order to obtain statistical estimates of the level of errors in income and various expenditure areas.
The 2013 results are summarised in Figure 2.
For more information on the Court's approach to checking and assessing the most likely error rate, see page 35.
Audit of transactions for the EU budget as a whole - Results for 2013. Verified amount and most likely error rate Revenue Audit result 0.00% 4.7 % 150 billion EUR No errors were made to a large extent EUR 0 30 billion EUR 60 billion EUR 120 billion % Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on quantification errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Figure 2 Figure 1
Overall results 07 In 2013, the Court concluded that revenue was not significantly affected by errors.
For the general budget of expenditure, the estimated error rate is 4,7%, leading to a wrong opinion on the regularity of expenditure (see page 36 for an explanation of the concept of "regularity").
For more information on specific expenditure areas, see pages 18-34 and the corresponding chapters of the annual report for the financial year 2013.
The audit of transactions in the various areas of EU spending in 2013 The found amount and most likely error rate in 2013 6,9% 3,6% 3,6% 6,7% 4,6% 2,6%Employment and social affairs reports Much of the lack of errors in regional policy, transport and energy The conclusion of the agricultural audit: market support and direct payments for rural development, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and extension of administrative expenditure and related expenditure EUR 1,0% 0 10 billion EUR 20 billion EUR 40 billion EUR 50 billion The most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on the quantification errors identified in the statistical sample of transactions) Note: The Court uses standard statistical methods to estimate error (see Annex 1.1 to Chapter 1 of the annual report). % Results of analysis 08 Analysis of audit results The Court estimates the error rate which measures the level of irregularities in payments for 2013 at 4.7 %.
This figure is close to the 2012 error rate (4,8%) and is constantly above the materiality threshold of 2 % (see Figure 4). Estimated error rate for the EU budget overall (2007-2013) EU expenditure 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 6,2% 5,8% 4,8% 4,7% 3,3% 3.7 % 3,9% 2007 2008 Upper error limit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 % Estimated error rate Lower error limit Note: The Court uses standard statistical methods to estimate the most likely error rate.
The Court is 95 percent sure that the error rate for the population falls from the lower error limit to the upper error limit.
For details see Annex 1.1 and Figure 1.3 of Chapter 1 of the annual report.
Overall results 09 Errors, waste and abuse The Court estimates the error rate is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste.
It is a source of funds that could not be paid because they were not used in accordance with the applicable rules.
Typical errors include payments for ineligible expenditure or purchases for which procurement rules have not been correctly applied.
Fraud is a deliberate fraud aimed at obtaining benefits.
The Court shall refer the cases under scrutiny and suspected fraud to OLAF (the Anti-Fraud Office of the European Union), which shall be responsible for carrying out any further investigations in cooperation with the authorities of the Member States.
A comparison of the estimated error rates for the different expenditure areas is shown in Figure 5.
Greater amounts in the field of research and other internal policies and administrative and related expenditure have been offset by lower amounts in the field of rural development, the environment, fisheries and health and external relations, external assistance and enlargement.
As in 2012, two areas of expenditure: regional policy, transport and energy and rural development, the environment, fisheries and health were most flawed.
These two areas, together with the other two areas of shared management (farming: market support and direct payments and employment and social affairs), show an estimated 5.2% error rate.
For all other operational expenditure (mainly managed directly by the Commission), the estimated error rate was 3.7 %.
Moreover, the Court noted an estimated error rate of 1,0% in administrative expenditure.
Total results 10 Comparison of estimated error rates in the different areas of EU spending for 2012 and 2013 8% 6% 4% 2% 0 6,8 % 6,9 % 6,9 % 2012 7,9% 3,3% 3,2 % 3,1 % 4,6 % 3,3% 3,3% 0% 2,6% 0% 1.0 % regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Employment and social development of rural areas, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and extension of administrative expenditure and related expenditure on graph 5
General results 11 Breakdown of the estimated overall error rate by expenditure area and error category Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Social research and other internal policies External research, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related 4.7% Error declarations on agricultural land Serious infringements of public procurement rules Unqualified projects, actions or beneficiaries Inclusion of ineligible costs in 1.8% of the statement of expenditure % Estimated error rate for the EU budget Total % Share in total error rate (in percentage points) 2.1% 1.1% 0.7% Other error types 0,3% 0.3% 0.1% 0.2% Total error rate 0.6% 1,0% 1,1% Share in estimated total error rate by type of error by breakdown of expenditure 6
Overall results 12 The Court analyses the contribution of different types of errors and expenditure areas to the estimated overall error rate (see Figure 6).
Expenditure which did not meet the necessary conditions for the implementation of projects financed by the EU accounted for the largest part of the estimated total error rate (including ineligible costs in the statement of expenditure: 39% or 1.8 percentage points of estimated total error rate).
In the second place were projects for which the financed facility/activity or beneficiary could not be financed in accordance with the applicable rules (unqualified projects/actions or beneficiaries: 22% or 1.1 percentage points of estimated total error rate).
As the largest area of expenditure, which still has the highest estimated error rate, regional policy, transport and energy make a major contribution to the estimated overall error rate (44% or 2.1 pro-points of the estimated overall error rate).
Agriculture: market support and direct payments, where the level of expenditure was almost the same, contribute by half to the estimated overall error rate.
Corrective measures have a positive impact on the level of error in the Member States and the Commission by applying corrective measures to protect the EU budget in the case of ineffective control systems or irregular expenditure.
If such corrective action had not been taken with regard to the 2013 payments audited by the Court, the estimated total error rate instead of 4,7 % would have been 6,3 %.
However, the estimated error rate could be further reduced by better application of existing control systems and corrective actions.
The Court found that, in the case of a significant proportion of shared management errors, Member State authorities had sufficient information to detect and correct errors before submitting a request for reimbursement to the Commission.
For example, this would reduce the estimated level of error in regional policy, transport and energy from 6.9% to 3.9%, in rural development, the environment, fisheries and health from 6.7% to 2.0%, and in employment and social affairs from 3.1% to 1.9%.
New challenges related to the presentation of reliable financial information There is no clear distinction between the main types of corrective corrections in the reports on the above corrective corrections, and this information is transmitted to a large extent outside the accounting system.
This hinders more in-depth analysis and reduces the accuracy of the data contained in the financial statements and financial statements.
Another change is the increasing use of financial instruments supporting investment in potentially viable projects in the form of loans, guarantees, equity and other risk mechanisms.
Due to the complexity of financial instruments, their assessment and registration require particular care in accordance with international public sector accounting rules.
Overall results 13 The continuous increase in amounts to be financed from future budgets One of the main elements of EU budgetary and financial management in 2013 is: ο a significant increase in the amount of payments that the Commission could make under the amending budgets: 9.6% of the original budget; ο a steady increase in commitments that in the future lead to payments (by 2.6%) despite the high level of payments; ο a long period (on average over two years) between the date of the initial budget commitment and the date of adoption of the statement of expenditure by the Commission; ο only 37 % of the appropriations allocated to financial instruments were paid to final beneficiaries at the end of 2012; ο payments, interest and dividends of EUR 259 million which have accumulated since 2008 have not been included as revenue.
What are commitments and payments?
The EU budget consists of two elements: commitments (amounts to be paid in the current year or in the coming years) and payments (fulfillment of payments in the current year).
Payments may only be made in respect of important budgetary commitments.
The annual ceilings for commitment and payment appropriations are set out in the multiannual financial framework agreed by the Council and Parliament.
The nature of EU spending programmes, in particular the long period between commitment and payment, puts increasing pressure on future payment budgets.
This shows a much higher payment budget in 2013 and this trend will continue similarly in future budgets.
General results 14 How the Court considers that the Commission should publish more detailed information on the functioning of corrective mechanisms (period, origin and type) and the accuracy of figures by collecting information under traditional accounting systems; ο shall record and evaluate all financial instruments and financial instruments in accordance with internationally recognised accounting rules for the public sector, in particular by means of reliable procedures for determining and recording impairments; ο shall provide information on the cash that is held to be paid to final beneficiaries; ο shall draw up and publish a long-term forecast of the cash flows that is updated annually, which would make it easier for interested parties to identify future payment needs and to identify budgetary priorities.
Full information on the main findings of the audit can be found in Chapter 1 of the Statement of Assurance and its related comments in the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
The overall results of 15 EU funds and their implementation should be used in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (savings, efficiency and effectiveness).
In order to achieve good results, funds are needed (financial, human, material, organisational or regulatory), results (to be achieved under the programme), results (direct changes in the programme among directly involved entities or beneficiaries) and impacts (long-term social changes, at least partly linked to EU action).
The Court assesses these aspects in its economic audits.
The effectiveness of the use of EU funds in the 2007-2013 programming period, as well as compliance with the rules and not good results, is not given sufficient attention.
For example, when selecting projects to be financed by the EU, there was a need to use the available EU funds and, secondly, to comply with the rules and, to a certain extent, to achieve results and impacts.
This focus on results is a key weakness in the way a large part of the EU budget is built.
In the Commission's view, for the 2014-2020 programming period, more emphasis is placed on mitigating impacts, with the main incentives being performance-related provisions.
With these reserves, the Commission will retain 6% of the resources allocated to individual Member States until the results are considered satisfactory.
In practice, however, input and output indicators will remain largely responsible for the release of funds.
The result indicators will only be used by the Commission in certain areas.
The more efficient functioning of performance-related reserves will depend on how effectively the Commission will negotiate the relevant objectives and stages at the beginning of the programming period, and on obtaining accurate, reliable and up-to-date data from Member States to determine whether these objectives have been achieved.
The reporting framework is not appropriate for the desired culture of results Reporting on results is divided into several general reports at the level of the general budget.
These reports do not provide information on progress towards the Europe 2020 objectives or a full review of the results of EU added value.
However, the fourth evaluation report is a step in the right direction as it tries to link the main financial programmes with the available information on the results that are relevant for the Europe 2020 strategy.
At the level of each Commission Directorate-General, the performance targets for each policy area are set out in the management plans and then presented in the annual activity reports.
The Court's analysis of the management plans and annual activity reports of the Commission Directorates-General has shown that the assurance of reliability is limited to the aspects of internal regularity and control and that it does not take account of performance aspects.
Moreover, the objectives are too general to be used for management purposes and the selected indicators are not always capable of measuring results.
Overall results 16 The added value of EU spending is not always demonstrated In 19 special reports adopted by the Court in 2013, the performance control discussed a wide range of issues and assessed whether the EU intervention was carried out in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (savings, efficiency and effectiveness).
The Court examined the conclusions of its special reports adopted in 2013 in order to prepare new programmes and projects for the 2014-2020 programming period and concluded that EU added value could not always be guaranteed. ο In many cases, side effects were possible, i.e. that beneficiaries carried out activities without EU support.
Example: The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) provides compensation to workers affected by collective redundancies.
The Court found that a third of the financial resources would be used for actions that would still be paid by Member States (Special Report No 7/2013 on the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, in which reintegration of redundant workers would bring EU added value?
For example, the Commission's Risk Sharing Finance Facility has not sufficiently demonstrated that EU funding under the Risk Sharing Finance Facility (the financing instrument aimed at facilitating access to debt financing in the field of research) leads to more investment than would have been made by beneficiaries without public funding (Special Report No 2/2013 (Did the Commission ensure the effective implementation of the Seventh Framework Programme for Research?)
Overall results 17 Most of the Court's recommendations have been implemented Follow-up of the Court's recommendations made as a result of performance checks is a key element of the accountability cycle and can contribute to the effective implementation of the recommendations contained in the reports by the Commission.
The Court examined how the Commission's recommendations in the eight special reports adopted in 2007-2010 had been further examined and concluded that the Commission had implemented 79% of the recommendations in full or to a large extent.
The Court recommends the Commission: ο The Commission should improve the reporting framework for the next revision of the Financial Regulation. ο The Commission should ensure that the evaluation report contains a summary of all available information on progress made towards the Europe 2020 objectives. ο The Commission should further develop its performance and reporting management system so that it can take responsibility for sound financial management and the EU budget's contribution to political success.
Full information on the Court's evaluation of the results can be found in Chapter 10 of the EU budget and in the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
All special reports are available on the Court's website: http://www.eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/AuditReports Opinions.aspx.
The contributions calculated on the basis of the gross national income (GNI) of the Member States or the VAT collected by the Member States represented 74% and 10% of the revenue in 2013 respectively.
Import duties and the sugar production levy collected by the Member States' authorities on behalf of the EU accounted for 10% of EU revenue and the remaining 6% of other revenue.
Explanations on the assessment of EU revenue The EU revenue based on GNI and VAT shall be calculated on the basis of macroeconomic statistics and estimates provided by the Member States.
The Court's audit of the regularity of the underlying transactions refers to the processing of these data by the Commission and not to the preliminary collection of those data by the authorities of the Member States.
Consequently, the Court's request concerns the impact of any errors made by the Commission on the total amount of revenue.
As regards duties, the Court examines how the Commission deals with the information provided by the Member States on the rights established.
These data are not sufficiently harmonised among the Member States.
The reservation is an instrument allowing the possibility of correction to be disclosed in respect of a given GNI element transmitted by a Member State.
There is a general reservation for Greek GNI data for 2008 and 2009 as these data are still based on preliminary estimates.
This aspect is part of the problem that concerns Greece's national accounts.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 19 The customs authorities of the Member States shall carry out checks to verify that importers comply with customs and import rules.
The Court found that the quality of the checks was very diverse in the Member States visited.
This may lead to a decision by importers to notify goods in a Member State other than that in which they are established in order to reduce the likelihood of controls and hinder the collection of charges due.
For example, an importer who released Chinese textile products in Hamburg (Germany), transported them to Rotterdam, where they were declared for free circulation, and then sold them to Poland for final sale.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission: ο Commission should aim to harmonise the methods for calculating business data which is not observed. ο Commission should draw up a detailed action plan containing clear steps and closely monitor its implementation in order to address the problems of preparing Greece's national accounts. ο Commission should set minimum standards for controls carried out by the customs authorities of the Member States in order to ensure a more targeted focus on high-risk importers. Do you want to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU revenue can be found in Chapter 2 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
20 This expenditure area includes the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF), one of the two main instruments of the EU's common agricultural policy.
The aim of this policy is to increase agricultural productivity, ensure an adequate standard of living for the rural population, stabilise markets, supply and supply at reasonable prices for consumers.
Expenditure shall be managed shared with the Member States.
Yes Estimated error rate: 3.6 % (2012): 3.8 %) Audited control systems: Effective according to the circumstances Most of the expenditure in this area is calculated on the basis of agricultural land.
Many quantifiable errors are the result of inaccuracies in the applications of the beneficiaries, most of which are excessive surface data (see example).
Example: Transparent declarations of ineligible land In Germany, Ireland, Greece, France, Poland and Romania* certain areas considered to be permanent grassland for which payments were actually wholly or partly covered by non-qualifying vegetation (trees or bushes).
For these ineligible areas, Union aid could not be paid.
In Greece, this error occurred because these areas were classified as eligible grassland and were appropriately included in the identification system for agricultural parcels. * Note relating to Member States in examples: the sampling method applied by the Court is not examined annually in each Member State, beneficiary country or region.
Examples of errors are designed to illustrate the most common types of errors.
They do not give rise to conclusions on the Member States, beneficiary countries and/or regions concerned.
For all direct aid schemes EAGF, beneficiaries of EU aid are legally obliged to comply with existing environmental, human, animal and plant health and animal welfare obligations, as well as with the protection of land in good agricultural and environmental condition.
If farmers fail to comply with these obligations, their aid shall be reduced.
In the course of the audit, the Court found a breach of rules in 25 percent of the transactions related to those obligations.
In the event of a significant number of errors, the authorities of the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before applying for a refund to the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before reporting Commission expenditure, the estimated error rate in this respect would have been 2,5%.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 21 The Court's examination of integrated management and control systems (IACS) in four Member States (German-speaking countries, Ireland, France and Italy) revealed shortcomings in the management and quality control procedures for databases in three Member States (Ireland, France and Italy), ο shortcomings in the quality of on-the-spot checks in two Member States (Germany and Italy), ο shortcomings in the procedures for recovering amounts unduly paid in two Member States (Ireland and Italy).
Despite the deficiencies identified during the checks, the HACCPs generally contribute significantly to preventing errors in the expenditure covered by the scheme.
In the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 or later, producer groups in the fruit and vegetables sector may receive EU aid.
The recognition as a producer group must meet certain conditions concerning the number and relative size of the members.
The Court found that nine of the 40 sampled producer groups in Poland did not meet these conditions.
In its 2013 Annual Activity Report, the Commission raised a reservation concerning a risk amount of 25% of the total expenditure incurred in relation to the action in Poland.
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations: ο The Commission and the Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that the potential of the HSCs is fully exploited: for this purpose they should, for example, ensure that the eligibility and size of agricultural parcels are properly assessed and registered. ο The Commission should monitor corrective actions related to shortcomings in EU aid to producer groups in Poland. Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure on market support and direct payments in agriculture can be found in Chapter 3 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
22 This area of expenditure covers the policy areas "Rural Development" in the period 2000-2007, "Climate and environmental policy," "Maritime" and "Fishing" in the period 2000-2007 and "Health and consumer protection" in the period 2000-2007.
88% of payments in this area come from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
Expenditure shall be managed shared with the Member States.
The EAFRD co-finances rural development expenditure under the relevant Member States' programmes.
Expenditure includes area measures (e.g. agri-environment payments and compensation for farmers in areas with natural handicaps) and activities not related to areas (e.g. modernisation of agricultural holdings and service infrastructure to provide basic services to the economy and the rural population).
Thus Estimated error rate: 6,7% (2012: 7,9%) Audit systems examined: Effective according to the circumstances Most errors were due to non-compliance with eligibility conditions, in particular the following conditions: agri-environment commitments (see example), specific requirements for investment projects and public procurement rules.
Example: Non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments The farmer in Sardinia in Italy received compensation for not using environmentally harmful plant protection products for artichoke cultivation.
During the on-the-spot check, the Court found that the beneficiary had used such plant protection products 12 times during the period considered.
Consequently, the aid could not be paid.
Similar cases of non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments were also detected in the Piemonte region (Italy) and Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland and Romania.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 23 In the case of a significant number of errors, Member State authorities had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before submitting a request for reimbursement to the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before reporting expenditure to the Commission, the estimated error rate in this respect would have been 2.0%.
The Court's analysis of rural development control systems showed that: ο shortcomings in the checks on eligibility conditions, e.g. non-detection of VAT amounts or double-financing risk (in seven of eight Member States surveyed: Germany, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Malta, Romania and Slovenia; Poland was the exception); ο insufficient assessment of the reliability of costs (in all four Member States surveyed: Italy, Lithuania, Poland and Romania); ο shortcomings in shaping and implementing cross-compliance controls (in all four Member States surveyed: in the Czech Republic, Spain, Italy and Malta); ο insufficient assessment of the reliability of costs (in all Member States: in Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy and Malta), in accordance with cross-compliance obligations, beneficiaries must meet specific conditions such as environmental and social standards to qualify for aid; ο shortcomings in the controls on public procurement rules (in all Member States examined: in Italy, Latvia and Poland; see example).
Example: Insufficient control by a Member State of public procurement rules In Latvia, the paying agency benefited from EAFRD assistance of EUR 2 million to finance the external IT system that was subject to public procurement rules.
The Court found that there were numerous serious errors in the procurement of the IT system and in the subsequent stages of data collection.
For example, instead of an open or restricted procedure, the paying agency applied the negotiated procedure in accordance with the law.
Due to non-compliance with the required procedures, expenditure is not eligible for EU funding.
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations on rural development: ο Member States should improve the implementation of existing administrative controls by using all relevant information available to paying agencies.
In this way, most errors could be detected and corrected. ο Member States should ensure that action plans aimed at countering the high estimate of economic activity in the field of rural development cover all regions and take into account all activities, in particular investment activities and take into account the Commission's and Court's audit findings. Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU rural development expenditure, the environment, fisheries and health can be found in Chapter 4 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More information on revenue and expenditure in the area of regional policy, transport and energy As part of our audit, 24 this audit concerned regional policy (i.e. 96% of payments in this area of expenditure), financed mainly from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (FS).
Regional policy aims to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the European Union by reducing disparities in development between different regions.
Expenditure on regional policy actions shall be managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States, with projects co-financed by approved expenditure programmes.
The remaining 4% of expenditure audited concerns transport and energy policy.
Transport and energy policy aims to provide European citizens and businesses with safe, sustainable and competitive transport and energy systems and services.
These expenditure shall be managed directly by the Commission.
Thus estimated error rate: 6,9% (2012: 6,8%) Audit systems that have been examined: Depending on the circumstances, the Court found serious errors in the award of public contracts, which account for 39% of the error rate estimated by the Court.
The total value of contracts under 122 audited procurement procedures is estimated to be EUR 4.2 billion.
Example: Unjustified contracts for additional works at the airport passenger terminal in Germany were awarded free of charge to the original contractor.
These additional work was necessary because of the unfavourable preparation, planning and implementation of the project, not because of unpredictable circumstances.
In such cases, the award of a contract on a stand-alone basis is inadmissible and it was therefore necessary to publish additional work.
Similar cases where an unjustified award of the contract was made free of charge have been reported for projects in Belgium, the Czech Republic, other places in Germany and Spain, Italy and Sweden.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 25 The Court's auditors also check whether EU state aid rules are being complied with.
Illegal State aid confers an undue advantage on the beneficiaries and therefore affects the internal market.
The State aid errors represented 17% of the estimated error rate in this area (see example).
For example, State aid for a viable project for a small or medium-sized enterprise (SMEs) in Slovenia was granted for research and development in the automotive industry.
However, SMEs were wholly owned by large enterprises and engaged in research activities solely on their behalf.
Given that large companies are subject to stricter public funding rules, the company was not entitled to full financing.
Similar cases have been reported in Bulgaria and Hungary.
In the event of a significant number of errors, the authorities of the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct errors before submitting a request to the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before reporting expenditure to the Commission, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 3,9%.
The Court's auditors also found that financial instruments continued to increase the amounts of payments to final beneficiaries in 2013.
These funds support enterprises or urban development projects through capital investments, loans or guarantees.
The funds shall be made available after their legal structure has been established and subsequently used to support projects.
A total of some EUR 12.6 billion of financial instruments were created in 25 Member States.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο The Commission should require Member States, in their administrative declarations, to clearly confirm the effectiveness of the primary controls carried out by the managing authority and the certifying authority. ο The Commission should carry out a detailed assessment of the problem of primary controls carried out by public authorities in the Member States during the programming period 2007-2013. ο The Commission should examine the reasons for infringements of EU State aid rules. ο The Commission should limit persistent delays in paying EU funds through financial instruments. Do you want to know more?
Full information on the audit of EU expenditure in the field of regional policy, transport and energy by the Court can be found in Chapter 5 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More information on income and expenditure Employment and social affairs EUR 16.2 billion Our analysis 26 The audit concerned employment expenditure and social expenditure, which is part of the EU's cohesion policy.
The main objectives of spending in this area are to combat unemployment, develop human resources and promote labour market integration.
Employment and social policy is primarily implemented by the European Social Fund (ESF): 98% of payments made in 2013 in this area of expenditure have been paid by the Fund.
The ESF supports investment in human capital in the form of training and other employment activities.
At a private school in Portugal, the full remuneration of the school principal was imposed on the EU project, even though it was also responsible for other tasks.
Moreover, the ceiling for co-financing salaries is not taken into account.
Similar findings were also found for projects carried out in Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
In the event of a significant number of errors, the authorities of the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before submitting an application to the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before reporting Commission expenditure, the estimated error rate in this respect would have been 1.8%.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 27 On the recommendation of the Court and with a view to reducing the likelihood of errors and administrative burdens on project promoters, the use of lump sums and lump sums was extended in 2009 instead of reimbursement of actual costs.
During the audit carried out in 2013, the Court did not detect any quantification errors related to the application of lump sums and lump sums.
This means that projects whose costs are reported using such payment options are less defective.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο Commission should ask Member States to strengthen controls on public procurement rules, non-project costs or projects without EU added value. ο Commission should ensure that Member States address the problem that staff costs in EU projects are higher than those of projects financed by national funds. ο Commission should ensure that Member States take into account all simplification options provided for in the European Structural and Investment Funds Regulations 2014-2020.
Full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure in the field of employment and social affairs can be found in Chapter 6 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
28 This expenditure area covers expenditure on external relations, development and humanitarian aid and actions for candidate and candidate countries.
Development projects are scattered across more than 150 countries around the world and their size and experience vary in terms of implementing institutions.
The financing of projects from EU funds is subject to compliance with the conditions laid down in specific financial agreements, as well as to compliance with other rules such as tendering procedures and public procurement procedures.
The expenditures are managed directly by the Commission's Directorates-General not only by the Commission's central services in Brussels, but also by EU delegations in beneficiary countries, or jointly with international organisations.
Thus Estimated error rate: 2.6 % (2012): 3,3%) Audit systems under investigation: Effective according to the circumstances Most errors concerned ineligible expenditure incurred at the level of final beneficiaries, such as expenditure incurred outside the eligibility period, inclusion of ineligible expenditure in project expenditure (e.g. VAT, staff costs and general costs) and expenditure not documented by relevant evidence.
The Commission approved pre-accession expenditure for a total amount of EUR 150 million, although it was not confirmed by evidence that these expenditures had been incurred and qualified.
The amounts validated were based on the estimates of the mission's own and not on the costs incurred, paid and accepted which were supported by evidence.
Following the Court's detection of this systematic error, the Commission corrected these transactions in the accounts.
Example: Unrealised expenditure The Commission has signed an agreement on EUR 9.5 million with the UN Development Programme for Social Development in Moldova.
In 2013, the Commission adopted cost recovery agreements of EUR 1.8 million for which they had not yet incurred the underlying expenditure.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 29 The European Commission's Directorate-General for Cooperation EuropeAid manages the majority of EU expenditure in the field of external actions under the budget.
EuropeAid systems examined are assessed as partially effective.
In May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address major shortcomings.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο The Commission should ensure that employee instructions reflect that the final clearance of expenditure should be based solely on actual expenditure and not on its own estimates.
The Commission has already agreed to an appropriate change in its final clearance of expenditure procedure.
Full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure in the field of external relations, external assistance and enlargement can be found in Chapter 7 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
30 The main component of this expenditure area is research and innovation projects, which accounted for EUR 7.7 billion in payments in 2013.
Other internal policies include expenditure on a number of policy objectives, including education and culture, security, migration and action to address the effects of the financial crisis.
Most expenditure is directly managed by the Commission.
Yes Estimated error rate: 4,6% (2012): 3,9%) Audit systems examined: Effective Most payments in this area of expenditure are reimbursed by the Commission in the cost statements of projects by the grant beneficiaries.
Mistakes arise when securators report ineligible costs which the control systems do not detect before reimbursement by the Commission.
35% of the estimated error rate is due to incorrect or ineligible staff costs.
In this context, it should be mentioned, inter alia, the estimated and not the actual costs of staff and working hours that have not been allocated to the project.
In addition to non-compliance with expenditure rules, reimbursement of ineligible costs is also difficult to achieve effectively the policy objectives and therefore reduces the added value of EU support (see example).
For example, ineligible expenditure reduces the EU's added value by providing support to ensure effective and effective controls at the EU's external borders.
The Court examined a project in Spain to purchase four helicopters, which should be used in 75% for surveillance and control of external borders.
However, the Court found that this objective represented only 25% of the working time of the helicopter.
Therefore, the EU should have paid only 25% rather than 75% of the actual cost of the helicopter.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 31 Under the audit expenditure control system, the Commission monitors progress reports and statements of expenditure on funded projects before making payments.
The Court found that the Commission does not always apply the procedure in a uniform way, which could affect the effectiveness of the programmes and increase the administrative burden on beneficiaries.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο The Commission should provide the beneficiaries and authorities of the Member States with up-to-date, consistent and clear guidance on eligibility and control rules for new research programmes for 2014-2020 and other internal policies. ο The Commission should better adapt its control activities to the risks by focusing controls on high risk beneficiaries (e.g. less experienced beneficiaries of EU support) and reducing the burden of controls on low risk beneficiaries.
You want to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU research expenditure and other internal policies can be found in Chapter 8 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 32 Administrative and related expenditure EUR 10.6 billion Our control Administrative and related expenditure covers expenditure of EU institutions and other bodies.
This includes the Commission, Parliament, the European External Action Service (EEAS), the European Council and the Council of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the Data Protection Supervisor.
Staff expenditure (staff, allowances and pensions) accounts for 60% of the expenditure area and the remainder of expenditure on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology.
The results of the audits carried out by the Court in the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union will be discussed in the special annual reports, together with a summary.
Not Estimated error rate: 1,0% (2012): 0,0%) Tested control systems: Effective examination of most control systems showed no serious deficiencies.
However, the Court notes that payments for salaries and allowances made by the Commission and the EEAS are repeatedly committed, as well as the procurement procedures of the EU Delegations (under the EEAS) show shortcomings.
Our recommendations The Court recommends: the Commission and the EEAS should take further steps to ensure that parts of the personal files affecting the payment of salaries and allowances are up-to-date. The EEAS should support and direct EU delegations in the award of public contracts.
For full information on the audit of administrative expenditure and related expenditure by the Court, see Chapter 9 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More information on revenue and expenditure under the European Development Fund (EDF) €2.6 billion Under the EDF, the European Union allocates funds for development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and overseas countries and regions (OCTs).
The aim is also to promote sustainable development and the integration of ACP and OCT countries into the world economy.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States and are subject to financial rules and are managed by the European Commission outside the general budget of the EU.
The environment in which external assistance financed by the EFF is implemented is exposed to high risks, in particular because actions are geographically dispersed and partner countries do not have sufficient institutional and administrative capacity.
Our findings Reliability of the EDF accounts: the EDF's 2013 annual accounts contain significant errors in the assets and financial condition of the EDF, the results of its operations, cash flows and changes in net assets as a whole?
Not audited control systems: are the effective commitments of the EDF heavily affected by errors?
Thus estimated error rate: 3,4% (2012: 3,0%) Failure to comply with public procurement rules caused about half of the estimated error rate (see example).
Another important source of error is the lack of evidence to support expenditure.
For example, the Court examined the call for tenders for IT equipment for the Centre for Business Information which was financed under the aid scheme for micro-enterprises and small enterprises.
The examination shows that the contract was not awarded to the lowest bidder, although the lowest price was the award criterion.
This error was not detected by the controller who carried out the financial control of the programme in accordance with the relevant framework agreement with the Commission.
Further information on revenue and expenditure areas of the 34th EDF shall also be provided for budgetary support for which payments are made directly to the budget of the developing country, provided that specific conditions are met.
The Court found errors in transactions related to budget support for which compliance with the conditions was wrongly assessed and the wrong exchange rate was used to convert payments into local currency.
The European Commission's Directorate-General for Cooperation EuropeAid manages not only the majority of expenditure from the EU budget related to external assistance but also almost all expenditure financed under the European Development Fund (EDF).
EuropeAid systems examined are assessed as partially effective.
However, in May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address the main shortcomings identified.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο Commission should recover interest on pre-financing. ο Commission should review the quantitative benefits of the audits carried out. ο Commission should report on progress in implementing the action plan to address weaknesses in the control system.
Full information on the Court's audit of the European Development Fund can be found in the annual activity report under the eighth, ninth and tenth European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2013.
General information 35 The audit approach summarised in the Court's Statement of Assurance is based on objective evidence obtained in particular as a result of audits carried out in accordance with international audit standards.
The EU budget is complex.
The Commission's Directors-General shall each year make hundreds of thousands of accounting entries on which information from a number of different sources is based (including Member States).
It is also excellent to assess compliance with the principle of proportionality (e.g. ensuring the proper functioning of accounting procedures, as well as the correct collection and presentation of the accounting data obtained. ο Evaluation of the accounting system to determine whether it is a solid basis for reliable (full and accurate) data. ο Verification of the main accounting procedures to determine whether they are correct. ο Analytical audits of accounting data to determine whether they are consistent and reliable. ο Direct control of the sample of accounting records to determine whether the underlying transactions actually exist and are correctly recorded. ο Audit of financial statements to determine whether they are appropriate for the Court's auditors as a basis for detailed audits. ο General information 36 The accuracy of transactions is checked in the EU financial statements and payments included as expenditure.1 to determine whether the underlying transactions are carried out on the basis of the relevant rules. ο Statistical methods are taken from all parts of the EU budget as samples of transactions that serve as a basis for detailed audit. ο In order to verify whether the transactions covered by the sample are properly cleared in the EU financial statements and payments.1 to determine whether the underlying transactions are carried out on the basis of the basis of excellence, whether or on the basis of the basis of the ex-propect.............. context.................................................
1 Payments included as expenditure include interim payments, final payments and pre-financing.
During the implementation of the EU budget, millions of payments are made to beneficiaries in the EU and around the world.
Most of these expenditures are managed by Member States.
In order to obtain the necessary evidence, the Court carries out direct checks on revenue and expenditure - it makes payments and evaluates payment and control systems.
For more information on the verification process for the preparation of the Statement of Assurance, see Annex 1.1 to the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
General information 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is an independent audit body of the European Union based in Luxembourg.
It employs about 900 employees from all EU countries, including controllers and horizontal service staff.
Since its creation in 1977, it has increased the awareness and improvement of the EU's financial management.
The Court's audit reports and opinions are an important part of the EU's liability chain.
Our results will be used to hold the bodies responsible for EU financial management accountable, in particular under the discharge procedure.
This applies mainly to the Commission, but also to other EU institutions, bodies and agencies.
In the case of shared management, Member States also play an important role.
Our main tasks: ο audits of accounting and compliance checks, mainly with regard to the statement of assurance; ο audits of efficiency in matters selected in such a way that our work will have the greatest possible effect; ο opinions on financial management legislation and other important issues.
We are trying to use our resources in such a way as to strike a balance between the different areas of our activity in order to achieve sound results and adequately cover the different areas of the EU budget.
General information 38 Our results We will present the following results: annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund; annual reports mainly cover audit opinions within the framework of the Statement of Assurance and the results to be published each year in November; special annual reports containing audit opinions on the accounts of individual EU agencies and other bodies; in 2014 53 reports will be published; special reports on selected audit topics published during the year; these are mainly economic audits; in 2014 around 25 reports will be published; EU opinions to be used by the European Parliament and the Council for the adoption of EU legal acts having a significant impact on financial management; in 2014 six opinions will be published; ο analysis of selected EU policy areas to analyse major challenges and long-term trends; ο opinions to be published in 2014; ο annual activity report, information and clarifications on our activities.
Thanks to our work, we contribute to raising awareness of and transparency in EU financial management, ensuring certainty about the state of financial management and recommending further improvements.
This is in the interests of the citizens of the European Union.
Information on the audits carried out by the Court in the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union can be found in the relevant special annual reports for the financial year 2013, available on the Court's website.
The European Court of Auditors is an independent external audit body of the EU - guardian of EU finances In its annual reports on the EU budget and the European Development Fund, the Court gives an opinion (confidence certificate) on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This summary sets out the main findings and conclusions.
The full text of the reports is available on the Court's website and published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ("the Agency') established in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
The main task of the Agency shall be to assist national regulatory authorities in carrying out regulatory tasks in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, in coordinating the activities of those authorities.
Within the framework of the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation) 2, the Agency, together with national regulatory authorities, receives additional tasks to monitor the European wholesale energy market3.
Therefore, the period from 8 March 2011 to 31 December 2011 was reviewed for the 2011 financial year.
The audit approach includes procedures for analytical control, direct control of operations and evaluation of key controls of the Agency's supervisory and control systems.
1 2 3 OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
For information, the Annex summarises the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court examined the annual accounts4 of the Agency consisting of the "annual accounts"5 and the "budget implementation report"6 for the financial year ending 31 December 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
Responsibility of the management 5. Within the framework of the task of consulting the direct budget for revenue and expenditure, in accordance with the Agency's financial rules and within the framework of the appropriations allocated7.
The Director shall be responsible for establishing the 8th organisational structure and internal management and control systems and the procedures necessary for drawing up financial statements9, which do not contain significant, deliberate or unintentional false presentations 4 5 6 7 8 9 The annual accounts shall include a report on budgetary and financial management for the financial year in question containing additional information on budgetary and financial management.
The financial statements shall include a balance sheet and a statement of economic performance, a cash flow table, a table of changes in net assets and a summary of the basic accounting principles and other explanations.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
The responsibility of the controller is to make a statement on the reliability of the Agency's accounts and on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions on the basis of an audit carried out by the European Parliament and the Council10.
7.Reports ofaudits andcompatible with international audit standards andthe professional behaviour requirements of IFAC andthe International Standards ofthe Supreme Audit Authorities ofINTOSAI.
In accordance with these standards, the Court is required to plan and carry out audits in such a way as to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material false presentations and whether the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
8.The audit report shall include the execution of control activities in order to obtain evidence of the conduct of the study in relation to the value and other information contained in the financial statements, as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The choice of control activities shall be the responsibility of the controller, including in the risk assessment related to significant - intentional or unintentional - erroneous presentations during closure, and, where appropriate, intentional or unintentional infringements of European Union law in relation to the underlying transactions.
When assessing those risks, the controller shall take into account the internal control system relevant for the drawing up and presentation of financial statements and the 5 supervisory and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, in order to plan the control activities appropriate to the circumstances in question.
The assessment shall also include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting rules applied and the reasonableness of the calculated estimates in the financial statements, as well as an assessment of the overall financial statements.
9.Acknowledgment that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as a basis for the following opinions.
The Court's opinion on the reliability of the accounts10 Following the Court's assessment, the Agency's accounts11 shall, in all material respects, present the financial and assets situation of the Agency as at 31 December 2011 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year ending that date, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer12.
11 12 The final accounts were drawn up on 19 June 2012 and received by the Court on 2 July 2012.
The final accounts consolidated with the Commission's annual accounts shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 15 November of the following year.
The annual accounts are available at: http://eca.europa.eu or http://ww.acer.europa.eu/
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer shall be based on International Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Accounting Federation (IFAC) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).
In addition, the payment rate was low compared to 41% of each budget commitment under Title II and Title III.
The high level of unused appropriations and transfers made and the low rate of payments indicate weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget and violate the principle of annuality.
Other comments 14.Transparency of recruitment procedures requires improvement.
For example, invitations to tender do not indicate the maximum number of candidates to be included in the reserve list, nor do they provide information on the appeal.
7 written and oral examinations and their weight shall not be prepared before examination of applications.
15.In 2011, the Agency paid an expert seconded who was a national of the country in which he was established a daily allowance of EUR 10 839.
This payment infringes the provisions adopted by the Management Board of the Agency concerning the secondment of national experts under which only temporary staff who are not nationals of the Member State in which they are employed are entitled to daily subsistence allowances.
This report was adopted by the House IV, chaired by Mr Louis GALEA, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 5 September 2012.
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
8 Annex Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Competences of the Union under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Competences of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Competences and activities of the European Parliament and of the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt measures to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
The Union's energy policy shall have the following objectives: (a) ensuring the functioning of the energy market; (b) ensuring security of energy supply within the Union; (c) promoting energy efficiency and energy savings and developing new and renewable energy sources; (d) promoting interconnection of energy networks in a spirit of solidarity between Member States in the implementation or functioning of the internal market; and
The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall adopt the measures necessary to achieve those objectives.
Those measures shall be adopted after consulting the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
The purpose of the Agency shall be to assist national regulatory authorities in the performance of regulatory tasks in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, in the coordination of their activities.
Tasks - complementing and coordinating the work of national regulatory authorities, - contribute to the development of European network rules, - under certain conditions to take binding individual decisions on the conditions of access and operational security of cross-border infrastructure, - advise European institutions on energy issues, - monitor and report on energy markets, - prepare a proposal addressed to the European Commission on the annual amount of compensation for cross-border infrastructure under the ITC mechanism, - cooperate with national regulatory authorities, ESMA, the competent financial authorities of Member States and, where appropriate, national competition authorities to monitor wholesale energy markets, - assess the functioning and transparency of the various categories of markets and trades, - submit recommendations to the Commission on market rules, trade registers, trade orders, standards and procedures that could improve the integrity of the market and the functioning of the internal market.
Composition of the Management Board: The Management Board shall consist of two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
Each member has an alternate.
Tasks: The Management Board shall adopt the Agency's annual work programme, adopt its budget and monitor its implementation.
The Executive Director will be appointed Director after obtaining a positive opinion of the Board of Regulators on the basis of ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
Composition of the Board of Regulators: The Board of Regulators shall consist of a high-ranking representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a representative of the Commission without voting rights.
Each member shall have an alternate appointed by the relevant national regulatory authority of each Member State.
Tasks: - The Board of Regulators shall provide the Director with opinions on the opinions, recommendations and decisions to be adopted. - It shall direct the Director in the performance of its duties. - The Management Board shall deliver an opinion on the candidate to be appointed Director. - It shall approve the Agency's work programme.
External audit of the Court of Auditors.
Parliament's discharge authority on a recommendation from the Council.
Article 39, other positions: 12. Total: 39, of which: - operational actions: 28, - administrative and supporting actions: 11 - 5 framework guidelines (linking framework guidelines, framework guidelines on capacity allocation and congestion management and framework guidelines on system operation; gas: framework guidelines on capacity allocation mechanisms for the European transmission network (ENTSO electricity) and European interconnection of transmission system operators (ENTSO gas); - adoption of an opinion on the 10-year plan for the development of the ENTSO gas network; - adoption of an opinion on the 2012 work programme on electricity; - requirements and indicators for the monitoring of data referred to in Article 11 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009; - the official opening of the business (3 March 2011 page of the page) and the establishment of the Agency's website; - establishment of an analysis group on gas; - establishment of a European working group on electricity (indice) in 2015; - adoption of an opinion on the Union page of the page on the page of the page of the European Parliament for Electricity (vs) in 2015; on the European Working Group on the 2015 on the page of the page in 2015 on the page of the page of the European Parliament in the European Parliament in the European Parliament on the European Parliament on the European Parliament on the European Parliament on the European Parliament on the European Parliament; on the European Parliament; on the European Parliament; on the European Parliament; on the European Parliament on the European Parliament; on the Council on the Council on the European Parliament on the Council on the Council on the Council on the Council on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the European Parliament, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the European Parliament, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on
Source: Agency data. ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy regulators ACER - Agence de coopération des régulateurs de l'énergie AGENCY's replies 13. In the first year of its activity, ACER had to employ a large part of its employees, which involved problems and led to the fact that vacancies were filled late, which was clearly reflected in the utilisation rate of the Agency's budget.
This also had an impact on the public procurement needs envisaged and led to a concentration of procurement procedures at the end of the year, which required significant transfers of appropriations to meet the legal and budgetary commitments made.
As most of the posts were filled at the beginning of 2012, ACER is now in a much better position to carry out the tasks entrusted to it and to carry out its budget.
14. ACER took note of the reasons for the Court's observations and has already taken corrective action.
15. ACER takes note that the provisional findings are justified and has already suspended the payment of daily allowances to the Slovenian SNE.
INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency', including "ACER') established in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
In the framework of the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation) 2, additional tasks have been delegated to the Agency and the national regulatory authorities to monitor the European wholesale energy market3.
The audit approach includes procedures for analytical control, direct control of operations and evaluation of key controls of the Agency's supervisory and control systems.
In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court examined: 1 2 3 OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
For information purposes, Annex II shall include a summary of the Agency's obligations and activities.
(a) The management responsibility for the Agency's annual accounts shall include the design, establishment and maintenance of the internal control system as necessary for the preparation and proper general presentation of the annual accounts which are free from material, planned or unintentional misconceptions, selection and application of relevant accounting rules on the basis of the accounting principles adopted by the Commission's accounting officer7 and 4 5 6 7 The financial statements shall include the balance sheet and the statement of economic results, the table of cash flows, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of the basic accounting principles and other explanations.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer shall be based on the International Public Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Accounting Federation (IFAC) or, where applicable, International Accounting Standards (IAS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts after having been prepared by the Agency's accounting officer on the basis of all available information and upon presentation of the accompanying accounts, which shall, inter alia, state that it has sufficient assurance that the Agency's annual accounts in all material respects provide a true and fair view of the Agency's financial situation; (b) the responsibility for managing the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for complying with the principle of sound financial management requires the development, establishment and maintenance of an effective and effective internal control system, including adequate supervision and measures to prevent irregularities and fraud and, where appropriate, legal action to recover funds unduly paid or incorrectly used.
The responsibility of the controller is to make a statement on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions on the basis of an audit carried out by the European Parliament and the Council8.
In accordance with these standards, the Court is required to plan and carry out audits in such a way as to ensure that ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
The choice of controls depends on the recognition of the examiner.
When assessing those risks, the controller shall take into account all internal controls relevant for the preparation and proper presentation of the financial statements and the supervisory and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and shall plan the control activities that are appropriate in the situation in question.
Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 8.After assessing the Agency's annual accounts at 31 December 2013, the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ending that date, in accordance with the financial rules and rules adopted by the accounting officer ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
6 The general accounting rules adopted by the Commission in all material respects are appropriate.
10. The following comments do not undermine the Court's view on the audit.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 11.The Agency has transferred EUR 1,9 million or 56% of the total appropriations for Title II (the Agency's buildings and associated costs) and is mainly linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
This is an operational and multiannual activity which should be completed under Title III of the budget.
12. In addition, the Agency has transferred EUR 3.1 million or 91% of the total appropriations allocated under Title III, including in connection with the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
The extremely high transfer rate in Title III results mainly from an increase of EUR 3 million in the amending budget approved on 31 October 2013.
OTHER COMMENTS 13. At the end of the year, the Agency had EUR 5.5 million in cash, including around EUR 3 million in late ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 7 Amending budget (see paragraph 12).
However, the average cash during the year was significantly higher than the operating costs.
The report was adopted by Chamber IV chaired by Milan Martin CVIKL, a member of the Court of Auditors, at a meeting in Luxembourg on 8 July 2014.
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 COMMENTS FROM FORMER YEARS ANNEX I Annual remark of the Court Status of corrective actions (completed/in progress/present/e.g.) 2011 High levels of unused appropriations and transfers made and low rate of payments indicate weaknesses in budget planning and implementation and violate the principle of annuality.
The transparency of recruitment procedures needs to be improved in 2011.
In addition, questions concerning written and oral examinations and their weight were not developed prior to the examination of applications.
Closing in 2012 In order to cover higher fees for education, the Agency grants a special allowance in addition to the educational allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations1 to workers whose children attend primary or secondary school.
In 2012, the special allowances amounted to around EUR 23 000.
They are not covered by the statutes and are therefore incompatible with the rules.
Completed ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 2 years Court's observation The state of play of corrective actions (completed/present/present/e.g.) 2012 the Agency has transferred budgetary commitments of EUR 1.7 million (equivalent to 81% of the total amount of commitments under Title II) to the following financial year in Title II (the Agency's buildings and associated costs).
These transfers are mainly linked to the ongoing implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
Since these implementing measures form part of the Agency's operational activities, they should be entered in the budget in Title III.
Closed in 2012, the Agency made 20 budget transfers of around EUR 1 million, including 43 budget lines.
The Agency closed in 2012 with EUR 4.2 million of cash at the end of the year, including a 2011 budget surplus of EUR 1.6 million resulting from an excessive recovery in 2011, which was recovered by the Commission in January 2013.
In 2012, the recruitment procedures audited showed shortcomings affecting transparency and equal treatment of candidates: questions concerning oral and written examinations were not identified prior to the examination of applications.
The conditions for admission to written and oral examinations and inclusion in the list of relevant candidates were not sufficiently precise and insufficient measures were taken to ensure the anonymity of candidates participating in the written examinations.
In the course of Article 3, Annex VII to the Staff Regulations provides for a double basic allowance of EUR 252,81 or EUR 505,62.
ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 ANNEX II Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ( Ljubljana) Competences of the Union under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Competences of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Competences and activities of the European Parliament and of the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt measures to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
the incentive management structure and the common method for assessing the greater risks associated with investments in electricity and gas transmission infrastructure.
The Management Board shall be composed of two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
The tasks of the Management Board shall be adopted by the Agency's annual work programme and shall adopt its budget.
It shall ensure that the Agency carries out its tasks and carries out its tasks in accordance with the Agency's Regulation.
The Director shall be appointed by the Management Board after obtaining a positive opinion of the Board of Regulators on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the Commission.
The Board of Regulators shall be composed of a high-ranking representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a representative of the Commission without voting rights.
Each member shall have an alternate appointed by the relevant national regulatory authority of each Member State.
Tasks - The Board of Regulators shall provide the Director with opinions on the opinions, recommendations and decisions to be adopted. - It shall direct the Director in the performance of its duties. - It shall send the Management Board an opinion on the candidate to be appointed Director. - It shall approve the Agency's work programme.
External audit of the European Court of Auditors.
Budget 2013 (2012) 11.9 (7,2) million EUR Staff as at 31 December 2013 (2012) Posts provided for in the establishment plan: 49 (43), including staff as at 31 December: 49 (42).
Other human resources: 20 (14). Total human resources: 69 (57). Including operational actions: 41 (34), administrative actions: 28 (23). - Framework guidelines (Gas: Framework Guidelines on the harmonisation of transmission charging systems); organisation of public consultations pursuant to Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009, including workshops; - Network codes (a) seven reasoned opinions on network codes (network code on long-term capacity allocation, network code on operational planning, network code on frequency and reserve management, network code on customer interconnection; gas: network code on compensation and network code on interoperability and data exchange); (b) four recommendations on network codes (all areas: network code on connection conditions for all power stations, network code on capacity allocation and congestion management; network code on operational planning); 2 Resources for 2013 (data for 2012)
Source: Annex made available by the Agency.
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators - AGENCIES' REPLY 11. The Court concluded that, with regard to the subsequent commitment appropriations related to the implementation of REMIT, these deficiencies have already been corrected by the Agency under the operational headings of Title III.
12. As the inspectors have already acknowledged, the high transmission rate was due to delays in REMIT implementation.
This delay was due to the approval of DG ENER's transfer of the necessary additional appropriations only in October 2013 and the appropriations were transferred to the Agency at the beginning of November 2013.
However, the Agency has successfully completed all planned procurement procedures for the implementation of REMIT by December 2013, and expenditure will be incurred in 2014.
13. The balance of the account at the end of the year covered EUR 3 million received only later in time and the remaining amount was intended to cover all legal obligations, in particular those related to REMIT, for which commitments were made at the end of 2013.
The cash forecasting tool introduced in 2014 will allow better money management in the future. ACER - DE
DE 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/17 Annual Report of the Agency for 2015 on cooperation between regulatory authorities in the field of energy, together with the Agency's reply (2016/C 449/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The main task of the Agency shall be to assist national regulatory authorities in the implementation of regulatory tasks carried out in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, to coordinate the activities of those authorities.
Under the Regulation on the integration and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation) (2) the Agency and the national regulatory authorities have been entrusted with additional tasks related to the monitoring of the European wholesale energy market.
2. The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (3).
Table Key figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) Staff at 31 December (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
3. The Court's approach includes analytical procedures, direct performance checks and evaluation of the control of locks in the Agency's supervisory and control systems.
In 2014, 10,9 72 2015 11.3 80 Performance Indicators 4. Pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court examined: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of annual accounts[4) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (5) f.r. of the financial year ending on 31 December 2015; (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts.
Responsibility of the Management Board 5. The Management Board shall be responsible for drawing up and presenting correctly the Agency's annual accounts and for the rule of law and order of the underlying assumptions (6): (1) OJ L 365, 17.12.2002, p. 1.
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1).
The Agency will play an important role in monitoring energy trade in Europe.
(3) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.acer.europa.eu verf.
Articles 39 and 50 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013
C 449/18 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 DE (a) The management responsibility of the Agency shall include the design, establishment and maintenance of an internal control system as necessary for the preparation and proper overall presentation of annual accounts which are free from material or unintended false presentations, the selection and application of the relevant accounting rules based on the accounting principles adopted by the Commission's accounting officer[47] and the determination of the values established in the accounts that are acceptable in the framework of those amendments.
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts upon presentation by the Agency's accounting officer on the basis of the information available, and upon presentation of the financial statements, which shall, inter alia, explain that it contains adequate information that the financial statements provide, in all material respects, an overview of the Agency's financial situation corresponding to the factual criteria. (b) The responsibility of the management for ensuring the legality and regularity of the underlying activities and, where appropriate, for complying with the principle of budgetary economy requires the development, establishment and maintenance of an effective and effective internal control system, including adequate supervision and appropriate measures to prevent irregularities and fraud, and, where appropriate, legal action to recover funds unduly paid or incorrectly used.
The Court's responsibility 6. The Court's task is to provide the European Parliament and the Council (8), on the basis of its recommendations, with information on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assumptions.
In accordance with these standards, the Court is required to plan and ensure sufficient security as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material false presentations and its grounds are legal and regular. 7. In order to obtain evidence to support the values and other information contained in the annual accounts, as well as to ensure compliance with the law and order of the matter.
In accordance with Article 208 (4) of the EU Financial Regulation (9), the Court, when drawing up that report and clarifying its compliance with the rules, took into account the work undertaken by the Agency's independent external financial officer.
8. The Court considers that the evidence obtained is sufficient and adequate to serve as a basis for its conformity assessment.
In accordance with the Court's assessment, the Agency's annual accounts at 31 December 2015 shall present the relevant financial and financial situation as well as the results of its forecasts and cash flows during the year ending that date, in accordance with its Financial Regulation and the accounting rules generally adopted by the authorising officer of the Commission.
11.
(7) (8) (9) The following observations do not undermine the Court's view.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer shall be based on International Public Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Accounting Federation (IFAC) or, where appropriate, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/19 COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET 12. The Agency has transferred respectively EUR 1,36 million and 59% of the appropriations entered in Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year (2014: EUR 1,57 million and 62%).
These measures were essentially linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (1.1 million euro), a complex multi-annual operational approach to the integration and transparency of the wholesale energy market.
In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 0,79 million and 35% respectively (in 2014 EUR 0,98 million and 41% respectively) of the appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year; these revenue mainly concerned research and services which had not yet been carried out in 2015.
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years.
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Baudilio TOM. MUGURUZA, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 13 September 2016.
Court of Auditors V. W. Manuel da Silva CALDEIRA Principal
C 449/20 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 DE Court's comment The Agency has transferred EUR 1,57 million or 62% of the appropriations entered in Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (EUR 3,1 million and 91% respectively in 2013).
Those measures were essentially related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation, the complex multiannual operational nature for which the Implementing Regulation was adopted only on 17 December 2014 (1).
In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 0.98 million and 41% respectively (in 2013: EUR 1.9 million and 56%) of the appropriations allocated to Title II (administrative expenditure) for the following financial year.
In October 2013, the Agency received an additional EUR 3 million in the amending budget for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation for 2014.
However, the provisions of the transposition Regulation shall apply only from October 2015.
Part of the appropriations was used in 2014 to prepare the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
At the end of 2014, the Agency made two pre-financing payments of EUR 1,56 million for Vertragge services in connection with the REMIT Regulation to be implemented between 2015 and 2017, thus avoiding automatic reimbursement of unused funds to the Commission[2].
While this allows the Agency to finance its potential REMIT activities, this approach is contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
The aim of the agreement between the Agency and the Government of Slovenia is to establish a European school in Slovenia, but this has not been done more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
In accordance with Article 13 of the EU Financial Regulation, these costs will only be carried over to the following financial year.
DE 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/21 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 13. The Agency is aware of the level of appropriations carried over at the end of the year due to open commitments which are mainly linked to the long-term nature of the REMIT project.
Given the continuing uncertainty about the annual allocation of appropriations to the Agency, the principle of fairness is difficult to reconcile with the inevitable nature of the REMIT project, which is a multi-annual one.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/25 Annual Report of the Agency for 2016 on cooperation between regulatory authorities in the field of energy, together with the Agency's reply (2017/C 417/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The main task of the Agency shall be to assist national regulatory authorities in the implementation of regulatory tasks carried out in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, to coordinate the activities of those authorities.
Table Key figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) Staff at 31 December (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: ABI. Budget data published.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(3) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.acer.europa.eu. (4) The financial statements include an overview of the financial results, a cash flow account, a table of changes in net value, and a summary of accounting guarantees and other changes.
(5) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as reports on the implementation of the budget.
EN C 417/26 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 b) The legality and regularity of the underlying financial statements have been analysed.§ Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2016 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2016, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2016, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
Payment The decision on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 7. According to our assessment, the payments underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 are legal and regular in all material respects.
Article 310-325 TFEU and the Agency's financial rules shall be responsible for drawing up and providing comprehensive financial statements on the basis of international accounting rules.
This liability shall include the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures which are necessary for the preparation and presentation of annual accounts free from material or unintentional false presentations.
The Management Board of the Agency shall have ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts.
10. The persons responsible for supervision shall be responsible for supervising the accounting process of the institution.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/27 The responsibility of the evaluation body for approving the annual accounts and underlying them 11. Our aim is to ensure sufficient security as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material false declarations and are based on correct and correct actions, as well as to the European Parliament and the Council or other competent discharge authority, based on our studies, to provide information on the reliability of the accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying assumptions.
False presentations and understanding may be intended or unintended and shall be considered relevant if they can be expected individually or collectively to affect the economic decisions made by users on the basis of this Financial Statement.
12. In order to obtain evidence of the value and other information contained in the financial statements, as well as to obtain the legality and regularity of the assumptions on which it is based. The choice of value and other information contained in the financial statements is mandatory. To this end, an assessment of the risk associated with significant or unintended activities in the financial statements as well as relevant or unintended value actions.
When assessing these risks, Pr is not of the opinion that all internal controls that are relevant for legality and public policy purposes are designed to plan preparatory actions that are appropriate within the organisation but are not intended to deliver an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
The assessment shall also include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting rules applied, the reasonableness set out by the accounting management and the overall assessment of the financial statements.
13. As far as revenue is concerned, we shall assess and assess, where appropriate, the methods of revenue collection and other revenue received by the Agency from the Commission.
14. As regards expenditure, we examine the assumptions concerning payments after approval, registration and acceptance of expenditure.
Advances shall be paid after proof that the measure has been used correctly and the Agency has accepted the evidence by clearing the advance in the same year or at a later date.
(15) Article 208 (4) of the EU Financial Regulation (6) concerned the work carried out by an independent external official on the Agency's annual accounts during the preparation of that report and to clarify whether it complies with the provisions of Article 208 (4) of the EU Financial Regulation (6).
16. The following observations do not undermine the Court's view.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 17. In its May 2016 working report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the urgent need to clarify roles and responsibilities and analyse the workload of the contracting entity in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures.
The IAS also concluded that the planning and monitoring of public procurement should be significantly improved.
The Agency and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET 18 The Agency provided EUR 4.9 million and 86% of the appropriations entered in Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year (EUR 1,4 million and 59% respectively in 2015).
As in previous years, these measures were essentially linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation on the integration and transparency of the wholesale energy market[7) and amounted to EUR 4.7 million in 2016 (in 2015: EUR 1.1 million).
In Title II (administrative expenditure) the Agency transferred EUR 1 million and 38% of appropriations for the following financial year respectively (EUR 0,8 million and 35% respectively in 2015).
19. Income growth is worrying and contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
The efficiency factor is directly linked to the completion or signature of public procurement and public procurement procedures at the end of the year, leading to the transfer of supplies and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of 299 Vertragen were signed in November and December (EUR 5 976 122,47, or 40% of the total value of Vertragge closed in 2016).
The Agency may decide to introduce separate budgetary measures to better reflect the multi-annual nature of the contracts and the unavoidable divergences between contracts, supplies and payments.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Baudilio TOM. MUGURUZA, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 12 September 2017.
6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/29 EN Court's observations Gem.§ The agreement between the Agency and the Government of Slovenia aims to establish a European school in Slovenia, but this has not occurred more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
The Agency transferred EUR 1.36 million and 59% of the appropriations entered in Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (EUR 1.57 million and 62% respectively in 2014).
These measures were essentially linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (€1.1 million), a complex multi-annual operational approach to the integration and transparency of the wholesale energy market.
In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 0,79 million and 35% respectively (EUR 0,98 million and 41% respectively in 2014) of the appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year; these revenue mainly concerned research and services which had not yet been carried out in 2015.
Council Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 of 20 December 2006 on the European Social Fund (OJ L 316, 30.12.2006, p. 1).
DE C 417/30 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 18. The Agency has successfully implemented the actions agreed with IAS.
Of the six recommendations, two very important and three important recommendations have already been adopted.
The Agency plans to withdraw the last recommendation by October 2017.
19. The Agency notes that, due to the multi-annual investments related to the REMIT Regulation, the appropriations are high and difficult to reconcile with the budgetary principles of fairness.
The high revenue results from the schedule of the annual contractual cycle established in 2013 when the Agency received additional budget appropriations for the REMIT project at the end of the year.
However, it should be noted that the commitment was implemented at 100% for the financial year 2016 under chapter F for REMIT expenditure.
The Agency will examine the implementation of the separate budget appropriations for Title III.
20. The Agency considers that the introduction of separate measures in Title III better reflects the multiplicity of some of its capacities, particularly in the REMIT area, provided that the funds made available to the Agency are stable and predictable.
On the basis of the information received from the European Training Foundation (ESB-Turin) together with the replies of the European Agency for Vocational Training (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies to the 27 financial statements of the Office for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (OHIM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Foundation 32 financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the replies of the Agency for the Single Market (OHIM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation of the Internal Market (OHIM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation of 32 financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ESB-Turin), together with the replies of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the replies of the Office for the accounts of the Single Market (OHIM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation of the 32 financial statements of the European Foundation for Vocational Training (ESB-Turin), together with the replies of the European Medicines Agency (Codes), with the 13th European Commission's's's's's's's'.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (OJ L 39, 13.2.1975, p. 1), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93
2. The Court examined the accounts of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ending 31 December 1995.
In accordance with Article 18 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76
(OJ L 181, 23.7.1993, p. 15), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
In accordance with Articles 65, 61 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93, he is also responsible for drawing up and submitting financial statements in accordance with financial rules.
The Court of Auditors shall be required to audit the accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The European Council of 29 October 1993 decided to transfer the seat of Cedefop from Berlin to Thessaloniki.
In order to facilitate this move, certain changes have been made to the conditions of employment of staff which were partly not in line with the regulations in force.
The exact circumstances are described in paragraph 46.
In addition, a number of other cases were identified where payments were not fully in line with the regulations in force.
5. On the basis of its audit, the Court can reasonably conclude that the accounts for page 10 11 12 are reliable for the financial year ending 31 December 1995, as they correctly reflect the revenue and expenditure of 1995 and the financial situation at the end of the year.
In addition to the important exception for expenditure referred to in the preceding paragraph, the underlying transactions were, in general, legal and regular.
CONTROL COMMENTS General context 6 The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 {l) as a satellite body of the European Community and aims to promote vocational training at Community level.
Cedefop started work in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Thessaloniki in 1995.
7. As defined in that Regulation, the Centre should assist the Commission in promoting and continuing vocational education and training at Community level, contributing to the implementation of a common policy on vocational education and training, and in particular to the exchange of information and experience."
In the field of vocational education and training, the Centre shall be responsible in particular for preparing documentation, contributing to the development and coordination of research, providing adequate documentation and information, supporting and supporting initiatives to achieve a coordinated solution (in particular as regards the approximation of levels of education and mutual recognition of certificates) and setting up a meeting point for interested parties." 8. The Centre shall be managed by a management board of 48 members (in 1995 costs of ECU 334 000 were incurred).
The Management Board shall elect a Chairperson and three Vice-Chairs from among its members for a period of one year.
At the time of the audit (May 1996), the Chairman of the Governing Board was chaired by DG XXII Director-General for Education, Training and Youth.
The Director of the Centre shall be appointed by the Commission on the basis of a list of candidates submitted by the Governing Board.
9. In accordance with the basic Regulation, the Director shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Centre, while the Management Board shall have overall responsibility.
The Management Board shall take decisions, adopt the work programme and annual report, draw up the revenue and statement of expenditure for the previous year and the estimate of revenue and expenditure for the coming year.
10. In accordance with the basic Regulation, the Commission's role as representatives of DG XXI I is not only to represent the members of the Commission in the Governing Board, but also to adopt the work programme, to assess the review and revenue report and the statement of expenditure and to submit an estimate of revenue and expenditure to the Council and the European Parliament.
In accordance with Article 23 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93* of 30 June 1993, any commitments and payments made by the Centre before payment must be: (a) the corresponding costs and benefits compared to the budget expenditure to support Cedefop; (b) the efficient use of human resources and other resources; (c) high-quality products that meet the needs of Cedefop's customers; (d) a clear and coherent role in the European Community's vocational education and training policy.
Financial data 14. For the financial year 1995 the Centre had funds of ECU 16.50 million.
These commitments led to a payment of ECU 10,11 million and a transfer of ECU 4,67 million for the 1996 financial year, the remaining amount being cancelled of ECU 1,72 million.
ECU 2.16 million were paid out of appropriations carried over from the previous year and ECU 0.29 million were cancelled.
Annex 1 to this report analyses the use of appropriations for the financial year and appropriations carried over from the financial year 1994.
Annex 2 sets out the accounts for the financial year 1995 and the balance sheet of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 1995.
Comments on the implementation of the budget Separation of actions 15. Following the move to Thessaloniki, Zen has not yet put in place appropriate procedures for allocating the duties of authorising officer, accounting officer and pre-financing administrator.
For example, the accounting officer took control of the pre-financing administrator.
Payment agency 16. The share of payments made without the consent of the financial controller remains high (60% in 1995 without remuneration).
The strong use of the pre-financing scheme is not in line with the spirit of the financial rules.
A more acceptable practice would be that only current expenditure and expenditure for a small amount, where the risk of irregularities is relatively low, should be cleared through the paying agency.
In 1995, transfers between different budget headings amounted to ECU 922 000, i.e. 5,6 % of the original budget compared to 10,9% in 1994.
In the last two months of 1995, a transfer of 33% was made in 1994.
18. The Centre did not carry out any overruns between the various titles in 1995.
Therefore, the observations submitted by the Court last year (2) have been taken into account.
19. The practice of transferring large amounts in previous years [3] continued to increase in 1995;
In 1995 only 61% of the funds finally available were paid out compared to 73% in 1994.
The share of commitments carried over to 1996 was 28% (compared to 23% in 1994).
The proportion of funds lost was 10% in 1994, compared with 5% in 1994.
Table 1 shows the breakdown by title of appropriations carried over from the original budget for 1995 and their subsequent use.
20. Transfers in the area of operational expenditure amounted to 53% of the original appropriations compared to 40% in 1994.
Since 8 percent of the operating expenditure appropriations fell, this means that only 39 percent of its operating budget for 1995 was paid out in 1995 by the Centre.
At the end of the first quarter of 1996 only 34% of the appropriations carried over from 1995 under Title 3 were paid.
21. A significant number of transfers in the budget and cancelled appropriations and a large number of transfers in the budget for the financial year indicate that the work programme has not been implemented in accordance with the plan and that the principles of budgetary management have been infringed.
This and the lack of human resources (see paragraph 42 (w)) will have a serious impact on the implementation of the budget in 1996.
Whereas the contribution from the general budget of the Communities for the financial year 1995 has been paid by the Commission in several instalments; whereas the first tranche of ECU 2 300 000 was paid on 6 February 1995, followed by successive tranches of ECU 2 400 000 on 20 April 1995, of ECU 2 500 000 on 28 June 1995, of ECU 2 800 000 on 5 October 1995, of ECU 5 875 000 on 22 November 1995 and of ECU 525 000 on 1 December 1995;
As in previous years (4), the rate of payment is not compatible (2) The Court's Annual Report for the financial year 1994.
(3) The Court's annual reports for the financial years 1992 and 1993, containing Article 26 of the Centre's financial rules, according to which payments are made during the first half of each quarter and should be adapted to the actual needs.
Expenditure 23. Following the decision to transfer the Centre to Thessaloniki, a new Deputy Director was appointed in 1994 who then lived and worked in Thessaloniki.
The employee moved to Berlin and received development aid of twice the basic salary. Less than a year later, i.e. after moving Zen.treum to Thessaloniki, the same employee again received a development allowance of twice the basic salary.
Since the transfer of the centre took place quickly, the stay of the operator in Berlin was short (11 months), and it also spent part of that period in Thessaloniki and received full daily allowances (including weekends). The Court considers that these decisions do not comply with the principle of sound financial management and infringe Cedefop's rights.
24. The Treaty of another Deputy Director, who moved from Berlin to Madrid in July 1995, was signed by the Governing Board with effect from 3 January 1995.
As a result, the worker received a payment of ECU 71 030.
The Court considers that the decision of the Management Board was not in line with the principles of economic governance.
25. In accordance with Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993, the contract may be awarded free of charge if the amount of the contract does not exceed ECU 12 000.
I n at least 12 cases have been sold for more than ECU 12 000 without complying with the tendering procedure laid down in Article 45 of that Regulation.
26. Nearly 40% of the commitments under the pilot studies and projects budget line for the 1995 financial year (ECU 300,000) have been implemented in the last two months of 1995.
The amount of ECU 150 572 was allocated to the remuneration of the expert who started working at Cedefop on 1 February 1.996 and to another expert whose contract was signed on 22 December 1995.
These measures have been used too long to prevent the loss of funds.
27. The rental of Cedefop's temporary premises for January 1996 (ECU 22 750) has already been entered in the 1995 budget account.
Since these expenditures relate to the financial year 1996, they should also be entered in the accounts in 1996 and 1994.
The Court calls on the Centre to draw up as soon as possible the current list, as required by Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976 as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993.
29. The balance sheet shall show outstanding amounts for the previous financial year of ECU 3 134 for the invoice issued in 1991.
The Court's observations [5] were not taken into account, although the Centre's response provided adequate assurances.
The Court recommends that the Centre write back this amount unless there is reason to believe that this amount will be recovered. •
30. At the end of the year, the Centre had financial resources of ECU 5.9 million.
The Centre is therefore responsible for the management of large financial resources, although it has little expertise in this field.
The Court reiterates its attention last year [6], according to which this situation should be avoided through a greater adjustment by the Centre of quarterly financial collection by the Commission to its actual financial needs; - At the same time, the Commission should ensure that the Centre receives a realistic liquidity review before making payments;
Transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki General comments ^B 31. At the European Council meeting on 29 October 1993, it was decided to transfer the seat of Cedefop from Berlin to Thessaloniki in Greece (7).
32. The actual transfer to Thessaloniki took place in August 1995 and in September 1995 the Centre started operating in Greece.
According to the Court's calculations, the 1995 budget accounts contain approximately ECU 3 300 000 for removal expenditure.
33. The centre has been located in the Thessaloniki Institute of Agriculture and Industry since 1 September 1995.
From 1 September 1999 at the latest, the Greek State shall provide the Centre with a permanent accommodation building.
The Centre has signed four agreements- (i) the Court's annual report for the financial year 1994.
(6) The Court's annual report for the financial year 1994.
(7) Council Decision 93/C 323/01 of 29 October 1993, OJ C 323, 30.11.1993, p. 1 concerning the rental of temporary premises and the construction of a permanent accommodation building.
The basic agreement between Cedefop and the Greek State was signed in Thessaloniki on 22 June 1995.
The remaining three agreements, including the agreement between the Greek State and the organisation responsible for the whole construction, form part of this basic agreement.
Temporary room 34. An annual rent of ECU 273 000, paid directly to the owner, must be paid for the temporary building of the Centre.
35. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement between the Greek State and the Centre, the Greek State shall make the building available to Cedefop together with all its installations from 1 September 1995.
The Greek authorities are responsible for electrical and electronic cable connections and telephone calls.
36. At the time of the transfer of the building, the Centre did not express any reservations in writing.
However, for the first four months in Thessaloniki (September - December 1995) the Centre had to invest ECU 120 000 so that this building could function with temporary premises.
Among other things, electronic and electrical cable connections and telephone calls had to be moved.
37. These investments were fully covered by the Centre and the corresponding costs were specified in the 1995 accounts.
These agreements do not provide a clear indication of who is to take over these investments.
Final accommodation 38. The Greek State shall make the building for final accommodation available to the Centre by 1 September 1999 at the latest."
For the construction of the Cedefop building, the total amount of ECU 6 879 750 in four equal tranches of ECU 1 719 937 will be paid to the Greek State.
For the first three tranches, payment dates were set at 1 September 1995, 1 September 1996 and 1 September 1997.
The last tranche shall be paid at the time of the final transfer of the building.
39. The Centre has not ensured that these payments are linked to the real progress of construction works.
The Centre has already paid over two years before the transfer of the building an amount of ECU 5 159 811.
40. The Court recommends that the Centre ensure that interest is used for the first tranche in favour of V orbein.
The Centre should ensure that the Labour Organisation (O.E.K.), which is responsible for the general performance of the work carried out by Cedefop.
Staff: General comments 42. The 1995 establishment plan provides for 79 posts, including 24À.11LA,15B,26Cund3D.At the time point of inspection (May 1996) 37 people actually worked for Cedefop (14 A, 7 B, 14 C and 2 D), 11 people were taken over by other EU institutions at the same time, 14 people left the Centre before moving to Thessaloniki and 17 people were abandoned to stay in Berlin.
In 1995 and 1996, many new workers had to be employed and this development would continue in 1996.
43. 17 people staying in Berlin may work for public and private institutions or other European institutions, maintaining remuneration for a maximum period of 18 months, depending on the age of service in Cedefop (each year of service shall be equal to one month's salary and a minimum period of service shall be 6 months).
At the end of that period, interested parties may move to Thessaloniki or find another solution.
This situation leads, inter alia, to the fact that Cedefop cannot fill 17 posts (May 1996) because they are blocked in the budget and cannot be filled because the persons concerned may subsequently decide to move to Thessaloniki.
44. It is unclear what will happen to those of this group of 17 people who do not want to move to Thessaloniki after a fixed period of stay in Berlin.
Article 20 of the Staff Regulations provides that, at the place of employment or at such a distance from that place, an official shall be required to take up his place of residence so as not to impede the performance of his duties."
However, three cases were brought before the EU Court of Justice concerning workers who were not ready to move to Thessaloniki.
45. This situation, in which the 17 important posts provided for in the budget plan are blocked by workers who are currently not working for Cedefop, had a significant impact on the work of the Centre in 1995 and will also take place in 1996 and 1997.
Staff: Amendment of status 46. I n Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 of 10 February 1975, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995, provides that the staff of the Centre shall be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Centre shall exercise the powers conferred on the appointing authority in respect of its staff.
The Management Board of the Centre shall, after consulting the Commission, adopt the relevant implementing rules.';
Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 also repeals Council Regulation (ECSC, EEC, Euratom) No 1859/76 of 29 June 1976 laying down the conditions of employment of staff of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training.
This amendment was necessary to ensure consistency in the management of staff of decentralised institutions (...) at Community level" (8).
While the staff of the Centre have been appointed officials, staff of other decentralised institutions shall consist of temporary staff.
47. The Court examined changes in the conditions of employment and other arrangements between the Council and staff, indicating a number of irregularities which are most serious from the Court's point of view.
48. The Administrative Board has not presented these findings to the financial controller for the purpose of issuing an opinion.
However, all the liabilities arising from these contracts have been cleared under the pre-financing procedure and have been subsequently approved by the financial controller.
The appointment of staff as temporary staff 49 m Associated with moving to Tessalo in Niki, the Centre took the following steps to adjust the situation of its staff: In the first stage of 1 March 1995, all temporary staff (Article 2 (b) of the Conditions of Employment of other servants of the European Communities) were appointed EU officials in the same grade and grade as contract staff.
The breach of the Staff Regulations in connection with the appointment of Cedefop's contract staff for a limited period of time on 1 March 1995 should not have been considered to be a higher worker than level 3 (or grade 4 in grade A 1 (8) Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 amending Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 establishing Cedefop, fourth recital).
13. 3.97 ~~1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 81/7 to A 4, LA 3 and LA 4) (see Article 32 of the Staff Regulations, which shall apply in accordance with Article 15 of the Conditions of employment of other temporary staff).
51. However, 33 of the 59 fixed-term workers were classified as higher than level 3.
On 1 March 1995, the Centre published 15 interlinked calls for tenders and notifications of internal competitions.
I m On the basis of these competitions, all Cedefop's previous employees were appointed as officials. ^w' 53. According to the Staff Regulations, the purpose of the selection procedure is to conduct a competition between a large number of candidates to fill the vacant post of the most qualified candidate (Article 27 (1) of the Staff Regulations).
Therefore, by definition selection is linked to competitiveness and the risk of non-recognition (10).
Therefore, nomination decisions should be considered unlawful (n) following the selection procedure in which discretion is abused.
56. The Commission's Legal Service reached the same conclusion as confirmed by the note dated 4 January 1995, paragraph (c) (12).
57. In view of the fact that the selection procedure has been applied for purposes other than those set out in the Staff Regulations, it should be considered that the selection procedures carried out by Cedefop have been abused and should therefore be considered unlawful.
In accordance with Article 31 of the Staff Regulations, Cedefop's staff should be appointed as officials from 1 April 1995: in grade A or Special Language Service (LA): in the recruitment group for which they have been employed (i.e. Β 1, Β 3 or Β 5; C 1, C 5 or D 1, D 3 or D 4) (Article 31 (2)), up to half of the appointment, staff members may be appointed in grade nearest;
59. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, 32 of 43 employees were employed in a group higher than the group receiving remuneration (13).
(10) Judgment of 29.9.1976 in Case 105/75 GI UFFRI DA v RAT, ECR S. 1395. (n) Judgment in Case GI UFFRI DA, see above.
(12) The selection procedure by definition involves a risk of non-compliance and there are clear legal reasons why this margin of risk should be maintained.
(13) Of the 17 staff appointed in category A 13 have been appointed to a higher grade than A 7 (Regulations provide for a limitation to six nominations); all LA staff have not been appointed to a higher category than LA 7 (Regulations do not provide for such an option); of the 18 C 12 staff members have been appointed to a higher grade than the admission group for their career (Regulations provide that one of the six nominations); two of the three D staff members have been appointed to a higher grade than the admission group for their career (Regulations do not provide such a possibility); ^ 54. During the selection made by Cedefop 15, the aim was to regulate the situation of staff after moving to Thessaloniki.
No C 81/8 DE Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Failure to comply with the obligations relating to the trial period 60. Before the appointment of a staff member as an official for life, the staff member must pass the probationary period (Article 34 of the Staff Regulations); therefore, an objective ex post evaluation must be carried out after the probationary period;
61. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, officials have already been informed at the trial stage of the final appointment; the probationary period has been clearly defined as the necessary legal formality" (paragraph 4.1 of the Framework Agreement); a letter of 7 February 1995 to officials at trial, the second paragraph and the first paragraph of point (f) of the Annex: the probationary period is a formal legal formality which each official must carry out at trial stage). · During the trial period 62. According to Article 38 of the Staff Regulations only life officials may be seconded to other institutions, i.e. officials who have successfully completed the probationary period.
65. This means that a system has been established in which up to 50% of the remuneration of employees is transferred in the currency to which the higher adjustment rate applies (i.e. the adjustment rate applicable to Germany of 111,4%) than in Thessaloniki (in the case of Greece, the adjustment rate is 80,2 %).
The Commission has committed itself to introduce specific rules on mobility for the Centre.
These provisions are contrary to the principle of equal treatment for all officials.
Whereas Article 13 of Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 makes it clear that the Staff Regulations and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants apply to the staff of the Centre;
This means that all the provisions contained therein apply to the staff of the Centre, including Article 29 (1) (c), which concerns the acquisition of officials by other institutions.
The Court's audit showed that the Centre's work programme was not carried out as planned due to significant staff shortages.
This led to significant transfers and cancellations.
The audit also showed that effective administrative and accounting procedures have not yet been put in place.
68. Two Deputy Directors received a salary corresponding to the basic salary for four months; these payments and a payment of ECU 71 030 to one of the Deputy Directors were not in line with the principles of sound financial management and the interests of the Centre.
69. During the Court's audit, there were 79 approved posts, but only 37 people actually worked at the Centre.
17 staff were appointed EU officials," although they did not intend to move to Thessaloniki or were transferred by another Community institution.
Conclusion 71.It is understandable that efforts have been made in connection with moving to Thessaloniki to maintain staff in the EU institutions and to reduce complex moving problems.
However, the problem is that the regulatory framework "in which the move was carried out was not in line with the proper treatment of high-age workers and did not allow Cedefop to move smoothly without abandoning their activities.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 21 November 1996.
2 Operational expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure not specified Total Appropriations 7 649 3 991 4 850 10 16 500 • Fallen appropriations 1274 1097 821 254 2 563 374 10 0 4 668 1725 ANNEX 2 Available appropriations 581 431 1430 10 2 452 Fallen appropriations.
33 \ 88 175 0 296 V may receive fixed assets 1. Buildings and furniture Current assets 1. Stocks 2. Refundable amounts 3. Advances 4. VAT 5. Other expenditure to be recovered 1. Bank account 1994 1290 23 15 1 222 849 2168 1 125 1995 941 7 26 9 251 1962 5360 504 Debt 1994 1 3 1 2 967 232 394 6 330 2 5 5 693 (ECU 1 000) 1995 948 2 013 482 558 16 326 4 668 49 9 060 ANNEX 1 FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 - USE OF PAYMENT 5 693 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of information drawn up by Cedefop.
Budget 1995 (2000 ECU) Appropriations carried over from 1994 Payments 5 279 2 916 1912 0 10 107 Payments carried over 548 343 1255 10 2 156 Overpayment accounts as at 31 December 1995 9 060 Fixed capital 1. Own capital 2. Balance of the financial year Short-term liabilities 1. Salary deductions 2. Other liabilities Income to be recovered Amount to be recovered Transfers of late payments ·
TABLE 1 PAYMENT FROM THE SPECIFIC BUDGET ADOPTED IN 1995 (ECU) Staff expenditure Operational expenditure Operational expenditure Expenditure not specifically foreseen Total carry-overs 1995 1 273 814 820 797 2 563 677 10 000 4 668 288 The share of the carry-over of the original budget in % 16,7 20,6 52.9 100,0, 28,3 Over the period 1.-31.
3. Transfers made in 1996 1 048 148 '500 982 883 883 0 2 423 013 The share of transfers made in 1995 in % 82 61 34 0 52 Total (a)
The Administrative Board will proceed in accordance with the breakdown of the Court of Auditors' observations and conclusions.
3. The Administrative Board has reasonable expectations that all decentralised institutions and bodies will be treated in the same way and based on the same technical standards and procedures ensuring equal treatment.
4. The Administrative Board considers that the uniform presentation of the problems does not mention the essential facts which could be summarised as follows: the decision of the European Council of 29 October 1993 was taken without prior assessment of the effects of such a transfer.
During his first meeting with the staff, he expressed his firm willingness to move as of 1 September 1995, in line with the schedule that CEDEFOP maintained despite the problems of moving the centre. • He sent a letter to the responsible Commissioners, Mr van Miert and Mr Ruberti.
On 18 November 1994, the members of the Commission adopted the President and Vice-Chairs of the Management Board of CEDEFOP.
The President called on the Commission to develop accompanying measures, especially for those workers who were unable to leave Berlin.
In the light of the regulations in force, the Commissioners considered that they were ready to examine the specific problems of some workers in a positive and pragmatic spirit.
At its meeting of 8 and 9 December 1994, the Administrative Council was unable to decide on the date of the transfer, as this seems unacceptable to workers who could not move to Thessaloniki without the easy release of the modern social plan.
At the same meeting, the Administrative Board asked the Director to prepare an administrative decision (to be taken at an extraordinary meeting on 27 January 1995), which provided for the transfer of the Centre in a socially compatible manner on 1 September." In the second half of 1994, the Council began to examine the Commission's proposal to amend Article 13 of the Regulation applicable to CEDEFOP, which provided that the Centre's staff would be subject to the rules and rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Director accepted this amendment as the basis for the Framework Agreement on accompanying measures for the transfer of CEDEFOP to Thessaloniki.
A framework agreement with staff was signed on 23 January 1995.
The preparations were carried out in close cooperation with the European Commission, which proved to be very helpful throughout the transition period (1994-1996).
13. 3.97 P in the Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/13 were able to move to Thessaloniki.
Under the framework agreement, workers who were unable to leave Berlin decided to make themselves available to other EU institutions or public/private organisations and to receive remuneration from the Centre for at least six months, with a monthly salary paid for each work year started.
The principle of payment of monthly salaries for each year of service is largely consistent with social plans and usual practices in Germany and neighbouring countries. • Early retirement was considered in 1995 for 17 employees (age over 55, age over 10 and over 50, age over 15).
These measures were not part of the Framework Agreement and were not finally proposed by the Commission on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers of 17 November 1995 on the release of officials following the accession of the new Member States only of officials of the European Parliament.
In its opinions on point 46.466, the Governing Board will provide even more detailed answers.
In general, it should be stressed that political issues should be taken seriously and ex post criticism avoided.
The transfer of a complete Community body within a restrictive framework of a large number of regulations and due to a large number of social and individual problems is indeed exceptional in the history of the Community.
5. The Administrative Board shall return in response to the exception mentioned in the last sentence.
8. The costs of meetings of the Management Board in 1995 are due to the need for two additional meetings (January and June) related to the transfer.
In addition, the December 1995 meeting resulted in higher costs related to the official start-up in Greece.
Only two meetings are planned in 1996.
13. The Management Board regrets that the Court has not responded to the European Parliament's decision to suspend discharge in respect of the implementation of the 1994 budget.
This appears on serious issues because the European Parliament considered that the 1994 discharge in respect of the Court of Auditors' report for 1994 and the Council recommendation on 1994 discharge should be treated in a manner consistent with ordinary rules and practices; therefore, the evaluation of the 1995 financial year by the European Parliament without the report of the Court of Auditors for 1995, on which the Administrative Board could express itself, should lead to a combination of very different situations; in 1995 the Centre was transferred to Greece.
The transfer took place smoothly and under acceptable conditions.
This transfer requires a transitional period which can only be completed in 1997 because of the distortions that the workers were exposed to.
15. There is a significant improvement in this respect.
In the initial phase in Thessaloniki, employees helped each other to do their job.
16. As already mentioned last year, the increased use of the pre-financing system was a financial controller at the request, which justified this indicator of costs and benefits, and the previous system caused high fast delivery costs and caused delays.
As a result, the financial controller had to act more frequently.
The use of the pre-financing procedure for all expenditure that may require temporary budgetary commitments reduced administrative costs and prevented delays.
The situation becomes even more difficult due to payment conditions in Greece (most payments are made in cash or cheque).
Invoices on which bank connections are exchanged are rare; contractors themselves collect their debts.
The geographical distance from the financial controller and the lack of reliability of postal supplies should also be taken into account.
In addition, DHL's delivery costs can only be made once a week (3 000 BFR per consignment).
The amendment to the decision establishing the pre-financing procedure will soon be submitted to the Management Board in order to better take account of the wishes of the Court of Auditors.
17. The transfer of appropriations over the last two months results from the need to make optimal use of the budget (from which 2 000 000 ECU was deferred and released only before the Centre was transferred to Thessaloniki) and from the decision of the Governing Board (7/8.12.1995) to recruit national experts seconded in accordance with the Commission's recommendations (also to speed up the work of the Centre).
19. The Administrative Board was aware that 1995 and 1996 would be a transitional and renewable period.
A certain reduction in efficiency is inevitable in the case of this international transfer, which, according to the Management Board, has been carried out in an acceptable and efficient manner.
The Centre is still facing problems arising from the transition period.
20. Due to the fact that the transfer of the centre took place with a very limited number of employees, administrative work and all other services slowed down.
Consequently, an application was submitted and a non-automatic transfer of appropriations was approved.
The Administrative Board shall state that the Commission shall make every effort to ensure compliance with the provisions of Article 26 of the Financial Regulation concerning the Centre and the payment of grants in accordance with actual needs during the first two weeks of the quarter.
There was an improvement in 1995 compared to 1994.
However, the long internal procedures (in which the issuing authority, the financial controller and the accounting officer participates) and the duration of the transfer procedure by the bank do not avoid a complete delay in the period (on average 12 days in 1995).
However, almost three payments would be made in 1995 in accordance with the provisions of Article 26 as they took place at the centre less than four days after the first two weeks of the quarter.
If the processing period for all payments (9 to 22 days) corresponds on average to a 12-day period, all payments would be made in accordance with Article 26 of the Financial Regulation.
The first payment was not in line with the rules, but such payment must be preceded by a budgetary commitment which takes some time.
23. The deputy director moved from Thessaloniki to Berlin because it was uncertain about the actual date of the transfer of the centre.
At the time of appointment (1 October 1994) no decision has yet been taken on the date of removal (which could be postponed).
He hoped that his stay would be short, but his final period was still unknown.
For normal family reasons, he moved to Berlin under status conditions.
daily travel allowances have been granted in accordance with the same procedure as for other staff;
As regards the second development aid, the Deputy Director returned this amount to the Centre after carrying out the inspection, although he was fully entitled to receive the aid.
24. At its meeting in June 1995, the Administrative Board announced its agreement on 31 December 1995 and instructed the Director to implement this Decision and make payments in accordance with the Staff Regulations.
The Management Board was pleased that the Deputy Director was ready to participate in the implementation of the work programme in 1995 and to assist the Centre in re-starting its activities in Thessaloniki.
The compensation (payment of one third of the basic salary from the date on which the obligation to provide the service expired until the date of expiry of the contract) was in line with its contract and Article 47 BBSB.
25. Given the difficulties associated with the initial phase and the large number of new contracts, the Centre was not able in any case to carry out normal tendering procedures.
For long-term contracts, tendering procedures are currently under way or are planned for 1996.
In addition, in order to ensure sustainable financial management during the year, the Management Board would prefer to adopt a work programme so that the services could have the time needed for calls for tenders and budgetary commitments and that these agreements could be concluded in the first months of the financial year.
26. 40% of the commitments for the budget line Pilot studies and projects (ECU 300,000) have been implemented in the last months of the year, resulting from the late budget mobilisation by the budgetary authority in 1995 and the transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki.
The Centre had to act logically and consistently, and it did not leave it any other choice, since it first had to meet its financial obligations under Titles I and II and only after the late appropriations had been released could it have entered into further commitments under Title III.
The possibility of secondment of national experts was granted by the Governing Board at its December 1995 meeting and could only be financed by late appropriations.
The Director had to act quickly and in a short time to prevent the loss of funds (which had only become very late).
The invitation of an expert (Austrian) (which was officially supported by the government) was already available at the beginning of 1995.
27. The reason why the January 1996 rent was included in the 1995 accounts was purely practical.
According to the contract, the rent must be paid in advance in two instalments on 1 January and 1 July.
Since the first payment was made only in October 1995 and immediate payment on 1 January 1996 would be difficult, the first payment was made for a period of five months which covered January 1996.
28. The update of the list is ongoing.
29. This will be fulfilled.
30. The Centre shall ensure that realistic information on cash flows is provided to the Commission.
The last payment per year should be the largest, as it must also be intended to cover the first months of the following year, in which larger payments are usually made.
31. See comments to point 4.32. The Centre's administration shall assess the costs of the transfer and the development of the situation in order to obtain a complete picture of the costs and benefits of the transfer to Greece.
13. 3.97 AND DE 1 ^ Official Journal of the European Communities C 81/15 36.-37.
As the Centre was expected to resume work immediately after moving, some additional investments and changes in V were needed.
As stated, the agreements do not contain a clear statement, because the centre requires more electrical connections and computer cables than it currently does.
Other investments concerned additional security and communication needs such as "Europe by Satellite" for the direct reception of consignments through the institution.
However, the Centre included questions concerning the temporary building on the agenda of the Steering Committee, which deals with the new and (if necessary) temporary building.
The Administrative Board is aware of the fact that the content of the agreement on the new building has placed a great deal of responsibility on the Greek Government, which now meets the provisions of the agreement.
Two issues raise particular concerns: it is extremely important to ensure a high quality building at a reasonable price; it is extremely important to ensure timely completion of the building (if possible before 1 September 1998).
The fact that significant payments have been made in advance (half of the building has already been paid, although construction works have not yet started) may also have positive effects as construction works (after selecting the construction plan and the construction company in October/November 1996) can quickly develop due to the immediate availability of the necessary financial resources.
Overall, the Management Board fully understood the Court's concerns, also shared by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Kellet-Bowmann and Mr Tappin, who visited the Centre on 1-2 May and 14-15 May.
The Management Board shall be prepared to take action on this matter in accordance with the recommendations of the Commission.
42. The staffing situation was very complicated due to the various accompanying measures, but all those on the CEDEFOP payroll who were not made available to other organisations or who were posted to Berlin worked for CEDEFOP and its work programme.
43. The Administrative Board has decided on accompanying measures for the transfer (Framework Agreement) in order to take appropriate measures as soon as possible" (see statements in the Council Protocol).
The evaluation of actions must therefore take into account their political context.
The Centre is located in Thessaloniki and the Management Board and the Director decide on the organisation of the work.
Undoubtedly, some positions are blocked as long as social support measures are effective.
However, almost all activities will be completed at the end of 1996 and CEDEFOP will be able to operate fully on the basis of medium-term priorities (to be adopted by the Administrative Statute in November 1996) and the 1997 Work Programme, which is also based on these priorities.
Therefore, from 1997 CEDEFOP will enter the future with a renewed and new approach.
44. People who, for social or personal reasons, cannot leave Berlin when the fixed period of stay in Berlin ends, have three alternatives.
Consequently, the Court of First Instance issued three provisions rejecting requests for interim proceedings.
They must move, resign from the service of the Centre or find solutions in accordance with the Staff Regulations.
45. The effects in 1996 are obviously serious, but will be minimal after the first months of 1997.
The transfer had its consequences and costs.
However, if we compare them with a similar transfer at national level, such as CEREQ (Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches sur les Qualifications) from Paris to Marseille (where only 21 out of 120 workers moved from the centre), CEDEFOP did not have a negative impact on the international transfer to a distance of almost 2000 km.
Careful cost estimates show that cost neutrality will be achieved in 2000 and then work will be even more cost-effective (mainly due to lower labour costs in Greece). 46-66.
(c) Following the decision of the Governing Council of 27 January 1995, the Council amended on 6 February 1995 (Regulation (EC) No 251/95) Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 in order to ensure that the staff of the Centre are subject to the rules and rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities."
Despite the absence of transitional provisions, such as the adoption of Council Regulation (EEC, Eura: torn, ECSC) No 269/68 (see Article 102 of the status of officials of the European Communities).
(d) Since Community law did not provide for transitional measures, the Administrative Board had no choice other than to act under its own responsibility in order to protect the rights and interests of CEDEFOP employees. (e) It should not be forgotten that Regulation (EC) No 251/95, which moved the seat of CEDEFOP from Berlin to Thessaloniki, meant a sudden change of place of employment as referred to in the employment contracts: Berlin was the only place of residence of CEDEFOP for 20 years and has never had the slightest reference to this place since 10 February 1975.
On this basis, CEDEFOP employees entered into a contract of employment and adjusted their private decisions accordingly (place of employment of spouses, training of children). (f) In these circumstances, the Management Board was required to provide workers with a high level of safety in the workplace (appointing officials for life), its category, grade and grade, and staff who wanted to help find work elsewhere. (g) The Management Board also wishes to stress that the positions approved by the CEDEFOP budgetary authority were permanent posts.
In accordance with Articles 2 and 8 of the Conditions of Employment of Other EC Servants, these posts may be filled only by officials or temporary staff. (h) Furthermore, the text of Regulation (EC) No 251/95 (including Regulation (EC) No 251/95 (clear that the staff of the Centre is subject to the rules and rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities) provides for the employment of officials.
Since the posts completed by the staff are permanent, the decision on the status of civil servants instead of fixed-term contracts was appropriate and justified.
The Administrative Board also wishes to comment on the specific issues raised by the Court: 46th (last sentence) The Management Board had a choice as to whether to appoint employees as lifelong officials or to propose two-year agreements to them (see opinion in point (g) above).
It was considered unacceptable to require workers to move from Berlin to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract.
48. Although it is true that the Administrative Board has not formally presented its findings to the financial controller in order to obtain confirmation, the latter has nevertheless been informed of the decisions taken.
At the time of signing the agreement, it has not yet been established what the financial consequences of the agreement will be due to independent individual decisions taken by employees.
It offered a framework that was the basis for individual decisions and was fully approved by the financial controller during his visit to Berlin.
50-51.
In view of the above, the decision (see note, second indent) was the only possible decision.
According to a clear statement from the Commission (see the last sentence of the declaration concerning the Council protocols in the Annex), there must be no deterioration of the conditions of employment of CEDEFOP staff."
The Commission's Legal Service's observations, cited only partially in point 56, leave sufficient room for such a decision to be taken.
The Administrative Board recalls that, in accordance with Article 29 of the Staff Regulations, the appointing authority is empowered to carry out internal selection procedures to fill vacant posts in the institution (paragraph lb).
The selection procedures have been carried out in full compliance with Annex III to the Staff Regulations.
55. The purpose and responsibility of the Governing Board was to provide as many CEDEFOP staff as possible who agreed to move to Thessaloniki.
Whereas it must not be overlooked that Regulation (EC) No 251/95 amended the provisions applicable to staff with effect from 1 March 1995 and that the move to Thessaloniki took place in August of the same year;
The Administrative Board was based on the following considerations: it was unthinkable to require workers to move to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year agreement (note g) and paragraph 46 above); there was not enough time to carry out a general selection procedure before moving to Thessaloniki, and in this case it would not be realistic to expect workers to move without safe employment.
13. 3.97 DE in the Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/17 56.-59./ The Management Board has already explained (see above, note (e)) that moving to Thessaloniki meant a sudden shift in employment which inevitably caused social problems and for a certain period had an impact on productivity.
A demand from employees to move after a low grade or grade assignment would make their situation even worse.
The Commission's Legal Service note referred to in point 56 contains sufficient arguments in point (d) to justify the position adopted by the Centre. 60.-61.
All staff applying for the appointment of life-long officials have completed the probationary period provided for in Article 34 of the status.
62. In accordance with note (f), the third indent above, the Administrative Board considered it its obligation to assist the worker in an acceptable manner.
This view was also shared by the Commission's Legal Service.
65. The provisions governing the way in which transfers of funds are made in part of remuneration provide for the possibility of increasing this percentage from 35 to 50% on a case-by-case basis where there are reasonable grounds as referred to in Article 4 of the Regulation.
The Framework Agreement allowed for individual cases and for certain obligations provided for in the Staff Regulations which were received before 29 October 1993 (the date on which the European Council decided to transfer the Centre), the transfer of a higher percentage (> 35%" in accordance with the Statute but < 50%).
In the case of CEDEFOP, the application of these rules is completely different and only applies to a limited number of people with high obligations in Berlin.
66. The Administrative Board thankes the Commission for the assistance it has provided in many cases in finding alternative jobs for workers who have not been able to move to Thessaloniki, as well as for any other assistance that the Centre has provided almost daily during the move.
68. See comments from the Management Board regarding paragraphs 23 and 24.69 to 70.
See in particular the general comments in paragraphs 46 to 66.
71. The Administrative Board regrets the fact that the legislator has not included any transitional provisions in Regulation (EC) No 251/95 to address the difficult staff problems arising from the move to Thessaloniki.
In the absence of appropriate instruments, the Management Board was all the more obliged to support CEDEFOP staff.
The Administrative Board considers that it acted in an acceptable and truly unprecedented manner under these circumstances.
Finally, it was clear that he had to make the same efforts (as the Court considers) because his duty, as an employer, is to carry out an international process of winding up a complete institution in a socially acceptable manner.
The Administrative Board, the Director and staff acted in this positive spirit and could take certain risks but did not abuse power or act in an illegal manner.
Report from the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation) (97/C 81/02) (Remarks pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 188c (4) of the EC Treaty) ON THE FINANCIALITY OF THE EUROPEAN FUND FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIFE AND WORK FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 SUMMARY OF THE CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONS OF CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONSIASJI CONVERSIONSJI CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSION CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONS CONVERSIONS CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONSSIONS CONVERSIONS AND CONVERSIONSSIONS CONVERSIONSSIONS AND CONVERSIONS THE CONVERSIONSSIONS ON THE JOURNANCES OF FACILITIES ON PAGE 22
This report shall be forwarded to the Council and the European Parliament in accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (OJ L 365, 17.12.1970, p. 1).
2. The Court examined the accounts of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ending 31 December 1995.
In accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93
16) was carried out under the responsibility of the Management Board.
In accordance with Articles 52, 54 and 55 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93
26), amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76
The Court of Auditors shall be required to audit the accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
3. The Court has carried out an audit in accordance with generally accepted control standards, insofar as they apply to the Community context; it has therefore carried out accounting checks and has applied other control procedures which it considered necessary in this context. 4.
The financial year set up in December 1995 is to contribute to the creation and creation of better living and working conditions through measures to promote and disseminate knowledge that can support this development."
Dublin Foundation started operating in 1976.
Scope of audit 6. The Court of Auditors reviewed the annual accounts and financial management of the Dublin Foundation in 1995 in accordance with the relevant regulations (2).
Financial data 7. For the financial year 1995 the Foundation had funds of ECU 12.5 million.
These commitments led to a payment of ECU 9.3 million and a transfer of ECU 3 million for the 1996 financial year, the remaining amount being cancelled of ECU 0.2 million.
From the appropriations carried over from the previous year, ECU 1,9 million were paid and ECU 0,2 million was cancelled.
Annex 3 to this report shall include an analysis of the use of appropriations from the financial year and appropriations carried over from 1994 by title.
Continuation of earlier observations Separation of tasks 8. The Court reiterates its earlier observations that the tasks of the authorising officer and the accounting officer are not sufficiently separated.
This is contrary to Article 15 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, according to which the principle of "missing authorising officers and accounting officers" and the actions of the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer [...]'.
The paying agency 9. A significant part of the payment (1995: 59%, no remuneration) remains without the prior consent of the financial controller.
The scope of use of the paying agency is not in line with the financial rules.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 on the establishment of the Foundation (OJ L 373, 20.12.2013, p. 1).
as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 139, 30.5. 1975), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 164, 24.6.1976), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93.
No C 81/20 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Current or minor expenditure for which the risk of irregularities is relatively low should be cleared by the paying agency; the Foundation, in agreement with the financial controller, should state in writing what is to be understood as current and smaller expenditure.
In 1995 the Foundation continued to transfer the title appropriations (see paragraph 16).
This is contrary to Article 21 of Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 on ECU 1 494 000 (11.9% of the budget), whereas in 1994 they were still ECU 75600 (6,5%).
16. As a result of transfers of ECU 500,000 under Title 1 (personel) to Title 3 (operational expenditure), the Foundation may have transferred commitments to the following financial year which had otherwise to be cancelled in accordance with Article 6 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76.
As stated in paragraph 10, the Court considers that such transfers in title are contrary to financial rules.
Transfers and cancellations of appropriations 17. According to Annex 3, the account shall show a total payment rate of 75%, while the payment rate in Title 3 for operational expenditure shall be only 54%.
Table 1 is broken down by transfer from the 1995 budget and then used in 1996.
The transfers under Title 3 amounted to 45% of the original measures.
Only 20% of transfers were used until the end of March 1996.
Revenue of the 18th EU subsidy to the Foundation in 1995 amounted to ECU 12.5 million.
In fact, the amounts requested and received amounted to ECU 2,5 million at 26 April 1995, ECU 2 million at 14 June 1995, ECU 4,3 million at 12 October 1995 and ECU 1,3 million at 31 December 1995.
The difference of ECU 2,4 million corresponds to unnecessary financial measures which were not made available to the Commission in accordance with the Court's recommendation of the previous year.
As in previous years, the financing formula does not comply with Article 26 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93, which provides for the payment of grants during the first half of each quarter.
19. Pursuant to Article 63 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, contracts with a value exceeding ECU 12 000 must be awarded by invitation to tender.
The following exceptions were made: in the case of a contract worth ECU 533 072 for the purpose of carrying out a pan-European examination of working conditions, a contract was awarded free of charge in a sample of 26 contracts selected for inspection pursuant to Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93.
13. 3.97 D in OJ C 81/21, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993, granted free of charge; in three cases (computer supplies in one case and study contracts in another) Article 46 was applied in order to avoid a tendering procedure.
20. In two cases, it was found that expenditure had been cleared before the budgetary commitment was made.
In one case, the accounts for November and December 1994 were included in commitments entered into in 1995, although the framework agreement between the Foundation and the contractor started on 1 January 1995.
21. In a sample of 10 student contracts that was analysed, five employment contracts received final reports only one month after the date specified in the contract.
22. During the audit, the Court found that the documents had been amended by the corrective fluid: On 17 December 1994, the date of the invoice faxed to the financial controller above 45 365 DM (ECU 23 817) was replaced by the corrective liquid and manually amended on 17 January 1995 on 17 December 1994.
The financial controller confirmed its decision on the basis of this fax and the change of date • resulted in expenditure being booked to cover the 1994 transfers and not 1995 appropriations.
It is not clear what amount the approval of the financial controller refers to.
27. The control of the payment sample revealed problems in the management of contracts and incorrect changes in relevant documents, see paragraphs 19 to 22.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 7 November 1996.
No C 81/22 1 PL [Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Assets 1994 Assets 1. Building 7106 2.Meble 1 0 8 5 Current assets 1. Stocks 21 2. Refundable amounts 3.Travel advances 8 4. Miscellaneous advances 1 5. Bank charges 6 Cash accounts 1. Bank account in ecus 4488. most in advance accounts 104 - 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1 most of the fixed capital 1. Own capital 2. Balance of the financial year Current liabilities 1. Salary deductions Non-recoverable funds for re-use Appropriations carried over 1994 8 211 1 4 4 4 10 440 109 2 061 1214 13 389 (1000 ECU) 1995'8 479 -2 040 18 306 224 3 012 75 750 ANNEX 1 MOVEMENT TO 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 750 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of information provided by the Dublin Foundation.
1 097 305 - 5 8 (ECU 1 000) 1995 10 143 165 39 10 347 5 185 28 833 177 3 320.2 807 12 350 -2 003 147-184 -2040 EXPENDITURE Staff 1. Payments in year 2. Appropriations carried over Administrative expenditure 1. Payments in year 2. Appropriations carried over Operational expenditure 1. Payments in year 2. Appropriations carried over Result of previous year (a) previous year (b) Difference in the exchange rate during total expenditure period (b) Appropriations carried over in year 1344 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of information provided by the Dublin Foundation."
Total (a) Balance of year
No C 81/24 DE Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Title 1 Staff expenditure Final appropriations 5 316 1 0 5 0 6 174 Payments 5 185 (97.5) 833 (79.3) 3 320 (53.8) Transfers 28 (0.5) 177 (16.9) 2 807 (45.4) Cancellation 103 (2) 40 (3.8) 47 (0.8) 190 (1.5) Available appropriations 160 169 1732 2 061 Payments 131 (81.9) 141 (84.4) 1642 (94.8) 1914 (92.9) Cancellation 29 (18.1) 28 (16.1) 90 (5.2) 147 (7,1).
2. Current operational expenditure 3. Operational expenditure Total 3 012 (24) ANNEX 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 - USE OF RESOURCES 12 540 Figures in brackets correspond to the percentage of the final or available appropriations.
Title 1 2 3 Transfers from the financial year 1995 27 956 177 357 2 806 626 3 011 938 Transfers in % of the original budget At 31 3 1996 Transfers (%) Total Budget 1995 (ECU 1 000) Transfers from 1994 9 338 (74.5) TABLE 1 Transfers from the previous budget 1995 (ECU) 0,5 16,9 45,4 24 27 134 97 67 932 38 504 720 18 599 786 20
13. 3. 97 and DE in OJ C 81/25 ANS. 8. The Foundation has introduced a number of measures to separate the tasks of authorising officer from the duties of accounting officer.
The Court of Auditors noted these initiatives in previous reports.
The only problem in practice is the procedure whereby the authorising officer records expenditure in the existing integrated accounting system.
This problem will be resolved once the Foundation has created a new accounting system.
Following the 1995 consultation, the Foundation and other EU agencies participated in a joint procurement procedure for the purchase of the relevant accounting system in 1996.
As a result, however, none of the candidates met the institution's 100% requirements.
Following detailed contacts with the Commission services, it is expected that in 1997 the Foundation will acquire an appropriate accounting system from the Commission after the final completion of the work on an appropriate system that meets the Agency's technical and legal requirements.
9. The Foundation contacted the Commission services to address the identified problem.
The Foundation has been informed that this issue will be discussed between the Commission and the European Parliament in the framework of an ongoing dialogue on the Agency's Financial Regulation.
10. Following the last Court of Auditors report, the Foundation asked the Commission services to clarify the Foundation's Financial Regulation for these transfers.
The Foundation is currently informed by DG XIX that transfers have been made in accordance with the Foundation's Financial Regulation (see also paragraph 16).
11. All missions to the Foundation have been documented and approved by the authorising officer after ensuring that they comply with the Foundation's work programme or administrative requirements.
The Foundation shall review its procedures for recording and searching the necessary documentation concerning missions.
The Foundation Regulation requires consultation of the European institutions and involvement of the social partners in their work.
In recent years, there has been an in-depth exchange of information with relevant EU bodies in Brussels, but the number of missions to Brussels has not increased.
No business trips shall be carried out if other means of communication may be used.
Telephones, internet, e-mail and other electronic tools are used as far as possible. In November 1995, a pilot conference was also launched.
There were also experiments at Com-puter conferences.
14. On the basis of the request made by the Irish authorities, lawyers are currently preparing a revised lease agreement.
16. As mentioned in paragraph 10 above, the Commission informed the Foundation that the transfer data were fully in line with the Financial Regulation; it was possible to use the funds allocated to it by decision of the budgetary authority in the most effective manner with the support of the Foundation.
However, the Foundation appreciates the position of the Court of Auditors and Parliament and makes efforts to ensure that such transfers take place only in urgent cases.
These agreements mainly concerned research with 12-month implementation deadlines.
18. The Foundation will remind the Commission services that payments must be made by the 15th quarter of each quarter.
19. The Treaty on the European examination of working conditions indicates that this agreement was concluded on the basis of a framework agreement between the European Commission and INRA (Europe) drawn up in the framework of an open tender procedure for "Eurobaromètre-Stan-dard."
The contracts awarded free of charge were fully in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation and with the criteria that must be met in this respect; Article 46 (d) was applied to the supply of computers.
Only one supplier had the required software and special multitasks and provided local support: the other two contracts refer to research proposals.
The Administrative Board of the Foundation at its meeting on 25 March 1994 approved the introduction of new procedures, which should be fully operational in 1995, for contracts based on calls for expressions of interest published in the Official Journal and for tenders.
Both agreements were concluded during a transitional period defined by the Governing Board.
20. The Foundation operates a decentralised procurement system.
These two accounts were part of a series of orders submitted by an operational unit whose total orders exceeded the financial obligations.
Appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent the repetition of these activities.
The introduction of a new accounting system should ensure the automatic implementation of the required controls.
21. Monitoring of the implementation of study contracts takes place on a monthly basis in the framework of programme management.
22. The contract was discontinued in respect of the services concerned on 11 October 1994.
The change of date on the invoice had no impact on the transfer.
Nevertheless, the official was judged.
In the future, the required manually adjustments will be signed and dated.
13. 3.97 [Official Journal of the European Communities C 81/27 Report on the annual accounts of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA-London) together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/03) (1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in accordance with Article 57 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (a) 1.2.
The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 57 (7) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director.
Whereas it is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice (2), subject to the application of the internal financial rules provided for in Article 57 (11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93; whereas, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to examine that invoice;
This is the Agency's first audit report.1.3.
The main observations arising from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report. 1.4. The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are generally guaranteed.
Ç) OJ L 343, 22.12.2009, p. 1.
[2] In accordance with the provisions of Article 57 (9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the invoice for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure was drawn up on 31 March 1996 for the 1995 financial year.
On 9 April 1996, the accounts were transferred to the Court.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Aid to the Commission ~ 1.5.
During the 1995 financial year, the Agency recovered a grant from the Commission (ECU 10.1 million) without issuing appropriate recovery orders.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.6.
Until August 1995, there was no commitment and payment log for this financial year.
At the end of the year, the Agency established an accounting system.
The Court found that this system allows for subsequent changes to bookings which would not be visible.
In the absence of commitments on a date, the available appropriations were exceeded (infringement of Articles 29, 35 and 36 of the Financial Regulation to the Agency), although the Executive Director presented an amending budget approved by the Management Board (moved from chapter to chapter).
By August 1995, the Agency cleared all payments via the paying agency.
Such additional use of the paying agency procedure is contrary to Article 45 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure. 1.8.
In addition, the Agency started clearing these expenditures only in September 1995.
Around ECU 937 000 had yet to be paid after the end of the financial year on 31 December 1995;
General account 1.9.
In connection with the liquidation by the paying agency, accounting and budgetary records were made in September and December 1995.
This is contrary to accounting rules.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 26 September 1996.
Result to be carried over Total 1. Appropriations carried over non-automatically 2. Automatic transfers of funds Total V Trust accounts 1994 1488 0 1488 1 0 1 8 2 831 3 849 31 3 34 0 5 371 (ECU 1 000) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 564 5 914 41 85 126 390 1226 199 1 815 10 800 TABLE 1 TRANSFER ON 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 800 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of information provided by the Agency.
• 6 800 13 6 813 413 226 2 568 3 618 5 6 830 - 17 - 17 (ECU 1 000) 1995 10 150 299 3 210 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551
13. 3.97 I DE Official Journal of the European Communities C 81/31 USES EMEA 1.6.
The commercial accounting systems available on the market do not take into account the specificities of Community financial rules.
The agencies therefore issued a call for tenders in 1995 for a system that meets their needs.
Until the introduction of the new system, the Agency cooperates with the Sheet Spread system.
Although this system may make subsequent changes to accounting records, they cannot be included in the accounting for budgetary operations.
However, these changes can be found in the overall financial statements.
All budget operations shall be documented.
In the initial period, pending the appointment of a financial controller at home, the paying agency was necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the Agency.
It was only in this way that the decisions of the Member States on the establishment of the Agency could be implemented swiftly;
With the start of the activities of the financial controller, the paying agency was less operational and closed at the end of July 1995 on 3 January 1995.
In December 1995, 75% of payments made by the paying agency were settled.
Even if a large amount could only be cleared in 1996, the Agency achieved a satisfactory final result and in difficult circumstances did everything it could.
That report shall be submitted to the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market in accordance with Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 (*).
The Court examined the annual accounts of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
Whereas, pursuant to Article 119 (2) (c) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2), the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office;
Whereas, pursuant to Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, it is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice (3), complying with internal rules; whereas, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to check that invoice;
This is a report from the Office's first audit. 1.3.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Aid to the Commission 1.5.
During the 1995 financial year, the Authority made only ECU 6.8 million (68%) ver-i1).
OJ L 11, 14.1.1994, p. 33.
(3) In accordance with Article 137 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts relating to all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 29 March 1996, signed by the President of the Office and forwarded to the Commission, the Budget Committee and the Court of Auditors.
On 2 April 1996, the accounts were transferred to the Court.
The tables attached to this report present these financial statements in a summary form.
The Court considered that the Authority should have issued a recovery order for the entire budget (ECU 10,1 million) in order to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 4,6 million).
During the financial year 1995, the Authority established an accounting system.
This is contrary to the internal Financial Regulation (Articles 4 (1) and 29 (1)).
Transfers and transfers of funds 1.7.
The appropriations carried over to 1996 represent 46% of the budget and relate primarily to computer equipment (Titles II and III of the budget).
In addition, the appropriations available were the subject of transfers under Title I (personal) to Title II (current expenditure) of a total of ECU 2,529 million (25% of the budget).
That list shall be kept only in quantitative terms but not in value.
It is therefore impossible to adapt to the amounts entered in the Office's balance sheet.
The management system established by the Authority shall not ensure adequate division of responsibilities and proper implementation of the provisions on income, commitments and payments (authorised authorising officer, financial controller and accounting officer).
The Authority is currently located in the building of the Spanish Government.
However, there is no contract for the use of this building.
In order to ensure its final establishment in the future, the Authority should clarify the need to maintain its services.
13. 3.97 AND DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/33 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 26 September 1996.
TABLE 1 STATISTICALS FOR 31 DECEMBER 1995 "2 17 1 4 2 7 194 3 469 1487 15 3 275 1 879 6127 Accruals 15 Total liabilities 1487 6 127 169
No C 81/36 p 5 in the Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 ANSWERS ADOPTED BY THE COMMISSION 1.5.
The need for a recovery order was not aware of either the Commission or OHIM.
OHIM took note of this remark from the Court of Auditors and caused the recovery order to be issued immediately for the financial year 1996 for the entire amount of aid minus the reserve.
Accounting for budgetary transactions 1.6 It is true that the accounting system currently applied by OHIM allows subsequent changes in accounting;
For the period until the introduction of the Sincom2 system developed by the Commission, OHIM has taken organisational action to provide additional security guarantees when using the current system.
Until then, OHIM has no choice but to wait for the Commission's accounting system, which should be available before the end of the year, because the development of such a system means a large financial burden which the Authority itself cannot bear.
In 1995, the Authority's budget was adopted with a reserve of ECU 2 million required by Parliament for a general budget of EUR 10.1 MECU.
The reserve was abolished in two stages: ECU 1 million in October 1995 and the balance in November 1995.
The temporary blocking of measures had, of course, an impact on their use, especially in Title I (Personal), as it was not certain that the reserves would be effectively abolished.
OHIM was under no circumstances able to decide on the employment of employees until the remuneration was provided by the end of the financial year.
Following the release of the reserves, measures were taken to use the appropriations allocated on budget lines where this was possible due to deadlines for procedures for budgetary commitments and where there were real needs.
Therefore, the Authority requested a transfer of Title I funds to Title II in order to create, in particular, computer equipment^, which was particularly needed at the initial stage of the Authority.
It should be recalled that OHIM started operations on 1 April 1996 and that more than 30,000 applications for a trade mark have been received since, while the workload for the entire financial year has been estimated at 15 000 applications.
List 1.8. At the time of the Court's review, OHIM had only received software from the Commission for the computer management of the register which was installed.
Division of tasks 1.9.
In reply to the reply to the Court of Auditors, it was clarified that the question concerned the order of signatures to be used in the procedures for commitments and payments.
It is therefore not a mistake with regard to the liability of the authorising officer, the accounting officer and the financial controller.
Rather, the observations concerned the fact that the operation was first signed by the accounting officer and subsequently by the authorising officer. · This approach had the advantage that, at the initial stage of the Authority's operation, when the fund manager had not yet been in place, the funds were available before the authorising officer approved the operation; after OHIM now has a manager of funds, the following order of signatures can be observed in the various budgetary documents: 1. The manager of appropriations, 2. the authorising officer, 3. the financial controller, 4. the accounting officer.
Fixed assets 1.10.
There is an agreement (see copy in annex) between the Minister of Industry of the Government of Spain
13. 3.97 ~D in OJ C 81/37 and Internal Market Commissioner Vanni d'Archirafi. On the basis of this agreement, the Spanish authorities make the building (temporary seat) available to the Authority free of charge and the building in which the Office is currently accommodated.
In accordance with that agreement, the Spanish Government will take action to provide the Authority with its final seat.
On 3 July 1996, the Spanish authorities decided on the land and tender specifications for the construction of the building.
This specification will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 30 July of this year (invitation to submit tenders).
Following these recent developments, the Authority shall immediately take the necessary steps.
This report shall be transmitted to the Governing Board of the European Training Foundation in accordance with Article 11 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 of 7 May 1990 0.
The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 11 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Director.
Whereas, in accordance with Article 11 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, it is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice (2), respecting the internal financial rules; whereas, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to examine that invoice;
This is a report from the Foundation's first study.
The Court carried out an audit in accordance with generally accepted control standards to the extent that they apply to the Community context.
He carried out accounting checks and applied other control procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The main observations arising from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report.
(2) In accordance with Article 11 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the accounts relating to all the Foundation's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 31 March 1996, signed by the Director of the Foundation and forwarded to the Commission, the Governing Board and the Court of Auditors.
The tables attached to this report present this financial information in a summary form.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Accounting for budgetary operations 1.5.
This system and systematic handling through the paying agency may lead to an overrun of appropriations.
Paying agency 1.6.
In 1995 the Foundation cleared all payments through the paying agency.
This is not in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Foundation, which provides for such a procedure only for certain types of expenditure.
Moreover, the settlement of these expenditures was delayed as the relevant documents had to be sent to the financial audit in Brussels.
Orders 1.7. ^ The Foundation awarded several out of ECU 0.4 million to use the funds available at the end of the financial year.
However, the Commission failed to comply with the rules on public procurement, in particular as regards the price or performance competition (Articles 45 to 51 of the Financial Regulation for the Foundation).
Financial controller 1.8.
Given the current situation, the Foundation's internal control system could be improved by assigning its financial controller to the Commission acting on the spot.
13. 3.97 AND DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/39 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 10 October 1996.
C 81/40 1 PL 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Assets Assets 1. Fixed assets 2.Materials and furniture Operating values 1. Office materials Partial total Values recoverable 1.VAT 2. Aid for recovery 1994 0 • 35 0 35 0 0 0 0 1995 0 568 0 568 0 568 0 568 0 543 24 5 6 7.
3 398 Liabilities Fixed capital 1. Own capital 2. To carry forward Total Appropriations carried over 1. Non-automatic 1994 35 184 219 319 2 481 2 800 72 63 135 11 3 165 (ECU 1 000) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 1985 2 127 77 0 77 195 4 533 Commission 3.V Settlement of cash accounts 1. Bank accounts Debtors Total TABLE 1 MINIMUM ACCOUNTING ON 31 DECEMBER 1995 Total assets Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of information provided by the Foundation. * Transfers of funds Automatic transfers of funds 3 130 3 165 partial Liabilities total 4 533 2. Short-term deductions 2. Λ staff V Deposit accounts Total
No C 81/42 in OJ of the European Communities 13. 3.97 FUNCTIONING ANSWERS 1.5.
Balance sheet accounting - The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
In addition, it has played a key role in the implementation of the single system of budgetary and financial management in all departments.
Discussions are currently underway with the responsible Commission services to overcome any concerns expressed by the Court of Auditors through the introduction of a new budgetary management system which will enter into force from 1 January 1997.
It should be noted that none of the available budgetary resources was exceeded during the period under review.
1.6. Management of advances It should be noted that advances were not used for all purchases of equipment or for participation in real estate which is a significant part of the budget.
In addition, in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation, the application of general pre-financing payments has now been limited and all accounting documents for the month concerned shall be sent to the accounting officer in Brussels within 10 and 20 of the following month.
On the one hand, the treaties under discussion, closely related to the activities and projects covered by the Foundation's work programme, represent a very small part of the Foundation's activities, both in terms of number and budget.
On the other hand, it is true that the inclusion of competition which led to the conclusion of these agreements took place informally.
This procedure was then chosen mainly because of the urgency of the case.
In addition, the purpose of these agreements was to organise conferences and seminars on behalf and on behalf of the Foundation and under its strict control.
The attached budget is divided into two parts: a fixed part of the remuneration (less than ECU 12 000) and an operational part which was previously established by the Foundation and postponed on the basis of supporting documents.
On the basis of these elements, the Foundation considered that the actual agreement did not exceed ECU 12 000.
When it became clear at the beginning of 1996 that the Court of Auditors did not share this opinion, the system was abandoned.
The Foundation's accounting officer shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (J1).
The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 13 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the budget has been implemented on the basis of the reply of the Executive Director.
Whereas it is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice (2), in accordance with the internal financial rules provided for in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 0; whereas, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to examine that invoice;
The Court carried out an audit in accordance with generally accepted control standards to the extent that they apply to the Community context.
He carried out accounting checks and applied other control procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are generally guaranteed.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Aid to the Commission 1.5.
During the 1995 financial year, the Agency introduced only part of the budget-i1) OJ L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 4.
(2) In accordance with Article 13 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts relating to all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 20 June 1996, signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
That report was forwarded to the Court of Auditors on 29 June 1996.
The tables attached to this report present these financial statements in a summary form.
The Court considers that for the financial year 1995 the Agency should have issued a recovery order (ECU 5.8 million) in order to meet the commitments carried over to the financial year 1996 (ECU 7 million in total); exceeding the appropriations 1.6.
Under Title I (personal expenditure) and Title II (current expenditure) of the budget, several overshoots of a total amount of approximately ECU 0,4 million were found.
This amount, which cannot be included in the 1995 budget, is included on the assets side of the balance sheet in the trust account and must be booked at the expense of the budget for the financial year 1996 (infringement of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency Financial Regulation).
Paying agency 1.7.
Almost all payments to be made under Titles I and II of the budget have been cleared through the paying agency.
The use of this paying agency is not in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation for the Agency as the advance administrator was then accounting and managing certain budgetary items.
Moreover, the deadlines for submitting supporting documents were not respected and the availability of payment appropriations was not checked.
This seems to be the main cause of these exceedances.
Moves 1.8.
As at the end of the financial year 1994, a very large part of the available funds (ECU 7 million of 57.2% of the total) was transferred at the end of 1995.
Most transfers concerned Title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6,4 million 90,3% of the appropriations entered in that Title).
A significant proportion (ECU 1,8 million) of appropriations carried over from 1994 to 1995 amounting to ECU 8,5 million had to be cancelled (21% of the appropriations carried over).
No C 81/44 ΓΟΕ" Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Subsequent requests from the financial controller 1.9.
Several applications for a commitment of ECU 0,5 million were submitted to the financial controller at a later stage.
In these cases, the financial controller refused to approve the case which the Administrative Board rejected.
The Court stresses the commitment to comply with the Financial Regulation, according to which all measures that may lead to budget expenditure" (Article 27 of the Financial Regulation for the Agency) must be the subject of an earlier request for a budgetary commitment; the separation of tasks 1.10.
The division of tasks has not been complied with in the administrative department of the Agency.
Due to the lack of staff in the accounting field at the same time, the same person was an accounting officer, administrator and administrator of financial resources/instructor of certain budgetary items.
Accounting systems 1.11.
For the purposes of budgetary and general accounting, two independent systems are used which are not interlinked.
In addition, the budgetary accounting system does not provide for any restrictions if the available or committed appropriations are exceeded.
Financial Controller 1.12.
The Management Board has appointed a financial controller for the Commission.
The Court considers that it is appropriate, on the basis of the current functioning of the Agency, to grant it full financial control, which was adopted by the Court of Auditors on 28 October 1996 in Luxembourg. On behalf of the Court of Auditors, Mr Bernhard FRI EDMANN, President
13. 3.97 AND DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/45 Assets Assets Assets Assets 1. Assets 1. Fixed assets 2. Fixed assets 2. Revenue carried over 1. Non-automatic assets 2. Appropriations carried over 2. Automatic transfers of funds Total 812 193 1005 1 5 8 8 2 6 932 8 514 3 - 240 9 762 2 371 1844 4 215 989 5 997 6 986 0 778 1179 Total assets: presentation of the Court on the basis of information provided by the Agency.
Total liabilities 0 8 025 Short-term money 1. Salary deductions 0 9 762 Trust accounts 11979 V binding
1994 9 312 850 58 10 220 574 1 0 7 (ECU 1 000) 1995 6 219 5 740 362 12 321 2 896 202 1488 320 6 437 6 465 32 421 0 12 461 in 140. 193 1 791 1844 1 6 10 767 187 165 320 0 0 0 0 7 027 193 0 193
• The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
As early as 31 October 1994, the first budget of ECU 10.2 million was adopted.
Since the decision on the Agency's seat was delayed, a particularly rapid work had to be carried out at the beginning of the Agency's activities.
With great commitment, projects were identified and commitments fulfilled before the end of the year, but for nearby reasons the implementation of the commitments could not start before the end of 1994.
In 1995, the Agency had difficulties implementing not only the 1994 budget but also the new budget of ECU 10,5 million for 1995 before the Agency's permanent staff began their service.
Open posts at the Agency were announced in November 1994 and after a long competition with more than 7000 candidates, the first candidates selected started working in the summer of 1995.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work programme and almost two budgets for this task, but its number was very limited.
Nevertheless, the work has moved forward and important projects such as the Dobris report and the revision of the fifth Environment Action Plan were completed in 1995.
Five European thematic response centres were set up and the creation of EIONET started.
On 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, such as national experts and auxiliary staff), the number of permanent staff of the Agency increased by 1 and reached level 22 on 31 December 1995, with still 10.
The Agency's administrative system was gradually expanding as the same open recruitment procedure was applied.
However, in 1995, the Agency did not have sufficient human resources to deal with procedural and financial aspects of work.
As regards the financial side, in the first half of the year there was only one person who dealt with financial, budgetary and contractual issues of the work programme.
In June 1995, the head of the administrative department began work and at the beginning of 1996 other persons dealing with financial and contract issues joined them.
Although the Agency has carried out its task, some errors have been made in the area of finance and budget with regard to the procedures required.
Overshoot of appropriations Some budget lines have been exceeded.
On the one hand, because the Agency's budgetary control system did not function satisfactorily and on the other hand some payments were not entered in the accounts as the Agency's financial department was clearly occupied.
Therefore, the financial statements found a discrepancy between the accounts and the payments actually made, which were considered to be the recovery of certain budgetary items.
Since it is no longer possible to settle between the various headings in the budget after 1 January, these amounts must be entered in the 1996 accounts, i.e. the 1996 budget.
In 1996, the expenditure and appropriations available in Titles I and II (i.e. the 1995 problems) were subject to careful scrutiny in order to avoid excess expenditure.
Non-compliance with procedures (requesting a financial controller) A work programme was developed and started at the stage of deployment of the Agency before administrative procedures were clearly defined and an appropriate governance structure was made available to monitor compliance with procedures.
In some cases, this has led to the commissioning and execution of work, disregarding certain procedural rules.
In particular, work has been commissioned without the prior consent of the financial controller in Brussels, which is a prerequisite for such operational expenditure.
This error was purely procedural and was due to the need to carry out the work, but the necessary administrative structures were not yet set up to ensure compliance with the rules in force in Brussels.
A clear delegation of implementing powers has been carried out and staff shall be informed of the procedural rules.
As for all public institutions, the allocation of tasks, including the Environment Agency, should remain separate from other functions of a financial nature.
One of the basic principles is that obligations and payment orders should not be executed by the same person.
However, during the development period of the Agency in Copenhagen, the number of employees was low enough that it could not be respected.
This fact was rightly challenged by the Court of Auditors.
In the case of the Environment Agency, the financial controller of the Agency and the Commission shall be the same person established in Brussels.
This would make the Agency's work much more difficult.
The solution to this dilemma is the creation of a paying agency.
In fact, it acts as a small cash reserve, even though the amounts cleared are quite significant.
Instead of obtaining prior approval of the financial control, the Agency shall order payment and send a summary of the transactions carried out by the paying agency once a month in order to obtain approval for the financial control.
On the one hand, it facilitates the work of the paying agency, but on the other hand it is a two-part sword, because internal control of the agency and the financial department must be able to meet this additional responsibility.
Therefore, the Court of Auditors' reservations are understandable, but as long as the financial controller is established in Brussels, the Agency does not see the possibility of extending the powers of the paying agency. · The Agency has therefore taken note of the recommendation of the Court of Auditors that the Commission should report to the Agency.
The computer-based accounting system of the Court of Auditors stresses the need for the Agency to introduce a modern accounting system which would cover both general accounting and budgetary control.
Such a computer system is essential for the EU's financial system, which has been comprehensively built in order to avoid the involvement of significant financial and budgetary resources.
The Environment Agency wholeheartedly supports the Court of Auditors' conclusions.
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has tried repeatedly to find a solution to this problem.
It is the same for the other EU agencies.
In 1996, the agencies issued a joint invitation to tender but did not succeed, i.e. no satisfactory system was found.
The Agency is currently working on the possibility of using Sincom's new budgetary control system 2.
The planning foresees that it will be installed and launched in good time for the implementation of the 1997 budget.
However, there will still be soft budgetary control and other general control.
Also payments will not be integrated into the software, and the Agency will continue to seek an appropriate solution to these problems and will seek coordination with other agencies.
13. 3.97 DE Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/49 Report on the annual accounts of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA-Lisbon) together with the Centre's replies (97IC 81/07) (1 November 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1 This report was submitted to the Management Board of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in accordance with Article 11 (11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 of 8 February 1993 n. 1.2.
The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
Whereas, pursuant to Article 11 (8) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Director;
Whereas, pursuant to Article 11 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 3294/94 of 22 December 1994 (3), it is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice (4);
The Court of Auditors shall audit this invoice in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report from the Centre's first audit.
The Court carried out an audit in accordance with generally accepted control standards to the extent that they apply to the Community context.
He carried out an accounting check and applied other control procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are generally guaranteed.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Commission assistance 1.5.
In the 1995 financial year, the Centre issued a recovery order for only 57% (ECU 3 million) of the grant.
The Court considers that the Centre should also have issued a recovery order for ECU 2,3 million (in total ECU 5,3 million) shown in the balance sheet in order to meet the commitments carried over to the financial year 1996 ( ECU 2,8 million).
Aid to the Portuguese Government 1.6.
The amount of ECU 614 015 (including interest) made available to the Centre by the Portuguese Government to occupy its seat shall not be included as revenue in the budget but only in the balance sheet.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.7.
This may lead to overshooting.
Paying agency 1.8.
In 1995, the Centre carried out a significant proportion of the expenditure (45%) through paying agencies.
The systematic use of the paying agencies procedure is not in accordance with Article 43 of the Centre's Financial Regulation, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure.
In addition, the accounts of these expenses were delayed because these documents had to be sent to a financial controller in Brussels.
In 1995, significant appropriations were transferred to 1996, i.e. ECU 2.8 million, representing 52% of the Centre's budget.
Some appropriations carried over from 1994 to 1995 (a total of ECU 4,677 million) had to be cancelled ( ECU 0,368 million, i.e. 8% of the appropriations carried over).
Division of tasks 1.10.
Financial controller 1.11.
Given the current situation, the internal control system could be improved by allocating an on-the-spot financial controller.
13. 3.97 and DE in the Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/51 Assets 1994 Assets 1 Assets 1 Fixed assets 0 2. Materials and furniture 0 Operating values 1. Office materials 0 Total 0 Real values 1. Capital 1 Capital 1 Capital 1 Capital 2. Total 1. Appropriations carried over 1. Non-automatic assets 2. Appropriations carried over 2. Appropriations carried over in total 0 35 365-4 243 4 608 5 0 0 0 4 648 3050 1294 4 344 1672 1063 2 735-99 388 0 388 7 566 Debtors 0 Total 681 3 967.
First short-term deductions from remuneration V Total liabilities
2350 145 609 6 104 706 135 868 431 1 2 5 3 2 170 563 541 35 864 1440 Result to be transferred Source: Court's presentation based on information supplied by the Centre. 157 4 608 4 765 35 · 35
13. 3.97 j.p. Ρ Ε ~ j.p. Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/53 The following comments relate to the Court of Auditors' main comments on the implementation of the EMCDDA budget for the financial years 1994 and 1995 (paragraphs 1.5 to 11 of the Court of Auditors' opinion).
The EMCDDA agrees with the Court of Auditors that it would be more appropriate to issue a recovery order for all appropriations entered in the Commission's balance sheet in the form of grants, and for the financial year 1996 appropriate actions were taken. b) PortugalThe national government[point1.6 of the Court's observations] The EMCDDA acted in accordance with the Commission's recommendations (which is also the financial controller of the EMCDDA). within the meaning of Article 54 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and Article 82 of the implementing provisions concerning the same (in accordance with the spirit of Article 142 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities), the EMCDDA first used the pre-financing scheme for the expenditure referred to in Article 54 of that Regulation.
The EMCDDA realizes, however, that it can only be a temporary system (based on Excel files not only) and that it needs a more efficient accounting system.
In this context, decentralised agencies (including EMCDDA) published an invitation to tender in Turin at the end of December 1995, in the framework of the coordination of the European Training Foundation, in order to equip themselves with an integrated general accounting system and budgetary accounts.
For the following financial years, the EMCDDA shall draw up a programming and control plan for the implementation of the budget and a work programme aimed at improving the use of the appropriations allocated and, in particular, limiting the transfer of appropriations to exceptional cases. (f) Allocation of tasks (point 1.10 of the Court of Auditors' observations) C Due to the very limited number of staff in 1994 and 1995 the EMCDDA was unable to fully ensure compliance with the principle of allocation of tasks, as indicated by the Court of Auditors.
The requirements of Article 16 of the financial provisions of the OEDT concerning the tasks of the authorising officer concerning the allocation of the tasks of the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer were fully respected.
The EMCDDA is already trying to ensure the division of tasks in the performance of the various tasks in question.
In this context, the Commission shall, as far as possible, take into account the requirements notified by the Court of Auditors in determining their short-term staffing needs in order to ensure that the administrative tasks (management of points of payment, accounting, staff management or contracts) referred to by the Court of Auditors are carried out by different persons.
In June, the Board of Directors of the EMCDDA adopted a negative decision on the transfer of the tasks of the financial controller to the staff of the EMCDDA (in particular with regard to the adoption by the European Commission).
As the financial controller of the European Commission is also the financial controller of the EMCDDA, the Commission should examine the feasibility of a possible designation of the financial controller on the spot, taking into account the solution to this issue in other decentralised agencies.
Price of ECU in + C" Verlation (*) 700 Werlung Werke 700 Werlbb + C" Werlungsausweise aus Werke von Siehe von (*) Γ) 595 Werlb 30 wurde Supplement zum Official (Advertising and public procurement) Jahr 1997 Kapierbeitbeit CD Werlung 800 Werlung from 6.50 to 64 Stern 13 Words over 64 Words Price setting BEELGIQUE/ BELGIUM Moniteur beige/ Belgisch Staatsblad Rue de Louvain 40 Werke/ Leuvenseweg 40 Werke 40 Werch Β Werben Bruxelles/Bnjssel Tél.
(522.12) 552 22 11 Fax (32.12) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B. 1060 Bruxelles/ Brussel Tél.
538 51 69 Fax (32...2) 538 08 41 Ej. mail: jean. de. lannoy@infoboard. be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 B. 1040 Bruxelles/ Brussel Tél.
295 26 39 Fax 32...2 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/ S Herstedvang 10. Wolf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 GERMANY Bundestablier Verlag Grunde Straße 78 wie 80 Postfach 10 05 34 D Wieder 50667 Köln Tel.
(49 not later than 2221)20 29 278 GREEECE/Ε ΛΑΔΑ G.C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR w 105 64 Athens Tel.
331 41 80/1/2/3 Fax (30...1) 323 98 21 E. j. ebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνές Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR-105 64 Ατήνα Τηλ.
323 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37 E. 28001 Madrid Tel.
(341.21) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (341.41) 575 39 98 Ej. mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: viiww.tsai.es/mprensa Bologna Oficial del Estado Trafalgar, 27.229 IRELAND Government Supply Agency Publications Section 4.5 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel.
(3531.41) 661 31 11 Fax (353.01 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/ 1 Casella postale 552 1.50125 Firenze Tel.
(39 not applicable) 64 54 15 Fax (39 not applicable) 64 12 57 Ej. mail: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/biblioVvetrina/licosa/tt1.htm GRANDUCHÉ DE LUXEM BOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L. 2411 Luxembourg Tél.
(352) 40 10 20 Fax: (gross) 490 661 Ej. mail: mdl@pt.lu Subscription: Messages Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L. 2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags wie und Universitätsbuchhandlung G mbh Siebenbrunnengasse 21 Postfach 1 A. Wien Tel.
53 161 334/340 Fax (43...1) 53 161 339 E. j. e. mail: ausfuhr@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net: 81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional.jasa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ w 1050 Lisboa Codex Tel.
3513 03 99 Fax (351...1) 353 02 94. 384 01 32 Distribuidora de Livros Bertrand Ld.° Rua das Terras dos Vales, 4 Apartado 60037 P. 2701 Amadora Codex Tel.
495 90 50/ 495 87 87 Fax (351.21) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlnen Kirjakauppa / Akademiaska Bokhandeln Pohjoissplanadi 39 PL/PB 128 FIN.0011 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
121 41 Fax (358...) 121 44 35 E at: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractorvägen 11 PO Box 200 S. 22100Lund Tel.
(46 w46 w46) 18 00 00 Fax (46 w46 w46) 18 01 25 Ej. mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agence Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.
(44 w171) 873 9090 Fax (44 w 171) 873 8463 URL: www. tne tostationery. office. co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Böndal Skólavoördustig, 2 IS War 101 Reykjavik Tel. ((354) 5515 650 Fax 354 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/ S Ostenioveien 18 Boxes 6512 Etterstad N voj.
(47.22) 97 45 00 Fax 47.22 97 45 45 SCHWEIZ/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH.8035 Zurich Tel.
316 53 15 Fax: (41...1) 365 54 11 Ejmail: urs.leimbacher@ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKÂ REPUBLIC NIS CR. jna Konviktskâ 5 let113 57Praha1 Tel.
24 22 94 33 Fax (42...2) 24 22 94... 33 E... mail: nkposp@dec.nis.cz URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY.1509 Nicosia Tel.
44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (3572.2) 361 044 E wi-fi: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans.infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hàz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H. 1396 Budapest 62 Tel.: +357.2 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (357.22) 361 044 E wi-mail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hàz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H.1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(36 non) 11 16061/11 16216 Fax (36..1) 302 50 35 Ej. mail: euroinfo@mail. matav.hu URL: www. euroinfo.hu/ index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel.
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polska Krakowskie Przemiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL. 00.950 Warszawa Tel.
(48 no2) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dùnya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad.
No: 469 TR in 80050 Tünel in Istanbul Tel.
(90 v. 212) 251 91 96 (90 v. 312) 427 02 10 Fax (90 v. 212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress in Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel.
9419 71 54 CANADA Uniquement subscriptions/ Subscriptions only: Renouf Publishing Co. Ltd 1294 Algoma Road K1B 3W8 Ottawa, Ontario Tel.
(1.0613) 741 73 33 Fax (1.0613) 741 54 39 Ej. mail: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/. wouf EGYPT The Middle East Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.
313-3) 3234 69 21 Fax (81.3)ι 3234 69 15 Ej. mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi.japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146Sandton Tel.
(27 no 11) 883 37 37 Fax (27 w) 883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611 at a Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax: (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) Ej mail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MÉXICO Mundi w E, SA de CV RfoPânuco, 141 Delegation Cuauhtemoc ME, 06500 México DF Tel.
(522.15) 553 56 58/27 Fax (52.15) 514 67 99 E y: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
Phyung HwaBldg 411.2 Hap Jeong Dong, Mapo K Ku 121 2220 Seoul Tél.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please contact the sales office at your chosen location: E. Wolfgang E. Wolfgang (E. Wolfgang) 538 22 384 17 Fax (341.1) 538 23 384 17 URL: www.boe.es 95 (Libras) / 15 (Suscripciones) 49 (Libros) / 14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR.170000 Zagreb Tel.
43 03 92 Fax (381.1) 44 40 59 ROMANIA Euromedia Str.
210 44 01/ 614 06 64 Fax 40.1 210 44 01/ 312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technician Knlznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO. 81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(42 no 7) 53 18 364 Fax (42 no 7) 53 18 364 Ej, mail: europ@tbb1. sltk. stuba. sk SLOVENIA Economy Vestnlk Zarozniska punktowa d. d.
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 Ej. mail: belied ©gvestnik.si URL: www.gvesfnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
(972.23) 546 14 23 Fax (972.23) 546 14 42 E at: royal@netvision. net. il Sub. agent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 1131/2000 Moscow Tel. (2000/095) 135 52 27 Fax: (095) 135 52 27 Mundi Prensa Barcelona Conseil de Cent, 391 E. Wolfgang, Barcelona Tel.
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313[06] - EN Page 1 of 5 Avis juridique important 31997Y0313[06] Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies Official Journal C 081, 13/03/1997 P. 0043 - 0048 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/06) (For the period from 1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1.
This report is added to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accordance with the requirements of Article 13 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. His replies include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in accordance with the internal financial provisions set out in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
This report establishes the first audit of the Agency.
The Court audited its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
The Court carried out checks on the accounts and records and also applied such additional audit procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are presented in the second part of this report.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are related and the underlying operations were carried out, on the whole, in accordance with the rules concerning legality and regularity.
Main observations concerning the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 The Commission grants 1.5.
During the financial year 1995 the Agency used only part of the Commission provided for in the general budget (ECU 12 million, of which ECU 6.2 million was draw down).
It is the Court's opinion that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the financial year 1995 for the balance remaining due (ECU 5.8 million) in order to meet the commitments that were carried over to the financial year 1996 (totaling ECU 7 million).
Splending in excess of available commitments 1.6.
Several cases of expenditure in excess of available commitments, amounts to approximately ECU 0,4 million already, were found under Titles I (staff expenditure) and II (administrative expenditure) of the budget.
This http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y03133.06 - EN Page 2 of 5 amount, which could not be charged to the budget for 1995, was entered on the assets side of the balance sheet in a settlement account, and had to be charged to the budget for the financial year 1996 (contravention of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Imprest account 1.7.
Most all payments charged to the budget under Titles I and II were made via an impression account.
The implementation of this account was not in accordance with Article 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, since the administrator of the impress accounts was, at the time, both the Accounting and the Authorizing Officer for certain budget headings.
Further, the deadlines for the submission of supporting documents were not met and the availability of commitments committed was not verified before payments were made.
This situation seems to be the principal cause of the cases of spending in excess of available commitments pointed out above.
Appropriations carried forward 1.8.
At the end of the financial year 1995, as was already the case at the end of the financial year 1994, the percentage of commitments carried forward was very high in relation to the commitments available (ECU 7 million - 57.2 % of the total budget).
The majority of these carryovers concern title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6,4 million, representing 90,3 % of the adaptations under this title).
A large share (ECU 1,8 million) of the approaches carried over from 1994 to 1995, totaling ECU 8,5 million, had to be cancelled (21 % of the subsidies carried over).
A posteriori referral to the Financial Controller 1.9.
Several proposals for the commitment of funds totaling ECU 0,5 million were submitted, a posteriori, to the Financial Controller for his approval.
In these cases, the Financial Controller withheld his approval, but this feedback was overruled by the Management Board.
The Court wishes to emphasize the obligation to respect the Financial Regulation and to submit proposals for commitments in due form prior to 'any measure of a kind which might lead to expenditure from the budget. (Article 27 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Separation of duties 1.10.
The separation of duties within the administration of the Agency has not been observed.
Due to a shortage of staff in the financial accounting department, the same person was, at one and the same time, Account Officer, administrator of the impress accounts and Authorizing Officer for certain budget headings.
Accounting systems 1.11.
The budget accounting and general accounting are carried out on two independent and unconnected computer systems.
The budget accounting system is, moreover, not programmed to repay entries in the event of commitments available, or commitments committed, being exhausted.
The Financial Controller 1.12.
The Management Board addressed the Commission's Financial Controller as their own Financial Controller.
The Court considers it would be appropriate, in respect of the Agency's present mode of operation, to address a full-time Financial Controller for the Agency.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 28 October 1996. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y03133.06 - EN Page 3 of 5 For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIDMANN President > TABLE > > TABLE > > (1) OJ No L 120, 11. 5. 1990, p. 4.
(2) Contrary to the requirements of Article 13 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts for all revenue and expenditure of the Agency in respect of the financial year 1995 were not prepared until 20 June 1996, the date on which the accounts were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and sent to the Commission, to the Board of Management and to the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 28 June 1996.
The abridged version of these financial statements is presented in the tables included to this report.
THE AGENCY'S REPLIES The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was adopted already on 31 October 1994.
Since the decision on where to locate the Agency had been delayed a fast start was needed.
Through a significant effect, projects could be identified and the budget committed before the end of the year, but for obvious reasons the execution of the commitments could barely start before the end of 1994.
Thus, in 1995 the Agency faced the dating task of execution, not only the budget from 1994 but also a new budget for 1995 of ECU 10,5 million, and this before the regular staff of the Agency had taken up duty.
The Vacan posts in the Agency were published in November 1994 and the selected candidates started coming on board in summer 1995 after a long selection procedure involving more than 7000 applications.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work programme and virtually two budgets to execute, but very limited staff for the task.
Despite this, work went ahead and in 1995 the Agency finalized major projects, like the Dobris assessment, the review of the fifth environmental action plan.
Five European topic centre were established and the build-up of the EIONET advanced.
The build-up of the Agency progressive with regular staff increasing from 1 on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, for example national experts and auxiliary staff) to 22 on 31 December 1995, still supported by 10 temporary staff.
The Agency's administration has progressively developed since the same open procedure to recruitment was applied.
Nevertheless, it was clearly too understood in 1995 to become the procedural and financial aspects of the work.
On the finance side only one person was available to trade the financial, budget and contractual aspects of the work programme during the first embroidery of the year.
In June 1995 the Head of Administration took up duty, and only in the starting of 1996 did the rest of the finance and contract staff come on board.
The Agency rose to the challenge, but some mistakes of a procedural nature were made in the areas of finance and budget.
Obspending There was overspending on some budget lines.
The reason was, on the one http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y03133.06 - EN Page 4 of 5 hand, that the Agency's budget monitoring system did not function in a satisfactory way and on the other hand some executed payments were not incorporated due to the fact that the Agency was seriously understood in the finance department.
As a consequence, when the accounts were closed, the discounty between the accounts and the payments actually made, shown up as overspending on some budget lines.
Since no adjustment between budget lines can be made after 1 January, this has to be booked on the 1996 accounts, i. e. been financed from the 1996 budget.
In 1996, the expenditures and the availability of commitments in Titles I and II, which was where the problems occurred in 1995, were carefully monitored in order to avoid spending.
Procedures overlooked (Saisine a posteriori) During the build-up of the Agency, a work programme was established and started beng executed before administrative procedures had been well established and an administration in place to monitor that procedures were followed.
In some cases this led to work being ordered and transported out without all the procedures being observed.
In particular, work was contracted without the Financial Controller in Brussels having given his visa which is a prerequisite for this kind of operational expenditure.
It was not a question of finances being wasted or that the finances were not there.
The mistake was procedural and reflected that work had to be done and the procedures to ensure that this was done according to Community rules were not yet in place.
Procedures are now in place to avoid similar problems.
A clear delegation of authority powers have been established and staff informed of the rules.
Separation of functions In the financial framework of the Agency, as is the case in all public institutions, certain functions should be kept separate.
A basic principle is that the same person should not commit money and order payment.
However, during the period of establishment of the Agency in Copenhagen the number of staff in the Agency was so small that it was not possible to observe this principle.
This is properly criticized by the Court of Auditors.
However, once the staffing of the Agency started to increase this was corrected and these functions have been rigorously separated in the Agency since autumn 1995.
Extensive use of imprest accounts The normal procedure for committing and ordering payments in the EU-system is to have prior approval by the Financial Controller in practice all cases.
In the case of the Agency, the Agency Financial Controller is the same as the Commission's and located in Brussels.
To send all financial transactions to Brussels for improvement before they could actually be executed would be an optional tiresome procedure.
It would seriously obstruct the working of the Agency.
The way out of this dilemma is the impression account.
It works in principle as a petty-cash reserve although the amounts involved are important.
Instead of seeking prior approval from Financial Control, the Agency executes the payment and once a month the impress account is sent to the Financial Controller to have the ex post approval of the payments which have been made.
On the one hand this facilities the functioning of the Agency, but, on the other hand, it is a double-edged word since the Agency's internal controls and the financial department must have the capacity to trade this additional responsibility.
Thus, the criticism by the Court of Auditors is understandable, but as long as as http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y03133.06 - EN Page 5 of 5 the Financial Controller is located in Brussels there is, in the Agency's view no alternative to an extensive use of the impress account.
It is therefore with great interest that the Agency has noted the recommendation by the Court of Auditors that the Financial Controller of the Commission should place a Financial Controller in the Agency.
The Agency would welcome this step.
Computerized financial system The Court of Auditors understands the need for the Agency to find an up-to-date computerized financial system which can integrate the accounting side with the budget monitoring side.
In the complex financial system of the European Union such a computerized system is crucial to avoid having to tie down a lot of resources in financial and budgety work.
The Agency supports entirely the conclusion by the Court of Auditors.
Since the starting of 1995, the Agency has again and again tried to find a solution to this problem.
It is a problem which the European Environment Agency shares with the other EU Agencies.
In 1996, the Agencies launched a joint call for tips to find a solution but this call for tips has not been successful, i.e. no satisfaction system has been found.
This, the Agency is at present pursuant to the possibility of using the new budget monitoring system Sincom 2. The plan is to have it installed and operational in time to execute the 1997 budget on the basis of this system.
There will still be one software for the budget monitoring system and another for the general ledger.
Nor will the impact accounts be integrated in the software the Agency will continue to look for an efficient way of solving these problems and will endeavour to coordinate this work with the other Agencies.
Managed by the Publications Office http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
C 309/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Annual Report of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 2006 together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/05) CONTENTS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 25 COMPLIERS...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 25 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................
26 Agency replies..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/25 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 [1].
The Agency's task is to set up an environmental monitoring network that provides information to the Commission, the Member States and the general public on the state of the environment.
This information should in particular give the European Union and the Member States the opportunity to adopt environmental action and assess the effectiveness of these activities.
2. Table 1 summarises the tasks and responsibilities of the Agency.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain relevant information on the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2006.
The proposal shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 [2] and shall be based on an invoice from the agency to which the Court must push under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 [3] were drawn up by its Executive Director and forwarded to the Court, which explains how the annual accounts are lawful and whether they are lawful and orderly.
5. The Court has carried out its work in accordance with Directives F 2007-2013 on financial control and on the obligations and code of conduct of INTOSAI, as well as with international professional bases for IFAC experts, provided that they are applied in a Community context.
In order to ensure adequate assurance that the annual accounts are too reliable and are based on correct and correct.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
The following comments do not undermine the Court's view.
COMMENTS (7) ON 30 % of the budgetary commitments for the financial year concerned had to be made.
In the case of operational expenditure (Title III and assigned revenue), more than part of the appropriations has been carried over.
In the last two months of 2006, the Agency has entered into budgetary commitments of EUR 1.3 million of EUR 1.3 million, partly unjustified in 2007.
The sample (4) of these results showed that they were referring without exception to cases which took place in 2007.
Therefore, the principle of budgetary fairness was not strictly applied.
8. The subordinate authorising officer not only carried out ex ante controls but also managed the rights of access to the electronic invoicing system, which is a violation of the principle of separation of tasks.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 27 September 2007.
(OJ L 120, 11.5.1990).
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 29 May 2007 and received by the Court on 3 July 2007.
(4) Sample value: approximately EUR 500 000.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 on the governance structure 1.The Agency's 2006 Administrative Board on resources for re-use (2005 data) The main environmental protection products and services in 2006 Environmental policy objectives The objective of the final budget: the announcement of the Prelude Environmental analysis of Land Use Development in Europe. The Community's environmental policy aims to achieve a high level of protection taking into account the different conditions prevailing in the various regions of the Community.
It is based on the principles of prevention and prevention, on the principle of priority to environmental protection, and on the principle of "polluter pays" (...).
In preparing its environmental policy, the Community shall take into account available scientific and technical data (...).
Inclusion of the European Environment Information and Observation Network and the provision of objective, reliable and comparable information at European level within the European Community, the Community and the Member States... the necessary information on the development and implementation of appropriate and effective environmental measures; the composition of EUR 33.1 million (EUR 32.1 million), (Article 174 of the Treaty) Cooperation on data harmonisation.
Source: The Agency's data. and the Member States on which they collect, collect and evaluate environmental status and reporting data on the quality of the environment within the Community; on 31 December 2006 Human resources designated by the European Parliament concerning, inter alia, transport and environment, agriculture and the environment, energy and environment, bioenergy, air, greenhouse gas emissions, European resources, urban spread and management of natural resources. (a) take the necessary environmental measures, tasks Employment plans: 115 (115), (b) assess the results of these activities, approve the work programme and supervise its implementation.
In order to improve the comparability of environmental data at European level and, where necessary, to improve harmonisation of measurement methods, the Executive Director shall, at the request of the Governing Board (assistancers, seconded national experts, temporary staff, temporary staff).
Seminars organised under the Council Presidency are not required to review European environmental information in international programmes; 3rd Consultative Forum Its representative of the Member States; it covers every five years... Publication of a report on state, development and environmental perspectives; 4th Scientific Forum consists of specially interested parties in the field of environmental protection: 42 (42) (42), does not concern the development of environmental forecasting procedures, as well as methods for assessing environmental costs and promoting the exchange of information on technologies that can be used for environmental protection purposes; 5th External audit of the European Court of Auditors.
...to develop methods for assessing environmental costs and for preventive, protective and remedial measures in the field of environmental protection.
Table 1 European Environment Agency (Copenhagen) for one representative of Member States, update of the European Pollution Emissions Register (EPER).
Two representatives of the Commission, a Community grant: 75% ((84%).
Commission set up.
Income from the general budget (income from the general budget) 5.5.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.5.2.5.2.5.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.2.5.5.2.5.2.2.5.2.2.5.2.2.5.2.5.2.5.2.5.2.5.2.5.2.5.2.5.2.5.2.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
(2) Recovery of real estate taxes between 2000 and 2004 (EUR 905 000).
C 309/28 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANSWERS AGENTURY In 2007 a higher percentage of revenue is essentially linked to extraordinary events in 2006, which led us to postpone interim payments in thematic centres until satisfactory delivery of services.
It was ensured that prior to 1 January each year licensing contracts were concluded in order to maintain the Continuity. With the time needed to determine and negotiate costs and time for complex new works.
The Agency will continue to seek to reduce revenue participation in this area.
The risks associated with the situation described were assessed by the management and risk reduction controls were introduced.
Other risks shall be considered acceptable.
This will be re-evaluated in the mid-2007 review of security-sensitive tasks.
C 309/40 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Annual Report of the European Agency for Reconstruction for the financial year 2006 together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/08) CONTENTS OF THE INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 41 COMPLIERS...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 41 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................
42 The Agency's replies.............................................................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/41 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96 (9), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 756/2006 of 28 November 2006 [2].
The Agency set up in 2000 was primarily responsible for managing the European Union's assistance programmes in Kosovo.
Its mission has been extended to Serbia and Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Agency shall implement programmes to support institutional development and governance in order to support the development of the market economy and basic infrastructure for civil society.
In principle, the mandate of the Agency expires on 31 December 2008.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain relevant information on the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2006.
This explanation shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 [3].
It shall be based on the Agency's account, which the Court must review under Article 2 (2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 [4] were drawn up by its Director under Article 8 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 [5] and forwarded to the Court, which provides information on the reliability of the annual accounts and on the legality and regularity of the basic accounts.
The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 shall be reliable in all material respects.
The following observations do not undermine the Court's assessment.
COMMENTS 7. The budgetary execution rate was satisfactory.
However, the Agency will pay attention to the level of measures that will continue to be binding, which will require specific monitoring of the Agency's programmes as its mandate expires at the end of 2008.
8.With regard to the invoicing system and the internal control system, the Court noted an improvement compared to previous years, in particular as regards the monitoring of measures managed by external entities and the application of procurement procedures.
Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER Principal (1) OJ L 204, 14.8.1996, p. 1.
OJ L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18.
OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1.
(4) The accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 6 July 2007.
OJ L 306, 7.12.2000, p. 7.
C 309/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Areas of Community competence resulting from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Structure of management of appropriations transferred to the Agency (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 The Community shall carry out economic, financial and technical cooperation activities with third countries.
These actions shall give an opinion to the Member States and shall be consistent with Community development policies.
Objectives Scope of tasks Administrative Board Final budget After operational headquarters (most important events): (Article 181a) Operational headquarters in Belgrade, Pristina, Podgorit and Skopje with high administrative autonomy.
The Agency manages the main Community aid programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (YYYY). These are countries, territorial units managed by the United Nations, regional and local organisations, public and semi-public organisations, social partners, business organisations, cooperatives, mutual companies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organisations.
108 (114) The posts provided for in the employment plan, (iii) supporting the development of the market economy and further investing in basic infrastructure and environmental measures; other positions: (iv) supporting social development and strengthening civil society.
Contract staff responsible for granting discharge: 29 (28) posts, 26 (26) of which are placed.
External audit External staff: 164 (170) Posts, posts occupied: 157 (162).
Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessalonics) Court of Auditors. SERBIA: (a) draft legislation on public administration reform; (b) supply of materials to border guards; (c) completion of an advanced DNA laboratory; (d) renovation and equipment for courts; (e) renovation programme for health professionals; (f) recruitment of jobs through loans from the Revolving Credit Fund; (g) training for businesses§; (h) regional training for adults; (i) economic development programmes for the strongest urban authorities; (j) securing new borders in Hungary and Croatia; (k) renewal of local infrastructure; (l) reform of the statistical office; (m) support for direct investment management; (n) support for social groups with minorities and rollers;
Euro Euro 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/43 Community competence resulting from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Structure for the management of appropriations transferred to the Agency (2005 data) Products and services in 2006 Source: Agency data.
MONTENEGRO: (a) the construction of an international airport in Podgorita and the modernisation of an airport in Tivat; (b) the central IT database for the Ministry of Home Affairs; (c) the support of human resources management agencies; (d) the creation of a new transport infrastructure and new transport law; (e) the separation/restructuring of public electricity and energy undertakings, the energy efficiency strategy; (f) the setting up of an environmental agency; (g) business management advice; (h) the support of a training centre in the field of justice; (i) enforcement reform; (j) support the development of agricultural and rural development strategies.
C 309/44 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Origin of revenue Revenue Paid Revenue Allocation of Community expenditure 24 795 20 200 Title I Staff 18540 1
The revenue and payments collected shall be determined in accordance with the spot accounting method. (EUR 1 000)
C 309/46 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency shall apply a very accelerated procedure for the implementation of aid schemes.
The last aid allocation to the Agency amounted to EUR 250 million in 2006, which will be allocated over three years, i.e. by 2009.
During the first six months of 2007, the Agency provided assistance of EUR 185 million, representing 74% of the annual budget.
The final balance to be allocated at the end of the mandate is therefore expected to be small.
C 311/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Annual Report of the European Agency for Reconstruction for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/07) INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 43 COMPLIANT SALES.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 43 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................
45 Agency's replies...........................................................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/43 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency") was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96[41], as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1756/2006 of 28 November 2006 [2].
Its mandate has been extended to Serbia and Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Agency shall implement programmes to support institutional development and governance in order to promote the development of the market economy and basic infrastructure and to support civil society.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's tasks and responsibilities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain relevant information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007.
This explanation shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 [3].
It shall be based on the adoption of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must execute in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 [4] were drawn up by its Director and forwarded to the Court, which presented a report on the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the basic accounts.
5. The Court has carried out its work in accordance with international standards for the highest audit of accounts (ISSAI) and international professional bases (IFAC)[26], provided that they are applied in a Community context.
In order to ensure adequate assurance that the annual accounts are too reliable and are based on correct and correct.
OJ L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18.
OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1.
(4) The accounts were drawn up on 10 July 2008 and received by the Court on 16 July 2008.
(6) ISSAI is the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC is the International Federation of Accountants (International Federation of Economic Entrepreneurs).
6. The Court shall provide the appropriate basis for the following information on compliance: the chiefity of the accounts of the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be justified in all material respects.
The following comments do not undermine the Court's view.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget was EUR 250,2 million compared to EUR 268,8 million in the previous year.
Although the end-of-year budget implementation rate was satisfactory, the Agency used at that time the amount of unused appropriations (EUR 453 million) for operational activities, i.e. EUR 163 million which have not yet been allocated, and EUR 290 million for payments under existing commitments.
Since the Agency's tasks have been carried out for several years, these costs will have to be partially incurred after 2008 (the last year of operation of the Agency).
8. the Agency's mandate expires on 31 December 2008.
On 24 April 2008, the European Commission adopted a decision on the management of the programmes which had so far been managed by the Agency and on 11 June 2008 received a memo containing instructions and guidelines for the transmission of programming and contractual documents.
This note shall not cover any positions of the Agency in the field of conformity control.
In order to establish the rules for the application of the Agency's programmes and positions, the Agency and the Commission must sign an agreement approved by the Agency's Management Board.
This shall facilitate the entry of items and ensure that they are correctly entered in the Agency's annual accounts.
C 311/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 9. The cumulative deposit of EUR 180 million, as set out in the audit report as at 31 December 2007, reflected in part the funds received by the Commission from the Agency for advance payments under grant agreements and grant agreements.
Once the mandate of the Agency has expired, it is also necessary for administrative tasks to be governed by the European Commission.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 18 September 2008.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/45 Community competence resulting from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure 1. Administrative appropriations transferred to the Agency in 2007 (2006 data) Cases and services in 2007. The Community shall support activities in the field of economic, financial and technical cooperation with third countries.
These actions shall give an opinion to the action of the Member States and shall be consistent with the Community's development policies.
Objectives Scope Final budget: After operational headquarters (most important events): Kosovo: (Article 181a) Administration, strengthening the institutions and the rule of law; not all actions necessary for the implementation of Community assistance are designated on a proposal from the Commission.
These include: operational civil protection activities; (b) provision of equipment and support to police and border guards; support for actions in the field of the protection of minors; development and strengthening of civil society. e: 163 (171), (c) inclusion of per capita priorities in national health institutions; the Agency manages major assistance programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro) and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Countries, territorial units managed by the United Nations, local, regional and local communities, public and semi-public organisations, social partners, charities, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and NGOs.
One representative of each Member State, two representatives of the Commission and one observer of the European Investment Bank.
250,2 million euro (EUR 268,8 million) a) socio-conomic assistance for the development of minorities; Council of the Court of Auditors. 27 (26) busy: 4. Total human resources discharge: 264 (273) a) drafting of legislation on public administration reform; Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessalonics) Other posts: f) privatisation of public utility enterprises; employees: 165 (164) Posts including: 154 (157) g) Sustainable forest management and forest protection; administrative action: 101 (102). d) supporting privatisation and training for enterprises§; b) supporting civil society and the media; SERBIA:
MONTENEGRO: (a) supporting the integration of refugees and internally displaced persons and supporting civil society organisations; (b) strengthening environmental management; (c) improving road infrastructure in the areas of Kjongjang; (d) supporting public administration reform: police and prison; (e) separation/reorganization of public electricity companies; energy efficiency strategy; (f) advice on business management; (g) animal identification and registration system and management of fishery resources.
(a) support in the framework of the partnership in the field of monetary policy, corruption and organised crime, statistics, air quality, financial control; (b) completion of the establishment of a national animal identification system; (c) increase the efficiency of SMEs and the creation of a human resources development fund; (d) support for civil society organisations and municipalities; (e) support for measures to eliminate industrial problems zones, waste water treatment at the level of municipalities, waste management and health risks; (f) support for the planning of the aid instrument for preparing for work; (g) support the implementation of professional standards in the health administration.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/47 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Revenue allocated to Commission subsidy 24 559 p.m.
23 960 4 743 Title I Staff 187021786917540 330 832 187 0 133 54 18889 17889 17869 17673 330 886 36 6364 4768 4770 469 1125 Other revenue Title II Administration 5857 4768 4299 4299 469 1089 507 0 471 Assigned revenue 232 642dge 461 Title III Operating expenditure 13727 3031 120 13607 0 678806 276086 239217 3417 692533 232423 236292 452824 3417 Total 250 201 251 216 21959 14406 1921 679500 276086 236776 439217 3507 717786 301754 258735 453623 5428 Revenue from the previous financial year under the final budget in the same financial year.
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its own accounts.
The revenue and payments collected shall be determined in accordance with the accounting method based on the cashier.
C 318/48 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessalonics) for economic results for the financial years 2007 and 2006 5.12.2008 Operational expenditure Administrative expenditure Other administrative expenditure Operational expenditure Total (a) 2007 255 537 1 243 256 780 16 724 412 5 454 225 568 158 8 622 36 in 2011 (c = b) Expenditure related to financial transactions (d) in 2007 in 2004 in 2006 in 2006 in 2006 in 2006 in 2005 in 2005 in 2005 in 2005 in 2005 in 2005 in 2005 in 2005
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method.
Table 4 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessalonics) on fixed assets Fixed assets Long-term long-term claims Short-term claims Cash and cash Relative short-term liabilities Current liabilities Current liabilities Risk and liabilities Liabilities Reserve Cumulated clearing liabilities will increase/losses Total annual economic result Net liabilities Net capital 2007 41 529 3 618 179 810 30 329 41 499. 826 1 189 79 80 175 529 166 943 8 586 175 529 (1 000 EUR) 2006 70 743 10 175 885 24 562 51 991 254 1 986 85 496 87 482 166 943 300 3 643 166 943 Source: Agency data presented in the annual report.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/49 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCIES 7. At the end of 2007, due to the multi-annual nature of CARDS programmes, the Agency could continue to implement the annual programmes for the years 2004, 2005 and 2006 through commitments and payments.
In the case of CARDS, the deadline for commitment is 2009 and the deadline for payment is 2010.
The cost of these three programmes, which have not yet been closed, was EUR 1.8 billion.
The fact that EUR 163 million (90%) remains to be repaid and that the total amount of EUR 453 million (25%), should be paid three years before the CARDS deadline, indicates a very high determination rate.
The Court commended the Agency's results in Special Report No 5/2007 (OJ C 285, 27.11.2007, p. 1).
8. The Agency shall do everything in its power to successfully achieve this objective.
It intends to enter into agreements with the various EU institutions on the exchange of information between the parties.
In addition, the Agency shall contact the Commission in order to formally regulate the issue of income collection and shall submit it to the Management Board for approval.
C 311/20 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Annual Report of the European Aviation Safety Agency for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/04) INTRODUCTION...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 21 COMPLIERS...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 21 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................
23 The Agency's replies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/21 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2002 [1]
The main task of the Agency is to maintain a high level of civil aviation safety, ensure the proper development of civil aviation safety, develop certification specifications and issue certificates for aviation products.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's tasks and responsibilities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain relevant information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007.
3. This information on cohesion shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 [2] and shall aim at establishing the Agency's accounts which the Court must implement in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 [3] were drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 49 of Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and forwarded to the Court, which provided an explanation of the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assumptions.
5. The Court has carried out its work in accordance with international standards for the highest audit of accounts (ISSAI) and international professional bases (IFAC)[14], provided that they are applied in the Community context.
OJ L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 30 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
(4) ISSAI is the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC is the International Federation of Accountants (International Federation of Economic Entrepreneurs).
6. The Court shall provide the appropriate basis for the following information on compliance: the chiefity of the accounts of the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be justified in all material respects.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget was EUR 72.0 million compared to EUR 66.0 million in the previous year.
The budget of the Agency shall be financed by remuneration and fees for the issuing or amending of certificates and certificates by the Agency and by the Commission's contribution.
8. The 2007 establishment plan provided for 467 posts for temporary staff, an increase of 139 posts against the 2006 establishment plan.
Since staff expenditure did not cover actual staff expenditure, the Agency decided to reduce the number of posts and agreed with the Commission to limit the number of posts to a maximum of 342, of which 333 took place at the end of the year.
However, the establishment plan has not been adapted accordingly.
The Agency should ensure that expenditure is presented for adoption by the budgetary authority.
9. In accordance with the new Staff Regulations [5], as of 1 June 2007, the Agency used EUR 14.9 million as assigned revenue to cover the potential costs of issuing certificates.
However, this amount was too high as it also covers areas covered by the old Code.
(5) Commission Regulation (EC) No 593/2007 of 31 May 2007
C 311/22 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 10. In the case of the procurement procedure, the situation of the tenderers was unclear due to the lack of clear and complete information on the award criteria and their importance on the one hand and due to the method of financial valuation on the other hand.
In three other points (1), after the call for expressions of interest, the procedure was closed, although the total value of the services to be provided was higher than the threshold from which the open procedure should be initiated.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 24 and 25 September 2008.
Court of Auditors V.A. Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President (1) Uncertain total value: EUR 2,5 million for four years.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311 shall not apply to the Community areas of competence resulting from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the Parliament and of the Council) Structure of management of appropriations transferred to the Agency in 2007 (data for 2006) Products and services Common transport policy Objectives to be implemented by the Agency 1. The Administrative Board shall consist of one representative from each Member State and a representative of the Commission, establish an advisory body of interested parties.
Final budget: Opinions: The Council, acting by qualified majority, may decide to what extent and according to which procedures appropriate rules should be adopted for maritime and air transport. Maintaining a uniform, high level of civil aviation safety in Europe and maintaining and further developing civil aviation security.
(Article 80 of the Treaty) International cooperation: Source: Agency data.
In order to develop certification specifications, including airworthiness codes and acceptable conformity validation methods, as well as any guidelines for the application of Community policies; 2. The Executive Director shall direct the Agency and be appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Commission.
55,8 (33.2) million EUR (65%), Community subsidy: 26,5 (31.4) Mil-17.
The contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany (Ministry of Federal Transport) and the City of K Germany: EUR 0,3 (1.2 million).
Changes in working arrangements with the Interstate Civil Aviation Committee (USA) and JCAB (Japan); review of standardisation inspections in the Member States; external audit 467 (328) Temporary posts in the establishment plan, approval decisions on 31 December 2006: not necessary in companies.
European technical specifications: 198 Court of Auditors.
Additional type certificates: 879 total staff: 362 (309) of which 3 for operations: 277 (227), for administrative tasks: 57 (57), for other tasks: 28 (25).
C 311/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue Revenue entered in the final budget for the financial year Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure From previous years (in years) Own resources 42 800 26 530 40 967 26 530 Title I Staff 33 624 bound 33 086 32 282 538 verf.gbar 286 paid 243 Community benefits cancelled 43 Other revenue and revenue 1 879 2 593 Title II Operational expenditure 9 819 27 766 9 564 27 155 7 968 996 9 956 1 596 255 17 199 611 2 585 16 381 2 504 14 238 81 2 143 Assigned revenue from salaries and salaries collected p.m.
836 14 865 326 Assigned revenue resulting from collected salaries and salaries p.m.
14 865 326 0 326 14 865 0 500 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assigned revenue Other assigned revenue 836 Total 72 045 85 281 72 045 84 996 50 402 35 094 1 414 19 252 16 985 2 267 Revenue Expenditure in the final budget Note: Due to rounded amounts may vary.
Source: Agency data.
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its own accounts.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Aviation Safety Agency (K.L.) In the light of the economic results for the financial years 2007 and 2006 C 311/25 Operating costs Salaries and Community charges Other revenue Operating costs Administrative costs Other administrative expenditure Operating costs Total (a) 2007 44 167 24 166 1 608 559 70 31 070 1 392 10 008 22 360 64 830 5 670 605 17 588 6 258 (1 000 EUR) 2006 35 173 26 401 2 021 340 63 935 23 778 573 6 436 27 798 58 586 5 4 transitional 484 19 593 Total (b) outstanding operating costs (c = b) Operating costs (e) Financial costs (f) non-regulated (e)
Table 4 European Aviation Safety Agency (K.L.) As of 31 December 2007 and as of 31 December 2006 (EUR 1 000) 2006 1 719 0 13 881 24 056 39 924 639 30 663 31 302 8 622 3 029 593 8 622 Fixed assets Immunetic fixed assets Immune fixed assets Short-term pre-financing 0 Short-term claims Cash and cash Qualified short-term liabilities Current liabilities R.Key liabilities for risk and clearing liabilities Reserves Cumulated liabilities for fixed assets / losses Economic result of the total Year Total implementation Net capital 0 21 820 36 659 60 295 797 44 618 45 880 822 6 4 880 2007 274 1 542 Source: The Agency's data.
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method.
C 311/26 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 8. During the first two years of the implementation of the Code, there was insufficient revenue for the Agency to cover the total estimated cost.
The Agency has therefore decided to carefully reduce its positions.
This is reflected in the staff policy plan 2008-2010 agreed with the Commission.
9. Old and new provisions of the same nature were applied during the transitional period in 2007.
The calculation of assigned revenue for fees and fees shall be in accordance with Article 64 (5) of basic Regulation ((EC) No 216/2008), which provides that revenue and fees, including revenue obtained in 2007, constitute assigned revenue.
The basic Regulation does not provide that the provisions adopted under the previous Regulation should be excluded.
The exact calculation method was submitted to the Budget Committee of the Governing Board (28 May 2008).
10. The Agency is fully aware of the need for strict compliance with the Commission's public procurement rules.
The Commission will pay particular attention to informing potential tenderers of the award criteria and their assessment.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/55 Annual Report of the European Maritime Safety Agency for the financial year 2006 together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/10) CONTENTS OF THE INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 ENFORCEMENT OF CONDITIONS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................
The Agency's replies...........................................................................................................
Point 56 56 56 58 61
C 309/56 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 [1].
The Agency's task is to ensure a high level of maritime safety, increase pollution by ships, scientific and technical support from Member States and the Commission and to monitor the application of Community rules and assess their effectiveness.
2. Table 1 summarises the tasks and responsibilities of the Agency.
This information on disagreement shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2).
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 [3] were drawn up by the Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and forwarded to the Court, which provides information on the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assumptions.
5. The Court has carried out its work in accordance with Directives F 2007-2013 on financial control and on the obligations and code of conduct of INTOSAI, as well as with international professional bases for IFAC experts, provided that they are applied in a Community context.
OJ L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 27 June 2007.
6. The Court shall provide the appropriate basis for the following information on consistency: it is necessary to draw up the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006.
COMMENTS 7. More than 43% of payments had to be cancelled at the end of 2006.
Moreover, in the last quarter of this year, Vorggen emerged, which was not strictly in line with budgetary principles.
8. In drawing up the budget and the establishment plan, no action was taken to prepare the budget, which meant a large number of resources (4), inadequate planning of employment (5) and incorrect presentation of the budget (6).
9. Legal commitments were made before the relevant commitments were made (7).
Some companies provided for 100% pre-financing, which is not in line with the principle of cost-effectiveness of the budget (8).
(4) More than 35 appropriations in 2006
(5) Non-compliance with recruitment objectives has led to measures under which the budget of 1100 (basic) has been reduced by EUR 1.2 million.
(6) The budget provides for payments to be paid in subsequent financial years on the basis of budgetary commitments (Article 31 (2) (c) of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
(7) Four ceilings with a total value of around 345 000 euro.
(8) Article 67 of the Financial Regulation (Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23 December 2002).
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309 out of 10 10. The inventory management system has weak points to detect the existence of all opponents.
On; on the basis of records it is not possible, taxi-IT equipment is not included in the system.
C 309/07 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Source: Data from the Agency. Scopes of Community competence resulting from the Treaty (Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002, as amended by Regulations (EC) No 1644/2003 of 22 July 2003 and (EC) No 724/2004 of 31 March 2004) Management structure 1.The Administrative Board of the Agency f.d. 2006 may decide to what extent and according to which procedures the relevant provisions of f.d. transport policy should be adopted.The purpose of the common transport policy is to carry out the tasks of the final budget for 2006: the number of specifications and instructions: 49 (including reports and/or studies).
in the case of a high, uniform and effective level of safety at sea and in the case of pollution by ships; supporting the Commission in the further development of Community legislation and its application; composition (Article 80 of the Treaty). Scientific and technical support for Member States and the Commission; tasks 132 (95) provided for in the establishment plan, seminars, training and workshops: 59 (102 days and 1440 participants).
to develop technical solutions and support the application of Community rules; 111 (80) Inclusion of operational methods to combat pollution of European organisms.
Total number of employees: 131 (100), monitoring the functioning of the Community port State control system, which may include visits to Member States; one representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four representatives of the economic sectors concerned who do not have the right to vote.
Inspections/practicies: 47 (of 600 days for business trip); Commission technical assistance for port State control; including: supporting cooperation between coastal States of the maritime areas concerned; 2) Executive Director Managed by the Governing Board to prepare cooperation between Member States and the Commission to develop a common methodology for the examination of the sea; 3) External audit: w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w, w
Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon)
4. Discharge 41 (27), no later than 7 (8).
Human resources at 31 December 2006: high seas operations: 7. 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/59 Sources of revenue Allocation of Community revenue 44 738 32 030 Titlel I Staff (NGM) 13 459 2 972 12 705 2 550 10 387 1 944 664 606 2 408 422 161 62 99 333 2 483 85 Miscellaneous revenue 0 362 in E 28 308 28 308 44 738 44 738 19 033 0,00 0 11 638 0 23 969 0 9 275 16 669 12 105 19 499 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 44 738 32 392 VE Total 34 287 0 1 270 1 494 310 184 Revenue from the final budget of F for the financial year 2005 under the general budget of the general budget within the general budget of the general budget
GM: Miscellaneous measures (necessary commitments do not have to comply with payments).
PA: payments under separate measures.
Title II Operational expenditure (NDA) Title III Operational expenditure (GM) Table 2 The European Maritime Safety Agency is not linked to the budget for the financial year 2006 no 0 Source: The Agency's data are not shown in this table in the Agency's accounts.
(c) = (a) (b) Ertr.e) Expenditure related to financial transactions (f) bersh.se/ (f) 2 925 11 217 439 0 3 435 Total (b) 435 (f) 435 (f) (f) (f) (f) (f) (f) (f) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon). As of 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005. Fixed assets 55 Real estate assets 523 Changes in circulation Pre-financing short-term claims Cash and cash Qualified Current liabilities Net liabilities Risks and liabilities Net liabilities Cumulated net liabilities Reinforced net liabilities Life insurance liabilities / Losses of economic result in the financial year Total assets Total liabilities 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 191 12 111 12 301 7 185 2 157 5 028 17 330 2006 (1 000 EUR) 2005 69 455 5 351 8 866 14 847 107 7 555 7 661 2 750 4 435 7 185 14 847 Total net liabilities and net liabilities This table summarises the data presented by the Agency in its annual financial statements.
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/61 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency's budget appropriations have been used in over 50% for environmental pollution activities.
In this area, the Agency has tendered for the award of four undertakings, in particular expenditure on ship pollution.
At the end of this process, two companies decided at the last minute to withdraw their offers, which allowed only two companies to be granted.
This was intended to cancel payments at a high level at the end of the year.
8. The move of the Agency from Br not to Lisbon in 2006 had an impact on the budget, which was difficult to predict, including the resignation of almost 20% of employees.
9. Procedures to avoid outstanding liabilities are unnecessary.
The pre-financing conditions will be reviewed in accordance with the Court's observations.
10. The discharge of the old stock management system by ABAC Assets in June 2007 aims to address the problems faced by the Court.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311 on the annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/09) CONTENTS OF THE INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Point 58 58 58 60 63
Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 [1] establishes a European Maritime Safety Agency ("the Agency') under Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
The Agency's task is to ensure a high level of maritime safety, to increase pollution by ships, to provide technical support to the Member States and the Commission, to monitor the application of Community rules and to assess their effectiveness.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain relevant information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 [3] were drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and forwarded to the Court, which explains how the annual accounts are lawful and whether they are in accordance with law and order.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 11 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget was EUR 48.2 million compared to EUR 4.7 million in the previous year.
The Agency's budget shall be financed mainly by the European Commission.
The procedures for drawing up the budget were not strict enough.
This has led to a large number of revenue (5), a false presentation of the budget (6) and an incorrect change in the source of funding for pollution control (7).
8. Legal commitments were made before the relevant commitments were made (8).
(5) More than 32 measures in 2007
6. In the case of allocated appropriations, the budget must include an evaluation of expenditure on budgetary commitments over the coming financial years (Article 31 (2) (c) of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
(7) Between mid-June and December, EUR 25 million of environmental pollution measures were approved by households as appropriate resources (C1) for assigned revenue (R0).
(8) Three ceilings with a total value of EUR 208 000.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/59 9. As regards recruitment procedures, the selection criteria and the necessary minimum point of the state-of-the-art selection procedure have not been established before the start of the evaluation process.
Members of the Staff Committee were not invited to participate in recruitment procedures at any time.
Such an approach did not ensure transparent and non-discriminatory procedures.
The excellence of the Community (Articles 4 (1) and 4 (1) (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as amended by Regulations (EC) No 1644/2003 and (EC) No 724/2004) Management structure 1.The Agency's Administrative Board of 2007 on the use of resources (2006 data) Products and services in 2007. The common transport policy Objectives of the Final Budget: (complete list); n. more information can be found in the compliance assessment report), ăThe Council may, acting by qualified majority, decide to what extent and in accordance with which procedures appropriate rules should be adopted for shipping and aviation and that appropriate rules should be adopted for shipping and aviation.
The development and functioning of the necessary information systems; not only to assist Member States, but also to monitor the functioning of the Community port State control system, which may include visits to Member States; one representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four representatives of the economic sectors concerned, who do not have the right to vote.
This is not necessary to achieve the objectives set out in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013.
on the assistance of the Commission and the Member States in identifying and prosecuting vessels which have carried out illegal discharges; 3. the external audit of the Court of Auditors.
on the assessment and implementation by the Commission of the tasks related to the Directive on the removal of ships; on the provision of information on the implementation of the Directive on port reception facilities in Europe. Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Parliament on a recommendation from the Council.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 318/61 Origin of revenue collected Allocation of expenditure allocated to the Community budget 48 249 37 387 Title I Staff (NGM) 15 320 3 180 11 999 3 149 11 805 1 881 194 1 267 3 321 31 664 245 419 606 523 83 Other revenue 157 at the rate of 29749 29 749 48 249 249 28132 0 43 280 0 19 295 0 32 982 141 1617 10 454 4 969 13 806 0 0 Total 48 249 37 544 VE Total 1 603 1 270 768 502 Expenditure related to the final budget for the financial year.
PA: payments under separate measures.
The appropriations for this purpose under Title III relate only to re-used income (€101 000) and assigned revenue (€40 403).
The revenue and payments collected will be cancelled in accordance with the cash accounting method.
C 318/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 The European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) has no impact on the economic performance for the financial years 2007 and 2006 5.12.2008 Operating costs within the Community Other operating expenditure Administrative costs Other administrative expenditure Operating costs Total 2007 33 801 1 111 34 912 10 791 3 252 14 842 29 242 5 669 (EUR 1 000) 2006 24 716 678 25 394 9 616 236 3 548 14 151 27 551? 2 157 Total (b) Economic result per year (c = b) Source: Agency data.
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its own accounts.
Table 4 The European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) is not available on 31 December 2007 and on 31 December 2006 (EUR 1 000) 2006 55 523 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 191 12 111 12 301 5 028 7 185 2 157 5 028 Fixed investments Fixed assets Changes and other short-term advances Short-term claims Cash and cash Current liabilities Current liabilities Current liabilities R risk and liabilities related to settlements Reserves Cumulated capital liabilities / Loss Total annual economic result Net liabilities Implemented at the end of 2007 257 555 557 10 003 15 446 26 na. w., w. 15 na. 537 10 697 5 028 5 669 10 697 Source: Agency information.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/63 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency confirms the observations of the Court of Auditors.
The Agency shall continue its activities to improve planning and monitoring.
Particular attention shall be paid to the forecasts and the schedule of payments.
The measures needed in 2007 are in line with the 10% threshold laid down in the Financial Regulation.
On 20 March 2007, on a proposal from the Commission, the Administrative Board decided to use the funds intended to cover pollution as assigned revenue, but on 21 November 2007 it decided not to treat these measures more linearly.
8. Measures to avoid late forms of education are understood.
Castle factors are training and communication.
9. In response to the Court of Auditors' observations, steps have been taken to ensure that the selection criteria and the minimum number of points required are set at an earlier stage in the selection procedure.
In the light of the forthcoming adoption of new implementing rules for the recruitment of temporary staff, the Agency will take into account further Court of Auditors' observations on recruitment procedures.
Orricial Journal c 393/03 97/C 393/04 97/C 393/05 97/C 393/06 97/C 393/06 97/C 393/07 97/C 393/07/C 393/08 # Informations and Notices Contents Page I Information Court of Auditors Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocation Training (Cedefop Wocation Training), accompanied by the replies of the Centre 1 Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), accompanied by the replies of the Centre 1 Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products's (Dublin Foundation), aq'EQ'EQ'A)
23 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies 29 Report on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies 35 Report on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies 41 EN 2 (Continued overleaf) Report on the Financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Finacial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies 47
Notice No 97/C 393/09 97/C 393/10 Contents (continued) Report on the financial statements of the Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO-Angers) (Fincial years 1995 and 1996), together with the office's replies 52 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies........
58 Note to readers (see page 3 of the cover) EN
On 22 December 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020.
C 393/2 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONALTRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is added to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 12 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (a) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (2).
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In accordance with Article 18 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
This liability included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Articles 65, 67 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3).
The Court of Auditors is required within the meaning of Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community to examine these financial statements.
3. The Court undertook its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context, and, accordingly, carried out such tests of the accounting records and such other audit procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996'are related and the underlying transactions are, as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was l established by the Council Regulation EEC No 337/75 {) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of promoting vocational training at Community level.
Cedefop communicated operations in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Thessaloniki in 1995.
6. The same Regulation defines its role as that of assisting 'the Commission in promoting, at Community level, the promotion and development of vocational and in-service training', of contributing 'to the implementation of a common vocational training policy' and especially encouraging 'the exchange of information and the comparison of expertise'.
Its main tasks in the field of vocational training are 'to compile documentation, to compare to the development and coordination of research, to distribute useful documentation and information, to enable and support initiatives appear to facilitate a coordinated approach (specifically in respect of the approximation of standards and the mutual recognition of certificates) and to provide a Forum for all those concerned'.
Scope of the audit 7. The Court carried out a financial audit of the 1996 accounts and has reviewed the Centre's decisions concerning its temporal and permanent premises and staff situation.
Financial data 8. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Centre.
Available approaches for the financial year 1996 estimated to ECU 14,8 million.
Commitments entered into gave rise to ECU 11,4 million in payments and ECU 2,1 million in carry-over to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 1,3 million having been cancelled.
Appropriations carried over from the previous financial year gave rise to ECU 4.2 million in payments and ECU 0.6 million in cancellations.
Table 3 of this report gives an analysis of the implementation of the approaches for 1996 as well as of those carried over from 1995.
Observations concerning budget implementation Separation of duties 9. The Centre has put in place adequate procedures for the separation of duties of authority officer, accounting officer and impres holder (5).
Imprest account 10. A high proportion (in 1996, including salaries) of payments continue to be made prior to approval by the Financial" Controller.
Last year (5) the Court recommended that the use of the.imprest account be limited to ongoing or small expenses, where' the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
A Management Board decision defining which kind of expenses may be paid thrnnph the innrest account has been established and came into force on 1 January 1997.
Transfers approaches 11. The value of transfers of commitments between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 891 600 (6% of the initial budget), down from ECU 922 000 in 1995.
29. 12.97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/3 12. Following consultations with and the approval of the different services in the Commission (DG IX, DG XIX and DG XX), the Centre transferred ECU 30 000 from budget line 117 6 'Other services and work sent out for translation and typing' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 0 "Auxiliaries," and ECU 40 000 from budget line 1 0 0 "Basic premises' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 1 2 "Local agents'.
These new budget lines were created by the Centre.
The Court acknowledged the reasons for making these transfers, but notes that they are contrary to paragraph 4 (a) of Article 21 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 which states: 'appropriations may be transferred only to budget headings for which the statement of expenditure has authorized approvals or carried a token entry'.
The same budget lines are also included in the 1997 budget with approval of the budget Authority.
Carry-over and cancellations of approvals 13. The volume of acceptances carried over has decreased in 1996.
Nearly 77 % of final acceptances for 1996 were paid out in 1996 as compared with 61 % in 1995.
The percentage of commitments made and carried over to 1997'was 14% (28% in 1995).
The percentage of cancellations was 9 % compared with 10 % in 1995.
Table 4 shows the carry-overs from the 1996 initial budget by title and their subject use.
Observations concerning the revenue and expenditure account and the balance sheet Revenue 14. The EU subsidies for the Centre for 1996 was ECU 14 625 000.
The Centre actually requested and received ECU 14 410 000.
15. In 1996, for the first time Norway and Iceland paid the Centre ECU 9 6 1 3 5 as a contribution for their participation in the work programme.
Expenditure 16. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 measures that contracts may be made by direct agreement where the contract involves an amount not exceeding the limit of ECU 12 000.
In the case of at least 17 studies contracts and five fixed asset purchases, contracts over that limit were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of the Regulation, however all payments were approved by the Financial Controller.
17. The result of a study of deliveries in the submission of work by contractors for 1996 shown that 55 % of the contractors did. not respect the contractual deadline.
None of the minutes of management meetings contained any evidence of a review of the performance of contractors in meeting contractual deadlines.
Balance sheet 18. The Centre made an up-to-date inventory list as foreseen in Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (s).
Fixed assets of ECU 1 443 431 recorded in the 1996 balance sheet represents the historical cost of materials and furniture.
19· At the year end, cash balances herd by. the Centre were ECU 4.1 million, down from ECU 5.9 million in 1995.
The Centre is again taking responsibility for managing large cash balances.
The Court recommends the Centre make its quarterly drawing from the Commission on the basis of its actual cash needs.
20. The balance sheet includes an amount of ECU 483 308 relative to 'VAT to recover', of which ECU 251 434 relationships to the year 1995 but not yet recovered due to the move to Thessaloniki.
The Court asks the Centre to do the necessary to recover this amount as soon as possible.
With regard to the 'VAT to recover for 1996', the Centre is recommended to explain to the responsible tax authorities every detail related' to this procedure to avoid funds being cancelled or optional services in recovery.
Audit of the Centre's premises'and staff situation Temporary premises 21. As the Court observed last year (8), the Centre had to invest ECU 120,000 to fit out the premises to make the temporary building functional and'ready for use'.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the Centre 'explained that these costs were involved to improve the conditions for efficient functioning of the Centre', but was unable to explain who was willing to bear these costs.
Permanent premises 22. The Centre and the Greek State signed on 22 June 1995, a basec agreement regarding the construction of the permanent building.
According to this agreement, the Centre will pay to the Greek State ECU 6 879 750 in four equal installations of ECU 1 719 937.
The first two were paid on 1 September 1995 and 1 September 1996
This third installation has to be approved by the budgety Authority and the last isalment will be paid when the building is handed" over.
23. If appropriate is given by the budgetary Authority before 1 September 1997, the Centre will have paid to the Greek' State ECU 5 159 811 for the construction of the permanent building.
The construction of the building was planned to communication on 30 March 1997.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the tendering procedure, which is managed by the Greek authorities, was not yet completed nor were any contracts signed.
As a consequence, no financial data or budget related to this investment was available for audit.
Staff 24. In 1996, the staff complement table authorized 81 posts (permanent and temporal positions), of which: 25 A, 11 LA, 15 B, 27 C and 3 D. At the time of the audit (May 1997), 78 persons were actually working in.
Thessaloniki, of which: 60 officials and temporary officials (25 A/LA, 10 B, 23 C and 2 D), 7 national experts, 5 local agents, 3 auxiliaries, 2 interims and 1 "stage."
25. Another three persons are working at Cedefop's office in Brussels, one person is followed to Eurostat for a cooperative project, three persons we're still in Berlin, This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors and 13 Novembers are on special leave (CCP) and one person has been ill for many months.
Many new members of staff have been recruited during 1996.
26. The Court has been informed of an investigation by the Greek tax authorities concerning, among others, tax and social security payments for local staff put at the disposition of Cedefop by a company in Thessaloniki.
Conclusion 27. In the case of at least 17 studies contracts and five fixed-asset purchases, contracts over the limit of ECU 12000 were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (see paragraph 16).
28. The Centre once again holds large cash balances.
This situation should be avoided by making quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of actual cash needs (see paragraph 19).
29. The Centre is recommended to make sure that the work concerning the permanent premises is progressing in conformity with the contract (see paragraph 23). in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President (!)
OJL39, 13.2.1975, p.1.
(2) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993, p. 11.
(3) OJ L 164, 24. 6. 1976, p. 1.
(4) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993, p. 15.
(5) Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1995 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop, Thessaloniki).
29. Furniture Current assets Fixed capital 1. Stocks 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Advances 4.VAT to recover 5. Expenditure to be charged Cash accounts 1. Bank account 2. Imprest account Sums t o b e recovered Assets 1996 1 4 4 4 7 66 8 483 294 3 151 882 29 ■ 1995 941 7 10 9 251 1962 5 360 504 16 Liabilities 1. Own capital 2. Balance for the financial year Current liabilities 1. Salary liabilities 2. Other liabilities Sums to be reimbursed Approached over Payments in progress Sums to be collected 1996 1450 1623 82 654 133 2 151 2 664 (in de current liabilities 1. Salary resolutions 2. Other liabilities Sums to be recovered over Payments in progress Sums to be collected 1996 1450 1623 82 654 133 2 151 2 664 (in de current liabilities 1. Salary resolutions 2. Other liabilities Sums to be recovered 1 October 1 2nd Paged 2nd Paged 6th October 6th June 1996.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 9 060
Total expenditure (b)
29. 12.97 ΓΕΝ Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/7 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure not provided for Total Definitive 7 839 3 008 3 974 14 821 Payments 6 225 (79.42) 2 667.
(88.65) 2 492 (62.71) 11384 (76.81) Carry-overs 510 (6.5) 258 (8.59) 1 383 (34.8) 2 151 (14.52) Canceled 1 104 (14.08) 83 (2.76) 99 (2.49) 1286 (8.67) Available 1287 864 2 664 10 4 825 (*) 1213 (94.32) 757 (87.52) 2 229 (83.67) 10 (100,00) 4 209 (87.23) Canceled 74 (5,68) 107 (12.38) 435 (16) 0 (0,00) 616 (12.77) TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 jUTILIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRI ATI ONS The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available approaches. (*) ECU 4 668 287 (31.1996) + ECU 156 500 (non-autonic carry-overs) Source: Preparce'ed the Court of the services.
1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 U.U.U.U.U.C.E.
2 151 048 (in ECU 1000)
C 393/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRINING The nature of the observations of the Court of Auditors maces it possible for the Management Board of the Centre to react in a directmanner.
The Board will follow the structure of the Court's observations and conclusions.
The numbering of the annotated paragraphs correspond to that used in the Court's report.
12. The Centre thanks the Court for the understanding show for the indicated transfers, which were necessary for smooth functioning in the Greek context and points out the exceptional nature of these operations which will not recur under normal circumstances.
16. Concerning the procedure to call for tips the following points should be taken into account: (a) Some ongoing contracts are based on earlier calls for interest and for tender.
In the case of the documentary network, for which contracts are mostly above ECU 12 000, these were signed in most cases with the same specialized institutions as in.previous years.
A high degree of continuity is needed in this work and a yearly call for leaders with the possibility of frequent changes in contracts would be very disruptive and, due to the need for training and a period of introduction, inefficiencies.
Nevertheless the performance of the contracts is carefully appreciated and a call for tips (on the basis of the call for interest recently made by the"Centre) will be launched in cases where it is considered that this performance is not satisfied. (b) Contracts for preparing new monographs describing the vocational education and training systems in the Member States (or for updating existing ones) are subject to the useful rules, i.e. a restricted invitation to tender is organised.
In the case of the monographs, this list is drawn up following consultation with members of the Management Board.
An exception to this rule was made during 1995 and 1996 in relation to monographs concerning the new Member States and the EEA countries, when it was thought more appropriate to take the decision directly following consultation with members of the Management Board.
As planned, the Centre launched a general call for an expression of interest for participation in networks and the performance of study contracts.
This was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities (C 214 of 16 July 1997) and the results of this call are now being processed.
17. Delays in complete transactions in relation to contracts in many cases Derive from defective administrative procedures, particularly the failure of contractors to forward in time the necessary invoices for payment.
Delays were also involved sometimes in signing contracts, allowing work on them to begin only some months after the date initially planned which had knock-on effects.
In other cases appeals were due to the need for intent and time-consuming discussion between the contractor and Cedefop on the basis of the contractor's. draft report.
In cases in which the contracting institution may be co-funding the activity itself, or obtaining some funding from another source, Cedefop cannot always determine the timetable.
This is particularly so, when the price that Cedefop is paying is lower than the market might dictate for the work involved.
Nevertheless, Cedefop will try to avoid delays.
In the case of unreasonable reasons the Centre indicates to the contractors that these effectively serious difficulties for them, as far as the prospects for future cooperation are concerned.
The new list of interested persons/institutions, which will be the result of the recent call for expression of interest, should enlarge the options available to the Centre for the future award of contracts and therefore make it easy to insert that contracts and their institutions strictly with the rules and timetable laid down.
A business-like approach will be mainstreamed.
19. The Management Board notes the improvements in 1996 and considers that further progress is possible.
It will intensify its effectivenesss to that end.
The Centre has improved its procedure by adding to every quarterly drawing from the Commission given a detailed statement with respect to the current supply of means of payment and the total payments expected during the subject four months.
The difference between these shows the balance of the real demand and, as a result, a permanent exit cash balance will be avoid.
20. The Centre immediately initiated action after the audit of the Court of Auditors and is pressing for recovery.
The accounting records for reclaiming from the German financial authorities the value-added tax (VAT) paid in 1995 and 1996 by the Centre have been subject.
The Centre has made contact with the responsible tax authorities in Greece and has been informed in detail on the procedure and appropriate preparation of the records for recovering value-added tax
29. 12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/9 (VAT) paid in previous years.
In the mean time, the records-concerning the financial years 1995 and 1996 have been prepared and forwarded to the authorities.
21. The Centre draws to mind that just the quickly refurbished temporal premises are not an optimally· solution (e.g. the available surface area is only +/-one third the size of the future new building), already new needs arise after Cedefop's relocation (partically, investment in the infrastructure for electronic equipment), jetter the initial agreement nor the Greek law is clear on who should bear such costs.
Legal advice confirmed the uncertainty.
The Centre had to make modifications to run operations efficiently.
The Centre recognizes that it would have been better to make arrangements beforehand on any additional investment.
The owner has taken note of these additional investments made by Cedefop and has shown a generic attitude in new issues (e. g. extra meeting facilities).
The Centre also will try to receive compensation in the setstlements at the end of the present rental contract.
23. The Centre agrees that the preparation time was very long, but is convinced that matters will now proceed rapidly.
The calendar for the coming period served by the Greek authorities is as follows: Calendar with main events and dates for Cedefop's new building Selection of the winner of the call for tender in the second round of tips Implementation of the structural work Foundation stone laid by Mr Pangalos, Foreign Affairs Minister Signing of the contract Estimated total time for completing the work Expected completion of the project The Centre expects that the budget authority will lift the reserve in the 1997 budget and that the Centre will be able to complete with its contractual obligations vis-à-vis the Greek Government.
Hopefully, the progress will be substantial enough to pay the third installation before the end of 1997.
This would also be of importance because in the budget proposal of 1998 there is no request for another installation.
24 vocalist There are indeed many new staff members registered and several persons working in the Centre on different contracts on top of the table of posts.
The social measures related to the transfer came to an end (May 1997) and the Management Board will asses the staff situation at the end of 1997.
30 July 1997 In progress 6 September 1997 30 October 1997 460 calendar days 10 May 1999 at the latest 26. The expectations are that the results of this investigation will not have concerns for the Centre.
27. As explained, a new extensive call for interest has been understood with success.
28. This situation has been improving over the last years and this trend Hopefully will continue in 1997.
29. The Centre did its utmost, and will continue to do so, to ensure that it will have a high-quality new building and to obtain good value for good money.
The cost of the new building could be less than the initial estimates.
The prospects are positive (see paragraph 23).
15 on 15 W. C 393/10 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements and managing for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Found Foundation), incorporated by the replies of the Foundation (97/C 392/02) CONTENTS The financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Found Foundation), incorporated by the replies of the Foundation (97/C 392/02) CONTENTS The financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year 1996 AUDIT OBSERVATION Introduction Background Scope of the auditory Financial data Follow up of previous observations Separations Separation of amounts Imprest account Transfers Absolutions Abbeyments of Abbey Abbeyments from Abbeyments of Abbey Abbeyes Abbeyments from Abbeyments 10 Abbeyments of Abbeyments Abbeyments a Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyments Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbeyment Abbey Abbey Abbey Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbey Abbey Abbey Abbeyment Abbeeds Abbeyeds Abbeyment Abbeyeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbeeds Abbey Abbeeds Abbeyeds Abbeyeds Abbs Abbs Abbs Abbey Abbey Abbs Abbeyeds Abbeyeds Abbies Abb
29. 12.97 [~already 1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/11 THE FINANCIAL STATES OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPREVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is added to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (l) as amended by Article 1 (4) of Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 (2).
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In accordance with Article 1 (16) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 ((4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Administrative Board.
This liability included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Article 1 (52), (54) and (55) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (4).
3. The Court understood its audit in accordance with generally accepted international auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context and, accordingly, carried out such tests of the accounting records and such other procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996 are reliable and the underlying transactions are, taken as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Foundation for the Improvement in Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (5) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of contributing 'to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions through action designed to increase and disseminate knowledge of this development'.
The Dublin Foundation communed operations in 1976.
Scope of the audit 6. The Court of Auditors has examined the accounts and financial management of the Dublin Foundation for the financial year 1996 in accordance with the provisions of the relevant policies[6).
A review of the cooperation with the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao and Directorate-General V of the Commission in the area of health and safety was also carried out.
Financial data 7. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Foundation.
Available approaches for the financial year 1996 estimated to ECU 13,8 million.
Commitments entered into gave rise to ECU 10,5 million in payments and ECU 3,1 million in carry-over to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 0,2 million having been cancelled.
Appropriations carried over from the previous year gave rise to ECU 2.9 million in payments and ECU 0.1 million in cancellations.
Table 3 attached to this report gives an analysis by title of the implementation of the commitments for the year and for those carried over from 1995.
Follow up of previous observations Separation of duties 8. There is still an inadequate separation of duties between the authority officer and the accounting officer (7), contravening Article 1 (15) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76. Impres account 9. Last year the Court recommended that the use of the impression account be limited to ongoing or small expenses, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
At the time of the audit in April 1997 a written definition of ongoing and small expenses still had not been established by the Foundation in consultation, with the Financial Controller.
Transfers of commitments between Titles 10. The Court welcomes the fact that no transfers of commitments between Titles were made during 1996.
The Court has criticized such transfers in previous years (8).
Mission Extensions 11. Some improvements have been made to strengthen the controls and monitoring of the results of missions.
The Foundation should continue its effects so as to ensure that:
C 393/12 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12... for all missions a report setting the times of meetings, persons met and the results of the meeting is prepared.
The report should be reviewed by a senior member of staff and filed centrally, wherever possible, more than one meeting should be arranged during a mission to Brussels in order to avoid the same staff member going to Brussels on successful weeks, well known.
Study contracts 12. The audit team of the Court followed up last year's observation regarding recommendations in the submission of work by contractors.
The minutes of the programme management meetings did not contain any evidence of a review of report deaths.
A summary of the information supplied by the Foundation during the audit is show in Table 4 and demonstrated the need for a formalization of follow.
Management of health and safety Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao recommended its activities in September 1996.
"Health and safety" was in the Foundation's programme of work for 1996, but was replaced in the programme of work for 1997 with "Health and well.
There is an urgent need for a clear and detailed M emotion of Understanding (currently being negotiated) to be agreed on by both satellite agencies.
This should maximum cooperation and exclusive any overlap in activities.
17. Formal contacts already exist at administrative level, notably through both directors addressing the other's Administrative Board meetings as an observer.
Links need to be extended to the research manager level in order to ensure full coordination.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. Directorate F of DG V, 'Public Health and Safety at Work', makes use of some of the Foundation's research within this specialized field.
Whilst maintaining the present independence of the Foundation's Administrative Board, there is a need to make more effective to ensure that its output is as useful as possible to DG V/F in terms of content and timing.
DG V/F is unable to attend all meeting concerning specific study contracts.
It would therefore be useful to hold periodic meetings at which the whole range of studies which may concern DG V/F can be discussed.
Conclusion 19. There is an inadequate separation of duties rights accounting officer and authority officer (see paragraph 8).
20. The use of the impress account should be regularised (see paragraph 9).
21. Controls over mission expenditure and the monitoring of study contracts should be tightened (see paragraphs 11 and 12).
22. Cooperation and communication with the Bilbao Agency and DG V/F in the fields of 'Health and safety at work' and 'Health and well.being' should be investigated (see paragraphs 16 to 18).
Budget implementation and the expenditure account Transfer of commitments revenue and 13. The value of transfers of commitments between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 1 366 000 (9.9% of commitments entered into the budget), down from ECU 1 494 000 (11,?) in 1995.
Carry-overs and cancellations of commitments 14. Table 3 shows that the payment rate is 76 % for the account as a whole, but only 55 % for Title 3 Operating expenditure'.
This is in line with previous years and is due to the fact that studies are usually paid in three installations over the period foreen in their contracts.
Revenue 15. The EU subsidies for the Foundation for 1996 was ECU 13,4 million.
The amount actually requested and received was ECU 12 895 632.
The funds were requested as required by the Council Regulations and in line with a cash flow forward, as previously recommended by the Court.
29. 12.97'1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities'C 393/13 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 and 13 November 1997. ί1) OJL139,30.5.75,p.1.
(2) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 93, p. 13.
(4) OJ L 164, 24. 6. 76, p. 16.
(5) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 published on 30 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30.5. 1975).
(6) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30. 5. 1975) on the creation of the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993).
Council Regulation (EEC) N o 1417/76 of l'June 1976 (OJ L 164, 24. 6. 1976) on the financial provisions applying to the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) N o 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23. 1993).
(7) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 8.
(8) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 10 and Dublin Foundation annual report 1994, paragraph 3.2.
For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIDMANN President
C 393/14 1 EN I - Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assets 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Mission advances 4. Miscellaneous advances 5. Bank charges Cash accounts Bank account Woods (IR £) Woods (IR £) in 1996 7106 1 5 1 38 337 3 9 2 440 794 204 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1 volume 1520 190 245 Liabilities 1996 (in ECU 1.000) in 1995 8 479 -2040 Woods (IR £) wood 18. 306 224 3 012 751 10 750 Fixed assets 1. Buildings 2. Furniture Current assets 1. Stocks Fixed capital 10 484 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by 'the Dublin Foundation.
10 484 - ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE Sheet AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 10 750 1. Own capital 8 695 2. Balance for the financial year - 2 8 8 3. Balance from the previous year - 2 040 Current liabilities Salary reductions 24 Revenue to be collected 336 Sums to be recovered ■ 209 Appropriations carried over 3 098 Payments in progress 450
C 393/16 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 jUTILIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRIATION Definitive 5 950 1 170 6 680 13 800 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
Canceled '50 (0.8) 16 (1.4) 130 (1.9) 196 (1.4) Available 28 177 2 807 3 012 Total The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available adaptations.
Year 1995 1996 Total contracts (') 110 62 Deadlines not respected (2) 57 42 Percentage (2)/ ((') 52 68 Payments 5 877 (98.8) 976 (84.4) 3 653 (54.7) Carry-overs 23 27 (96.4) 174 (98.3) 2 669 (95.1) 2 870 (95.3) Caitcelled 1 (3.6) 3 (1.7) 138 (4.9) 142 (4.7) 10 506 (76.1) 1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments - (0.4) 178' ((15.2) 2 897 (43.4) Total 172 99 58 (1) For 1996 only those contracts for which the contractual deadline was prior to 31 January 1997 have been included.
(2) Only cases where reports were shown as received over one month after the deadline have j)een included.
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
3 098 (22,5) TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 U.O.
29. 12.97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/17 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPREVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS Separation of duties 8. The Foundation would ask the Court to note that the two functions of authority and accounting officers are carried out separately by different individuals: a residual problem of separation of duties is limited to data input to the accounting system.
This problem will be resolved when the Foundation obtains delivery of a new system.
The Foundation is in contact with the Commission services with regard to the feeling of the application of the Commission's Sincom 2 system to the Foundation's accounting requirements. ~ - Imprest account 9. During 1996 the Foundation's use of the impress account was, in practice, in accordance with the recommendation of the Court, limited to ongoing or small expenses.
The Foundation, in June 1997 in consultation with the Financial Controller, established a written definition with regard to these expenses.
Mission expenses 11. In 1996, the Foundation further developed existing procedures with regard to mission reports.
This process will continue and will corporate the suggestions of the Court.
The Foundation continues to accommodate the optimal number of meetings during a particular mission.
The Court's comments regarding missions to Brussels are, however, noted.
Following the successful completion of a pilot scheme during 1996 the Foundation has now installed a tele-conference facility.
It is intended to review the implementation of this facility at the end of a trial period at which time further decisions will be taken, based on a cost analysis, regarding the value of acquiring more extensive and sophisticated video-conferencing equipment.
Study contracts 12. Although the minutes of the programme management meetings have not registered the situation on specific contract dies, such discussions on each contract take place at every meeting and appropriate action is taken.
With regard to such recording the Foundation is now establishing an improved system for formalization of follow-up procedures in order to present a more realistic picture.of the situation.
Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The memorandum of Understanding currently under consideration is regarded as a priority item by the Foundation.
The establishment of left at research-manager level has also communicated.
These will be intended in line with any increase in activities undertaken by the Bilbao Agency.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. The Foundation.is very cognisant of the need for its output to be relevant to the work of DG V. The Commission is represented on the Foundation's Administrative Board by the Deputy-Director-General of DG V. Various forms of working relations have been established with the Directorates of DG V, including mutual participation in working groups as appropriate.
Specificly through the office of the Director of DG V/F the Foundation has regular contacts with officials in the various units within DG V/F. Presentation of aspects of the Foundation's work to DG V officials is provided for within the Foundation's operational activities.
The Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work in Luxembourg is also kept informed of the Foundation's programme and its results.
More generally there is a flow of relevant documentation from the Foundation to DG V •in relation to the results of the work programmes.
The Court's acknowledged that DG V/F is frequently impossible to attend meetings relation to specific study contracts is noted.
The Foundation is fully open to alternative proposals from DG V/F with regard to rendering of the Foundation's output.
C 393/18 I EN [Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products (EMEÄ, London) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/03) 1.1.
This report is added to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products, pursuant to Article 57 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (*).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accordance with Article 57 (7) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 (l).
His replies include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in accordance with thé internal financial provisions provided for in Article 57 (11) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court concluded its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards in so far as they are appropriate to the Community context.
It examined the account books and records and carried out such additional audit procedures as it considered necessary.
The financial statements concerning the financial year 1996 are related and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions as a whole are guaranteed.
MAIN OBSERNATIONS CONCERNING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE EVALUATION OF MEDICINAL · PRODUCTS (EMEA, LONDON) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budgets accounts 1.5.
The Agency's budget accounts do not enable the principle of the uncertainty of the accounts to be guaranteed, as a posteriori modifications are possible and undetectable.
Further, the accounts do not make it possible to detect cases of spending in excess of available commitments.
The current system does not allow the authority officer to input accounting data (proposals for commitments and payment orders) to the computer.
These data are recorded by the accounting officer in the accounts for the record (Temporary freezing) before being approved by the Financial Controller.
This practice does not provide accurate information on the accounts in real time.
As the Sincom 2 system, which is supposed to replace the present accounting system, is not yet operational, an alternative solution should preferably be sound without delay.
General accounts in the analytical state 1.7.
The general accounts software that is currently used is inefficient for the Agency's needs and is separate from the budget accounts system.
Further, the Agency has no system of analytical accounts, which is however independent if one wishes to establish whether the scale of fees laid down by the Council (3) adequately covers the costs of evaluation.
Use of commitments.
1.8. The commitments carried forward from 1995 to 1996 totalled ECU 5.9 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million (29%) was cancelled.
ECU 0,9 million of 1995 acquisitions made available for reuse but not used in 1996 were also cancelled. 1.9.
Only 79,6 % of current approaches (ECU 22,6 million before the SAB and ECU 17,9 million after a reduction made following the adoption of an amending budget) were implemented and 20,7 % were cancelled (ECU 4,7 million).
The main reason for this was the impossibility of recruiting staff in good time (only 65 % of the posts for which provision had been made); a second reason was the reduction in licence applications and in the corresponding studies.
1.10. The commitments carried forward from 1996 to 1997 totalled ECU 4.8 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million and ECU 2.8 million concern Titles II (administrative expenditure) and III (operational expenditure).
In the case of Title II, ECU 1,1 million concern purchases of equipment based on new technology.
In the case of Title III, ECU 1,3 million concern fees to be paid to the inspectors during examinations (started in 1996 and finished in 1997) and ECU 0,8 million was for orphan drugs.
29."
12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/19 Imprest account 1.11.
Contrary to accounting principles, a loss of ECU 0,02 million in 1994 was listed under expenditure to be settled in 1995 and 1996. ^ Revenue; subsidies; own resources 1.12.
The total révenue actually collected, i.e. ECU 18,4 million, represents 81 % of the amount for which the budget initially provided.
The fees collected amounted to ECU 7 million.
Only 73 % of the amount initially provided for could be collected and checked.
The balance sheet shows ECU 0,9 million of fees due that have not yet been validated and established in accordance with Article 5 (3) of the Agency's Financial Regulation. 1.14.
In 1997, the Agency adopted a new computer system for revenue.
This system will be exhausted during the next Court audit.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997.
0 OJ L 214, 24'.
8. 1993, p. 18.
(2) Pursuant to Article 57 (9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 26 March 1997, on which date they were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and delivered to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 31 March 1997.
The short fornì of these financial statements is presented in the tables included to this report.
(3) OJ L 35, 15. 2. 1995.
Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assts Equipment and furniture 1996 1 893 1 893 1 893 0 893 0 147 728 113 1995 1394 1394 0 21 199 937 1 157 8 249 8 249 10 800 Liabilities Capital (l) Balance for the year ^ Current liabilities 1996 1 893 4 583 6 476 1620 3 282indeeded 8 190 895gan 728 7 235 13 7 771 (in ECU 1.000) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 564 1226 41 85 390 0 199 7 855 10 800 Fixed assets Fixed capital Current assets subsidies acceptable Sundry account to obtainable VAT to be recoverableexpenditure to be ccched Cash accounts approximately around currents a account Terrover- Autostras to enable to submit to submit to submit to subject subject to subject subject to subject subject to subject to subject claims subject to subject to subject data to request (s).
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 Total 988 Total 756 10 074 10 830 13 711 Total
29. 12.97 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/21 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Received from the Commission Fees Miscellaneous revenue Staff Woods Title I Payments Applications carried over Total revenue 1996 11 000 7 004 372 18 376 6 593 263 2 858 1698 3 650 2 811 138 18 011 365 1 551 2 667 4 583 (in ECU 1000) 1995 10150 3 210 299 13 659 3 594 243 3 0 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551 Buildings, equipment and various administrative expenses Woodne II Payments Applications over Operating expenditure worden.
Budget Title III Payments Commitments carried over Miscellaneous expenditure not included in budget Payments to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Exchange losses Outturn for the financial year Balance carried over from previous year Approaches carried over from previous year, cancelled Total expenditure Balance to be carried over Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
In the absence of a commercial computing system which meets the requirements of the Financial Regulation and until the new SI2 system, developed by the Commission, which the Agencies are in the process of adapting to their needs, is available, the Agency is managing its budget accounts using Excel software.
This software uses that the information required for the sound management of the budget is always available and it provides the Agency's management with information which is relevant and up-to-date.
The software versions budget commitments, commitments, orders, frozen commitments and payments.
The existing system indicates cases spending in excess of available commitments.
The supporting document for each entry in the budget system is the document signed by the authority officer.
It is approved by the Financial Controller and is processed by the accounts department.
It is true that the Agency's system is not yet completely computerized and, because it does not retain in its memory changes to include, it does, in principle, allow changes to be made without any indication there appears in the general accounts.
However, it should be noted that all commitments, cancellations, payment orders, etc. are prepared and classified in accordance with the rules, the relevant supporting documents being placed in annex.
In the new system it will not be possible to make ex post facto changes without there being any indication there.
Like most of the Agencies, the EMEA expects that the work on the SI2 project will be completed in 1997 and that the system will be made available.
The new system will allow the general accounts to better integrated with the budget accounts.
Together with the other Agencies, the EMEA issued an invitation to tender two years ago for compatible software; the result was disappointing.
The EMEA alternatives that the SI2 system, adapted to the needs of the Agency, will be available by the end of 1997.
1.7. On 5 February 1997 the Management Board adopted a report on the cost of operational activities, which was forwarded to the Commission.
The Agency is busy structure its accounts system so as to include analytical accounts.
In addition, a pilot programme for the electronic recording of activities has been started. 1.8.
The sum of ECU 0,9 million in 1995 proposals made available for reuse but not used in 1996 releases notably to Article 204 (fitting-out of premises).
As these approaches could not be transferred and as no significant fitting-out work was carried out in 1996, the sum in question was cancelled.
1.11. Article 5 of the Financial Regulation promotes that expenditure for which authorisation reaches the Financial Controller no later than 31 December, and for which the corresponding payments are made no later than the following 15 January, will be entered in the accounts for the financial year which is coming to a close.
Following the imprecise interpretation of these provisions in 1994 a sum of ECU 16 915.22. was impressed to the impression account.
Following discussions with the Court's auditors the sum in question was settled in the 1997 accounts.
1.13. Even if, with more experience in the field, the Agency was able to improve its estimates of the volume of users to be received, taking account also of the seasonal nature of their submission, the Agency would still be no more able in the future than it is at present to form, one year in advance, exact estimates of the plans of the Pharmaceutical industry and therefore of the amount which might be expected from fees.
These uncertainties mean that the Agency is required to pursue a cautious policy with regard to expenditure.
29. 12.97 ΓΕΝ~ official Journal of the European Communities C 393/23 REPORT on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the I external Market (OHI M, Alicante) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Office's replies (97/C 393/04) 1.1.
This report is added to the budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the I external Market pursuant to Article 137 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 C).
The Court has examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the I external Market for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office in accordance with the requirements of Article 119 (2) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2).
His replies include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (3) in accordance with the internal financial rules, as provided for by Article 137 of Regulation (EC) No 40/94. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court.of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
I t carried out tests on the account books and records and such' additional procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report.
1.4. For the reasons indicated in paragraphs 1.8 to 1.12 (own revenue) the Court was unable to form an opinion as to whether the accounts under the revenue show in the financial statements are dependent.
Subject to the above reservations, the financial statements for the financial year 1996 are dependent and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, assured.
MAIN OBSERVATE ONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE OFFI CE FOR HARMONI ZATI ON AND NTERNAL MARKET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget accounts 1.6.
Although 1996 is the Office's third year of activity, the accounts department of the Office still does not have significant budget accounting software.
Monitoring the implementation of the budget is carried out with the aid of a tool which is not a real accounting system (changes may be made to enteres with no subject record of their having been made, absence of any link to the general accounts, etc.). 1.7.
The Office does not poses any system of analytical accounting, which is, however,, indispensable for the purposes of establishing the real cost of services rendered.
Own revenue 1.8.
Before the entry into service, in May 1996, of the system set up to monitor the charges associated with the filling of trade marks (Euromarc), two alternative systems had been used temporally to monitor applications for trade-mark registrations.
The risk that is inherent in the transfer of data from these temporal systems to Euromarc is high and the Court was therefore impossible to form an opinion as to whether such transfers were complete.
The Office was not able to demonstrate that the Euromarc system was functioning according to the description it had given.
The Court is, therefore, not in a position to state with certainty that the reliability of the system is assured.
The new description draw up by the Office reached the Court too late for it to be able to carry out the additional work that was necessary to remove this unknown.
For reasons which are mainly due to the unwieldiness of Euromarc and the complexity of the THE regulations, long deals in dealing with applications were observed.
Some clients reported to the Office on this account.
Moreover, the accumulated delay prevented the entry of more than ECU 12.4 million of revenue out of a total of ECU 45.9 million in receptions.
The difference, i.e. ECU 33,5 million, was entered under liabilities and show on the balance sheet as 'advances from clients'.
Of this amount, ECU 4,7 million was made up of payments that could not be linked to the related trade-mark applications.
Bearing in mind that new payments arrive every day, these old transactions must be identified as a matter of urgency.
C 393/24 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 ACPC 1.12.
The Office's ACPC was not created until 1 April 1996.
Several contracts for which the opinion of the ACPC would have been required, had. already been approved by the Office on the basis of an Operating report' acc company, in some cases, by a note from the legal department, concerning the regularity of the procedure followed.
Such notes can, under no circumstances, replace the opinion of the ACPC.
Appropriations carried over; cancellations; transfers 1.13.
Appropriations carried over to 1997 totalled ECU 14,5 million (total automatic carry-over), i.e. 44.8 % of the total of ECU,32,4 million of acceptances for the financial year.
These approaches carried forward originally in the large volume of trade-mark applications which had not been processed at the end of the year.
The total of current acquisitions which lapsed was ECU 5,6 million, i.e. 17,3 % of the commitments for the financial year.
As far as the commitments carried over from the financial year L995 are concerned ECU 4,65 million, i.e. 14,6 %, lapsed (ECU 0,68 million).
Transfers approximately amounted to ECU 7.6 million.
The. totals quoted, as well as the commitments carried over to the financial year 1997 and the volume of revenue received, show the inaccuracy of the budget estimates for the financial year 1996.
An amendment of the initial budget estimates should have been made during the financial year.
Buildings 1.16.
The Office continues to collect a building belonging to the Spanish authorities and placed at its disposing free of charge.
However, no contract exists in this respect.
As far as the final location is concerned, the Office has open negotiations in respect of a proposed acquisition and has entered an initial amount in the budget for superior work.
1.17. It must be emphased that the Office must ensure that the necessary proposals are available before a legal commitment is entered into.
(2) OJ L 11, 14. 1.1994, p. 30.
(3) Pursuant to Article 137 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 21 February 1997.
These accounts were received by the Court on 25 February 1997.
The short form of these financial statements is to be found in the tables included to this report.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President 29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/25 Fixed assets Fixed capital Installations and furniture Movable equipment Computer equipment Intangible assets Current assets Subtotal Capital 0 2 412 Balance for the year (4 318) Securities and Guarantees received 3 Other long-term liabilities 43 Subtotal (2) (1 860) Current liabilities Automationc carry-overs of 14 517 approaches Revenue for reuse 69 Institutions 478 Sundry accounts due 35 Balance of Commission subsidies (3) 6289 VAT and charges to be recovered 429 Advances from clients 33 511 Subtotal 55 328 total liabilities 53 468 Commission to recover Sovereigns recoverables.
Cash accounts Bank total Subtotal assets Assets "1996 383 48 1 890 91 2 412 6 289 42 429 6 760 44 291 5 44 296 53 468 1995 569 48 162 779 3 275 26 169 3 470 1 863 16 1 879 6128 Liabilities 1996 (in ECU 1000) 1995 779 478 2 43 1302 4 648 9 169 4 826 6 128 ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE Sheet FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 (') This amount corresponds to total fixed assets.
(2) The negative total of the balance for the year and capital does not constitute a loss of capital.
It is the result of applying the Financial Regulation in respect of revenue (only revenue which has been collected) and expenditure (payments plus payments carried over).
(3) In the financial statements for the financial year 1995, the amount of Commission subsidies still to be paid at the end of the financial year is listed as revenue.
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities. '
Source: Draw up-by the Court, on the basis of information supplied by the Office.
ye ye ye ye ye ye y 2015elles at. in 2015 ~N~1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Commission subsidies Commission subsidies received receiveivable (*) Miscellaneous revenue Own revenue Expenditure Staff in. Title I Payments Applications carried over Buildings, equipment, etc.. Title II Payments Applications carried over total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 8 291 1061 12 369 217221 8 903 403 3 279 8 na na na.
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities..
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/27 REPLIES OF THE OFFICE FOR HARMONIZATION IN THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET 1.4.
Own revenue The payment of the fees and charges associated with the filing and registration of a Community trade-mark is the final step in a lengthy procedure, which is laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993.
Between the time a trade-mark application is filed and the time the accounting charges are entered in the accounts there is usually an intervening of two months, in the course of which the case is least three different types of staff.
The whole process is computerized and each category of staff involved is authorized to access the computer system which covers the duties for which they are responsible.
In order to be able to cover in a limited amount of time (two to three days) all the stages involved from receive of application to enter in the accounts of the charges, it is absolutely essential that the cases selected at the outside receive priority treatment.
This is possible providing two conditions are met: 1. that a single user is authorized, temporally and by way of exception, to have access to all computer systems required to complete all the stages, up to entry in the accounts, and 2. that the demonstration of the approved procedure takes place in a test environment in order that there may be all the flexibility of use required without the production base being connected.
During the visit of the auditors in February 1997 it was not possible to carry out such a demonstration in the time available for technical reasons.
Measures have already been put in place to ensure that a complete presentation of the revenue payment system can be made during the auditors' visit which is planned for October 1997.
Budget accounts Like the other Agencies, the OHIM is awaiting the final version of the Sincom 2 budget accounting software.
This software ought to be available towards the end of 1997.
Once the OHIM receives the software, it will be brought into use over a period of a few months.
Analytic accounts The Office will start to establish analytical accounts for certain areas of activity at the starting of 1998, when it will have a successful broadcast and stable production base in certain sectors to be able to establish realistic standards.
Own revenue While changing over to the final system for monitoring applications and charges, the Office verified extremely though that the data transferred were consistent.
Moreover, bank reconciliations confirmed the results of the transfer.
The Office therefore considers that the transfer was carried out correctly.
1.9 in 1.10.
System for the payment of charges See reply to paragraph 1.4.
Deal hi the identification/entry of payments On account of the large number of applications received in 1996 (43 000 rather than the 15 000 anticipated), the Office built up a certain backlog in 1996 in the entry of application charges.
The Office has now almost caught up with this backlog.
As regards the ECU 4,7 million made up of non-identified payments, the situation has been rectified since March 1997, as intended and explained to the Court's auditors.
At present, the time-lag between the reception of a cheque by the OHIM and its identification and transfer to the bank is six days.
C 393/28 ΓΕΝ~1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 1.13 ACPC The ACPC began operating as soon as the Office's Financial Regulation and the implementing rules applicable to the Financial Regulation, which government the composition of the ACPC, entered into force.
Before the creation of the ACPC the OHI M had no alternative but to follow the procedure which it did, namely to consult the legal department in respect of contracts exceeding a third of ECU 42 000, in order to ensure that the procurement procedure was in accordance with the rules applicable to the conclusion of public contracts.
In the case of sizeable contracts, the OHI M was completed during this transitional period to use the contracts of the other institutions and of the Commission in particular, in order to benefit from the legal guarantee attached to such contracts and the economies of scale which necessarily result.
Appropriations carried over A relative large amount of commitments were carried over in 1996.
80 % of the carry-overs in question related to procedural expenditure (searches/ translation/publications, etc.).
In accordance with Article 29 of the Financial Regulation, the Office must commit the procedural expenditure operating from Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 on the Community trade-mark the moment application charges are entered in the accounts.
This is effectively unavoidable expenditure, the implementation of which is directly linked to the collection of the application charges.
Clearly, during this start-up phase, taking into account the fact that the number of applications was much higher than anticipated (+ 280%), the discount between the commitment of procedural expenditure and the actual implementation of the procedures in question is much greater than during normal operation.
This situation is progressive being regularized; in 1997 measures carried over in respect of procedural expenditure will be clearly less.
The 1996 budget was drawn up at the end of June 1994 and submitted to the budget authority in February 1995.
At that stage, there was nothing to suggest that the OHIM would be faced with such a number of trade-mark applications.
In June and September 1996 the OHI M informed its budget Committee of how the situation was developing, drawing its attention to the budget resolutions.
It should be noted that some of the.lapsed approaches come under Chapter 1 1 and relate in particular to heading 1 1 3 (Constitution or maintenance of pension rights for temporary staff) (ECU 1.31,000).
These approaches were entered in the budget at the request of the Commission in order to cover the employees' contribution to pensions payable to staff (it was said that this entry was contrary to the staff regulations).
I n the mean time, the Commission has indicated that no pension fund exists and that no amount is due as an employer's contribution.
As regards the other lapsed approaches, they are necessarily amendments relation to procedural expenditure for which it was impossible to make commitments in 1996 due to lock of time.
Building There is no lease contract between the Spanish authorities and the OHI M. for the later's occupation of its temporal seat at 20 Avenida de Aguilera.
There is, however, a document entered 'Acte de remise des clés du siège provisoire' (Deed of delivery of keys to the temporal seat), which was signed on 25 February 1994 by the Cosoami and the OHIM and which provides for the OHI M to occupy the temporal seat until it is able to obtain the final seat.
Final seat The OHI M has taken note of the Court's observation concerning the availability of acceptances for the acquisition of the final seat.
Its budget Committee has, however, approved the acquisition of the first phase of the final seat by means of bank loan financing.
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/29 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/05) 1.1.
This report is added to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency, pursuant to Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 i1).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 1996.
The Court carried out tests on the account books and records and also such additional audit procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The observations set out in paragraphs 1.6 to 1.15 show that there are accounting practices in use at the Agency which are not consistent with the regulations.
There are also certainsums for which no justification could be given.
Subject to the above reservations, the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 1996 are - related and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, guaranteed. of accounts.
No such rehabilitation was made during the financial year 1996.
Further, for the financial year 1996, such recovery was complicated by the consolidation of a substantial proportion of the general account entries (the various budget accounts were grouped into five major expenditure accounts in the general accounts; several non-budget entries concerning various credit or debit operations in respect of staff were also grouped together in a single account in the general accounts).
Another weight of this accounting system is the impossibility of checking a posteriori the level of acceptances during the year and thus of ensuring that available acceptances have not been exhausted.
1.8. Further, it was noted that a balance of approximately ECU 0,02 million was shown on the balance sheet (sundry accounts payable) for which the Agency was unable to provide the Court with the appropriate supporting documents (see consolidation problem mentioned in paragraph 1.6).
The Agency's budget accounts are still behindhand and could not provide the authority officers and the Financial Controller with the information they need if the former are to commit themselves legally in respect of third parties and the later to give his approval to the proposals for commitments that are subject to him.
For this reason, the Agency has had to set up a parallel system for monitoring the implementation of the budget so as not to exceed available commitments, as it did during the previous financial year (see report on the implementation of the 1995 budget), and to enable the authorities to check at all times the level of commitment of the commitments for which they are responsible (failure to observe Articles 58 and 59 of the implementing provisions for the Commission's Financial Regulation, which also apply to the EEA, as the Agency has not adopted its own implementing provisions).
As the Sincom 2 system is unlikely to be available within a reasonable time, the Agency should preferably seek an alternative solution so as to have an effective accounting system at its disposition.
The methodology applied during the financial year 1996 completed neither with accounting rules nor with the MAIN OBSERVATIONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (EEA, COPENHAGEN) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget and general accounts 1.6.
The accounts continue to be kept on two different computerized accounting systems: commercial software is used for the general accounts and another tool is used for the budget accounts.
This double system would require regular (at least monthly) reconciliations of the two sets CONCERNING THE
C 393/30 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 Communities' financial regulations and effectively led to the financial statements (trial balance, balance sheet and revenue and expenditure account) being submitted after the deadlines had exhausted.
1.12. The approach adopted by the Management Board for drawing up and submitting the financial statements is thus not a relevant one.
1996 payments recorded in 1997 1.15.
Appropriations carried over; contracts 1.18.
The percentage of commitments carried forward This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. ί1) OJ L 120, 11. 5. 1990, p. 4.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI EDMANN President
12.12.97 1 EN Wetne 628 Siekie 629 Stay at a distance of 2 in Europe Communities C 393/31 Fixed assets Ass Ass Ass Assts 1996 1995 153 2 209 9 2 371 0 172._ 32 421 5 740 6 3 243 3 243 1179 Liabilities Fixed capital Capital C) Balancecarried forward Subtotal (2) Short-term liabilities N-automatic carry-overs Automatic carry-overs Automatic carry-overs Automatic Automotive carry-overs Accounts 1996 2 629 (3387) 89 15 20 0 6 392 12 809 12 0 (in ECU 1,000) 1995 2 371 1 844 479 Equip
2 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE AACCOUNT FOR 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue received from the Commission Miscellaneous revenue Exchange profits Subsidence received i1) Expenditure Staff nur Title I Payments Applications carried over total revenue 1996 8 329 157 0 8 486 4 500 235' 2 099 193 1 4 5 786 20 14 298 (5 812) 1844 581 (3 387) (in ECU 1,000) 1995 6 219 362 0 5 740 12 321 2 896 488 320 637 6 465 32 421 sts. 12 461 (140) 193 1 791 1844 Building, equipment and various items of administrative administration expenditures Budd Tille II Pay Mr.
29. 12.97 I EN For more information: Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/33 REPLIES OF THE EUROPE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY Budgets and general accounts Point 1.6 For more information: Budget and accounting systems The Agency provides from the Lack of an integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
C 393/34 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 and the resulting efficiency, the Agency use SI2 for its integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
29. 12.97 Γ Ε Ν journal Journal of the European Communities C 393/35 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/06) 1.1.
THE Contracts and ACPC 1.12.
C 393/36 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 tender (sometimes in the absence of a preliminary invitation to interested parties to apply).
OJL36,12.2.1993,p.6.
OJ L 341, 30.12.1994, p. 7.
C 393/38 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Commission subsidies Commission grants receiveivable Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff in Title I.
29. 12.97 [ EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/39 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN MONITORING CENTRE FOR TRUGS AND TRUG ADVICE
C 393/40 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 1.16.
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/41 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies (97/C 393/07) 1.1.
C 393/42 1 EN in Official Journal of the European Communities' 29. 12. 97 for 1996) for certain items of expenditure was not recorded in the accounts of the Foundation (but in separate accounts).
Awarding of contracts 1.12.
2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 [ 2015 2015 2015] Net results Short Short Short Short accounts] 1578 1794 3 365 431 2 2 2 2 45 28 8 652 (in ECU 1.000) 1995) 543 Subsidy (Commission) 431 subtotal 986 Cash accounts Banks current accounts 2015 1 2015 2015]
29. 12.97 AND EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/45 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN TRYING FOUNDATION 1.5.
1.12.
C 393/46 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 be carried out for Tempus projects (Phare and Tacis) and Phare vocational training programmes.
29. 12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/47 REPORT on the financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Fincial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/08) 1.1.
C 393/48 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 years), these contributions are to be flat-rate and are to be calculated on the basis of each body's forecast of its translation needs.
OJ L 314, 7.12.1994, p. 3.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/49 Fixed assets 1996 17 464 Subtotal 481 BALANCE Assets 1996 SHEET FOR 1995 198 198 924 1122 THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Liabilities Fixed capital Own capital (x) Net results Short-term liabilities Applications carried over by the Budgetary Authority Automatic carry-over Sundry accounts payable Net contributions from clients (2) Subtotal Total liabilities (in ECU 1.000) 1995 334 334 320 468 788 1122 Equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets Clients 259 Sundry accounts recievable 7 Subtotal 266 Cash accounts Banks 1 quads 1 quart
ΓΕΝΗ Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Various revenue Own revenue Recoverable revenue (λ) Expenditure Staff in Title I Payments Applications carried over Total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 " 90 2 703 2 793 1 155 905 (in ECU 1000) 1995 12 1095 198 1305 181 393 2 395 971 334 Buildings, equipment, etc. In Title I Payments 88 Applications carried over Outturn for the financial year Outturn from previous financial year developments carried over and cancelled.
29. 12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/51 Replies OF THE TRANSLATION CENTRE FOR THE BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN Union Budget accounts 1.5.
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/53 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. (') OJ L 227, 1.9.1994, p. 27.
{ { { { 2015 { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { { 2015 { { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { 2015 { { 2015 { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { 2015 { { { { { { 2015 { 2015 { 2015 { { 2015 { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { { 2015 { { { 2015 { { { { { { 2015 { { { { { { { { { { { { { { 2015 { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { 2015 { { { { { { 2015 { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { 2015 { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { 2015 { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { { 2015 { 2015 { { { { { 2015 { { { { { { { { { { {
29. 12.97 AND EN.
C 393/56 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 REPLIES OF THE COMMUNICATION PANT VARIITY OFFICE The main points raised by the Court in this document on the execution of the budget for the these years relate to the absence of: just effective IT for general and budget accounting, welcome Financial Controller, a Consultative Committee on Procurement and Contracts.
29. 12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/57 President of the Council had to stand in as 'Methodaire', b) no relevant purchase or tendering exercise exhausted the thrilled set under the Financial Regulation of the Commission.
C 393/58 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/10) 1.1.
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/59 were also deals in the recruitment of the persons who make up the Agency's basec staff.
C 393/60 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Fixed assets Fixed capital Equipment and furniture Computer equipment Liquid assets Sundry accounts receiveable VAT and duties Own funds (l) Balance for the financial year Short-term liabilities Subtotal Cash accounts Banks non-unit current Imprest amount account total Subtotal assets 34 16 1 9 7 5 100 2 075 2 157 Applications carried over by the budget Authority Automation carry-overs Sundry "accounts due Assets 1996 25 7 Subtotal -32 Liabilities (in ECU 1,000) 1996 32 83.2 234 969 76 161 2 5 157 (') This corresponds to the fixed assets.
Source:'Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Recoverable V A T and duties Subtotal liabilities
29.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/61 TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR.1996 Total revenue (ECU 1000) 1996 3 000 36 3 036 292 81 884.
6 3 0 319 2 206 830 830 Revenue Commission subsidies Sundry revenue expenditure Staff in Title I Payments Buildings, equipment, etc. in Title II Payments Applications carried over Operating expenditure in Title III Payments.
Applications carried over Outturn for the financial year Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
Total expenditure Balance for the financial year
C 393/62 1 EN WORK The Court of Auditors visited the Agency for Safety and Health at Work from 12 to 16 May 1997 and carried out the audit for the financial year 1996.
The Director presented the objectives, programme and activities carried out, under way or planned.
In order to facilitate the work of the Court, the accounts and all relevant supporting documents were made available to the Court.
The personnel files and the contracts concluded were also presented.
The Court forwarded its preliminary comments with a view to drawing up the report on the financial statements of the Agency (financial year 1996) in its letter No 001594 of 15 July 1997.
The Agency, which welcomes the conclusions drawn in paragraph 1.4 of the Court of Auditors' draft report, in so far as the Court states that the financial statements for the financial year 1996 were dependent and, on the whole, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions were guaranteed, would like to comment on the following paragraphs.
Paragraph 1.5.
The breakdown is complete because when the budget was being drawn up in 1995 it was not possible to plan in detail the budget requirements for the financial year 1996 and to include specific amounts; this was due to the fact that the Agency was in its start-up phase.
As a result, 'token entry' was entered in most chapters.
Paragraph 1.6.
It is true that there is no documentary evidence to show that the Administrative Board of the Agency approved the amendments to the initial budget for 1996.
In order to avoid a similar situation in the future it was agreed, at the meeting of the Bureau of the Administrative Board on 5 and 6 June 1997, that the minutes of meetings would include, in addition to the account of the discussions at meeting, a document explaining the formal decisions taken, in order to facilitate their return.
Paragraph 1.7.
The Agency does not indeed possess suitable software for its budget accounts and it is intended to use Excel.
In order to overcome this, the Agency has joined forces with the other Agencies to analyse the feasibility of an integrated software package such as the prototype of the beta version of SI2 provided by the European Commission.
Moreover, the Agency is following with interest the progress of the software being developed by Cedefop in Thessaloniki, which would appear to meet our needs as it commits a budgety and accounting management module as well as human resource management modules.
The Bilbao Agency will take a decision before the end of the year on the installation of one system or another, depending on the results of tests using both systems and the opinion of the superior bodies (Financial Controller and Court of Auditors).
The Agency is doing all it can to improve the administration of its impres account and in September 1997 installed the RAI software with the assistance of the EMCDDA in Lisbon.
Paragraph 1.8.
In order to make good the deficit described by the Court of Auditors, the Agency acquired Cubic software in June 1997 which, the training of the competent staff having been completed, is already being used to keep the general accounts.
Paragraph 1.9.
It is true that the implementation of the budget for 1996 was adversely affected by the delay in the recruitment of the Director and staff for the administration unit of the Agency.
The said staff were only registered in May 1997, when the head of the unit and two assistants (a computer expert and a financial officer) took up their posts.
This means that the gradual introduction of all the systems necessary to ensure sound financial management (staff management, budget and accounting management, conclusion of contracts and general services) did not begin until after the said date.
Paragraph 1.10.
At the time of the negotiations on the seat of the Agency the Basque Government and the County of Vizcaya committed themselves to pay 75% of the cost of the rent of the office building obtained by the Agency.
Despite the
29. 12.97 1 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/63 absence of an agreement signed between the Agency and the Basque authorities to this effect, the Basque Government has, as of September 1997, paid the Agency a subsidy of Pta 20 million and the County of Vizcaya has initiated the necessary procedures for the payment of its subsidy of Pta 10 million.
Paragraph 1.11.
In accordance with the provisions of its Financial Regulation, the Agency is doing all it can to make good the deficits pointed out by the Court of Auditors as regards public contracts and has recently submitted a draft Regulation for the creation of an ACPC for the opinion of the Financial Controller at the Commission and to the Court of Auditors for information; the Regulation is based, as far as possible, on the models adopted by the other Agencies.
As regards the contracts for the procurement of goods and services concluded by the Agency, notably since the audit concluded by the Court in May 1997, it should be pointed out that invitations to tender always been issued, even where the value of the estimated expenditure would have enabled private treatment.
The Agency would like to assure the Court that it is doing all it can to acquire, as quickly as possible, all the means necessary to carry out the improvements indicated by the Court of Auditors.
It would ask the Court to take account of the differences it has had in its start-up phase in respecting in full the rules dealing from Financial and other Regulations to which all its activities should be subject.
NOTICE TO READERS In 1998 several changes to the Official Journal (OJ) L & C subscription will be included.
This notice aids to help paying subscribers make an informed choice about the new options.
EU LAW SERVICE Starting in January 1998, the full text (included tables and graphics) of new editions of the OJ L & C will be available in all 11 languages free of charge on the Internet (http://europa.eu.int) for a period of 20 days.
OJ L&C CD-ROM In 1998 a CD-ROM version of the OJ L & C will be published in quarterly, cumulative, single-language editions.
Current subscribers to the OJ L & C who purchase the CD-ROM subscription in addition to the paper or microfiche version or CELEX will benefit from a promotional discount of 50% on the CD-ROM.
A LAN option will be available.
Individual copies of each CD-ROM can also be purchased.
FLAT FEE SUBSCRIPTION TO CELEX In Spring 1998 a flat fee subscription to CELEX will be available, offering one year's access at a fixed price (ECU 960), independent of consumption.
CELEX is the EU's official legal database offering unparalleled coverage of EU legislation since 1951 (http://europa.eu.int/celex).
Penalties FOR LATE RENEWALS OF PAPER SUBSCRiption Despatch of the paper version of the OJ L & C will be stopped on 31 January 1998 to all paying subscribers who have not renewed their subscription by then.
Subscribers starting or renewing a subscription to the OJ L & C after this date may choose: (i) not to receive retroactive despatch of missing editions, and pay only for months received; (ii) to receive the CD-ROM version of the missing editions, and pay the normal annual subscription fee; (iii) to receive the paper version of the missing editions, and pay double for each month requiring retroactive despatch.
Please note it is now possible to purchase all versions of subscription to the Official Journal L & C (paper, microfiche, off-line and CELEX) from any member of the EUR,-OP sales networks, except document delivery agents.
Please contact your sales agent for further details on the above.
Price ECU 'L + C' paper version η 700... •L + C' Recruitment microfiches notes (*) () 595... 30... OJ Supplement (Notices and public contracts) calendar year 1997 1...32 33...64 pages pages 6,50 13... More than 64 pages Price determined case by case BELGIUM/BELGIE Moniteur beige/Belgium Staatsblad Rue de Louvain 40...42/ Leuvenseweg 40... Β...1000 Bnjxelles/Bnisel Tél.
(522.12) 552 22 11 Fax (32.12) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B. 1060 Bruxelles/ Brussel Tél.
538.2) 538 51 69 Fax (32...2) 538 08 41 Ej. mail: jean. de. lannoy @ infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat.
295 26 39 Fax 32...2 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/ S Herstedvang 10. Wolf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 Ejuż mail: schultz@schultz.dk URL: www.schultz.dk GERMANY Bundesweister Verlag Street width 78. in 80 Postfach 10 05 34 D. 50667 Köln Tel.
(49 no later than 22 21) 20 29 278 GREEECE/Ε ΛΑΔΑ G.C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR w 105 64 Athens Tel.
(304.21) 33141 80/1/3 Fax (30...1) 323 98 21 Ej. mail: elebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνές Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR.105 64 Αβηνσ Τηλ.
323 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37 E... 28001 Madrid Tel.
(341.21) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (341.41) 575 39 98 Ej. mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: www.tsai.es/mprensa Bulletin Oficral del Estado Trafalgar, 27.229 E.228071 Madrid Tel.
488 34 92 Fax (343.3 487.76 59 FRANCE Journal officiel Service des publications des CE 26, rue Desaix F. 75727 Paris Cedex 15 Tél.
(33 no) 40 58 77 01 - 31 Fax 33 at 1 40 58 77 00 IRELAND Government Suppliers Agency Publications Section 4 at 5 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel.
(353 W.1) 661 31 11 Fax 353 W. 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/ 1 Casella postale 552 1 w. 50125 Firenze Tel.
64 54 15 Fax (39 no way) 64 12 57 Ej. mail: licosa@ftbcc. it URL: icl382. cilea.it/ Virtual_Library/ library/ wetrina/ licosa/ tt1. htm GRANDUCHÉ DE LUXEM BOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L. 2411 Luxembourg Tél.
(352) 40 10 20 Fax (352) 490 661 Ej. mail: mdl@pt.lu Subscription: Messages Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L. 2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags på Universitâtsbuchhandlung Gmbh Siedbrunnengasse 21 Postfach 1 A Wien Tel.
53 161 334/340 Fax (43...1) 53 161 339 E. j. e. mail: ausfuhr@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net: 81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional.jasa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ w 1050 Lisboa Codex Tel.
495 90 50/ 495 87 87 Fax (351.21) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlnen Kirjakauppa / Akademiaska Bokhandeln Pohjoissplanadi 39/ Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN.0011 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
121 41 Fax (358...) 121 44 35 Ej, mail: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractors 11 PO Box 200 S. 22100 Lund Tel.
(46 w46 w46) 18 00 00 Fax (46 w46 w46) 18 01 25 Ej. mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agence Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.
(44 w171) 873 9090 Fax (44 w 171) 873 8463 URL: www. tne tostationery. office. co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blondal Skólavördustig, 2 IS War 101 Reykjavik Tel.: ((354) 55 15 650 Fax (354) 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/ S Ostenioveien 18 Boxes 6512 Etterstad N wojna Oslo Tel.: +354 560 NORGE NIC Info A/ S Ostioveien 18 Boxes 6512 Etterstad N Wojnavik Tel.
(47.22) 97 45 00 Fax (47.22) 97 45 45 45 Schweiz/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH.8035 Zürich Tel.
365 53 15 Fax: (41...1) 365 54 11 Ejmail: urs.leimbacher® ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKA RE PUBLIKA NIS CR. jna Konviktskâ 5 in 1113 57Praha1 Tel.
24 22 94 33 Fax (42...2) 24 22 94... 33 E... mail: nkposp@dec.nis.cz' URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, Grivas Digenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY.1509 Nicosia Tel.
44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (3522.2) 361 044 E wi-fi: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hâz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H. 1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(36.1) 11 16 061/11 16 216 Fax (36.1) 302 50 35 EY mail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LOA 05 Malta Tel.
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polona Krakowskie Przemiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL. 00.950 Warszawa Tel.
(48 no2) 26 62 40 TURKIYE DUNYA Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad.
(90 no later than 21 working days) 251 91 96 (90 no later than 30 working days) 427 02 10 Fax (90.2412) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress. in Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel.
(1.0613) 741 73 33 Fax (1.0613) 741 54 39 Ej. mail: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/. wouf EGYPT The Middle E ast Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.
313-3) 3234 69 21 Fax (81.5.3) 3234 69 15 E jji-mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi.japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146 Sandten Tel.
(27 no 11) 883 37 37 Fax (27 w) 883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611. F Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax: (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) Ejjjmail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MEXICO Mundl in Mexico, SA de CV RioPânuco, 141 Delegación Cuauhtemoc ME.06500 México DF Tel.
(522.15) 553 56 58/27 Fax (52.15) 514 67 99 E y: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please address yourself to the sales office of your choice 95 (Libras) / 15 (Suscnpciones) 49 (Libras) / 14 (Suscripciones) Euromedia Str.
210 44 01/ 614 06 64 Fax (40.01. 311) 210 44 01/ 312 96 46 SLOVAKA Slovenska Technical Kniznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO.81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(42 no 7) 53 18 364 Fax (42 no 7) 53 18 364 Ej, mail: eurap@tbb1. sltk. stuba. sk SLOVENIA Economic Vestnik Zarozniska concentrated d. d.
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 Ej. mail: belick@gvestnik.si URL: www.gvestnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
(972.23) 546 14 23 Fax (972.23) 546 14 42 E wi-fi: rayil@netvision.net.il Subjust agent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 113131 Moscow Tel.: (2000/095) 135 52 27 Fax: 095) 135 52 27 S. AND SUBSCRIPION PRICES Annual subscription (include normal postage) Single copies (**) More information is available on the European Union via the INTERNET: http://europa.eu.int * <H> • OFFICE FOR OFFICAL PUBLIC PUBLICS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITES L.2985 LUXEM BOURG paper version 800.j. CD.ROM 600 Special mailing charges are invoiced separately.
The Office/Journal of the European Communities and all other European Communications public... actions on sale, whether periodic or otherwise, may be ordered at the sales offices listed below.
N.B.: The subscription to the Official Journal of the European Communities also includes the 'Directory of Community Legislation in Force and other Acts of the Community Institutions' (two editions per year). (*) Only joint subscription (including delivery) are available to the L (Legislation) and C (Information and Notices) series of the Official Journal of the European Communities. (**) The notices of open competition, which are published as annexes to the C series, are basically available free of charge from the Commission's offices in the Member States.
For regular delivery of all notices of competition on a subscription basis a charge is made to cover postage.
SALES AND SUBSCRIPTIONS BG.1000 Sofia Tel.
(352.22) 80 46 Fax (352.02) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR. 010000 Zagreb Tel.
43 03 92 Fax (381.1) 44 40 ROMANIA 59
C 309/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Annual Report of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2006 together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/11) CONTENTS OF THE INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 63 ENFORCEMENT OF CONDITIONS..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
7 63 Tables 1 to 4..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
64 Agency's replies...........................................................................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/63 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 [1].
The tasks of the Agency shall be to collect and disseminate information on national and Community priorities in the field of health and safety at work, to assist the relevant national and Community institutions in the formulation and implementation of relevant actions and to inform them of preparatory actions.
This declaration shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 [2]; it shall be based on an analysis of the Agency's accounts which the Court must push through under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 [3] were drawn up by its Director and forwarded to the Court, which explains how the annual accounts are lawful and whether they are legal and orderly.
6. The Court shall provide an appropriate basis for the following compliance information.
The Agency's accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2006 shall bear all relevant documents.
The following comment does not call into question the Court's explanation of compliance.
NOTE 7. In 2006, the Director signed 19 decisions on the amount of approximately EUR 880 000 to approve the appropriations from the article for the articles under the chapters.
Contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation [4], the Administrative Board has not received the necessary information.
The budgetary principle of the specialist was therefore not strictly respected.
F.R. Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER Principal (1) OJ L 335, 17.12.2002, p. 1.
(3) The annual accounts were adopted on 2 July 20074 June 2007.
(4) Article 23 of the Financial Regulation.
C 309/64 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community competence pursuant to the Treaty (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994, as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 of 24 June 2005) Management structure 1.The 2006 Administrative Board of the Agency (data 2005) Products and services in 2006 Social provisions Objectives Final budget: Connecting and networking: The Community and the Member States (...) aim to improve living and working conditions in order to adapt them to progress (...).
In order to ensure compliance with the Treaty and subsequent action programmes for health and safety at work, in particular to improve the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on national and Community priorities and research; composition: EUR 14,1 million (EUR 13,7 million) In order to achieve the objectives set out in Article 136, the Community shall support and strengthen the capacity of the Member States to: (a) improve the working environment in order to protect the health and safety of workers; (b) improve working conditions (...) in order to protect the safety and health of workers, the Agency shall aim to provide Community institutions, Member States, social partners and stakeholders with all relevant technical, scientific and economic information relating to the safety and health of workers at work.
Promoting cooperation and exchange of information, including information on training programmes; one representative of workers' organisations from each Member State; dissemination of information: (excl. Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) Providing information on the formulation and implementation of effective policies for the Community institutions and Member States, in particular with regard to impact on SMEs; two, management as at 31 December 2006: Third generation information services on safety and health at work provided by the Internet. Source: Agency data.
...to provide information on implementing measures;......a different representative of each group and of the Commission.
26 (20) Other posts (assistance, seconded national experts, national staff) do not... participate in the development of strategies and possible joint action programmes; monitor the preparation and implementation of decisions of the Management Board.
4. Table 1 Committee European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) One representative of the government from each Member State, including: Strengthening the tripartite structure in the Agency's networks;... one representative of employers from each Member State;... Community assistance, DG Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: 93.5 % (96%); • Creating institutional capitals in applicant countries (Phare programmes).
Miscellaneous revenue: 2% (in %) composition 40 (40) of the posts provided for in the establishment plan, DNI President and 3 Vice-Presidents of the Management Board, including 33 (32), knowledge development: DNI one coordinator per group, of which 7 (8).
In 2006 and 2007, within the framework of the European Labour Week 2006 (for young workers) and 2007 (MSE); the task of information material on workers, health and safety at work (OSH) and economic performance in the HORECA sector; 3. The Director, on a proposal from the Commission, the Management Board is responsible for operational activities:... risk monitoring information material, including reports on research priorities in the field of OSH, biological materials and ultraviolet ionising radiation; collection of data on stress, poisoning and skin problems, and musculoskeletal diseases in young workers in the framework of the European Weeks 2006 and 2007, feasibility study of entrepreneurship research.
42 (35), wiqkszo (administrative services: compulsory consultation of the Commission and the Advisory Committee on Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work on the work programme.
5. External audit of the Court of Auditors.
6. The European Parliament shall, on the recommendation of the Council, grant discharge.
In the case of operating expenditure 3 640 At the beginning of 1 in United Nations C 309/65 Origin of revenue Revenue generated Allocation of expenditure Community 13 200.g. 11 900.j Title I Staff Title II Operational expenditure Title III Operational expenditure 4 556 1 524 7 367 4 080 1 481 7 025 3 831 1 083 5 060 125 75 28 47 Miscellaneous revenue 381 61bied gd for a defined purpose Revenue (1) 518 407 324 194rzeworzerowy (1) 5 5 407 419, 0 per 31 December 2004, 0 per 31 965 12 460 Total 13 965 12 993 10 298 2 663 1 005 2 825 2 155 670 Revenue from the Community Other administrative expenditure 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 in the amount of 5 5 in the amount of 5 5 in the amount of 5 5 in the amount of 5 5 5 5 5 in the order of 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 of arzerzerzerzerzerzerzerze for 0 at 31 December 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 40 at 31 December 2004 at 31 December 2004 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5 of 5
Here is the correct amount of EUR 518 000 to get a real picture.
In 2006, the Agency's data were presented in a summary table of data (b) for operational losses (c = a. b) for the risks and liabilities of the accounts 63 1 981 2 044 58 2 448 2 507 for financial expenditure (d) for net non-operational losses (e = d) for the economic performance of the financial year (f = c + e) for the sum of net and net commitments for the financial year 1 820. 90 1 730 3 774 1 637 183 1 820 4 327 (1) for the correction of the negative amount of f In 2005, the net and total liabilities for the financial year 2006 (a) (EUR 1 000) for the financial year 2005 (EUR 1 000) for Table 2 for the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) for the financial year 2006.
The revenue and payments collected shall be determined in accordance with the spot accounting method.
Table 3 Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao)
C 309/66 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 1.
Since July 2007, the Management Board shall be informed by all members of the Management Board of the Agency's financial resources.
C 311/50 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Annual Report of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/08) CONTENTS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ENFORCEMENT OF CONDITIONS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Tables 1 to 4..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
52 Agency's replies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/51 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 [1].
The Agency's tasks are to collect and disseminate information on national and Community priorities in the field of health and safety at work, to support relevant national and Community institutions in the formulation and implementation of relevant actions and to inform them of preparatory actions.
This information is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 [2]; it concerns the verification of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 [3] were drawn up by its Director and forwarded to the Court, which explains how the annual accounts are lawful and whether they are legal and orderly.
5. The Court has carried out its work in accordance with international standards for the highest audit of accounts (ISSAI) and international professional bases (IFAC)[14], provided that they are applied in the Community context.
6. The Court shall provide the appropriate basis for the following information on compliance: the chiefity of the accounts of the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be justified in all material respects.
Let's get going, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 24 June 2008 and received by the Court on 26 June 2008.
(4) ISSAI is the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC is the International Federation of Accountants (International Federation of Economic Entrepreneurs).
C 311/52 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Community competence pursuant to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Governance structure 1. The 2007 Administrative Council for. Measures (data for 2006) Products and services in 2007. Social provisions Objectives Final budget: Creating links and networks: The Community and the Member States (...) aim to improve living and working conditions so that they can be brought closer by progress (...).
In order to achieve the objectives set out in Article 136, the Community shall promote and promote the capacity of the Member States in the following areas: (a) improving the working environment in order to protect the health and safety of workers; (b) working conditions;
representatives (the results of Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) in the field of health and safety at work.
Task 25 (26) Other positions (auxiliary staff, contract staff, seconded national experts and workers at the workplace) will improve the working environment in order to improve the safety and health of workers and then connect with the employer's representative from each Member State; 93.8 % of the Community grant, the Authority's Institutional Development DG Capitacy and potential candidates (Phare and CARDS programmes). The Agency shall pursue the objective of providing Community institutions, Member States, social partners and interested parties with all relevant technical, scientific and economic information on the three representatives of the Commission.
Total human resources: 63 (59), including operational activities: 47 (42) Administrative matters: 9 (9) Other matters: 7 (8) Monitoring and evaluation: 2005 evaluation report on the ăSchluss campaign from L.A.M.
President and 3 Vice-President of the Governing Board; composition of information material for national campaigns and campaigns under the European Week 2007 (muscle and skeleton disease) and 2008 (risk assessment); Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) • Community Aid Programme, DG Health and Safety at Work from each of the three stakeholders; including Community Aid Programme, DG Safety and Health at Work and to integrate health and safety at work into the education and cleaning system; Vice-President of each group and Commission. Vice-President of the Council for Safety and Health at Work.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/53 Source: Data from the Agency. Community competence under the Treaty Resources of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Structure for the management of appropriations transferred to the Agency for 2007 (data for 2006) Products and services in 2007. Task? Overall improvement of quality and fluidity of information on good practical solutions on the Agency's website and on the Thezaurus website.
4. The Committee on the Work Programme and the budget.
5. External audit of the Court of Auditors.
6. The European Parliament shall, on the recommendation of the Council, grant discharge.
C 311/54 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure allocated to Community expenditure Assigned revenue 14 000 430 13 000 443 Title I Staff 4 797 1 623 8 010 4 292 1 443 7 880 3 996 1 087 4 972 160 641 184 125 79 47 Assigned revenue 498 430 Assigned revenue 498 391 422 68 194 0 Total 14 928 13 873 Total 14 928 14 006 10 202 3 702 1 023 2 663 2 312 351 Assigned revenue For the financial year 498 430 Assigned revenue For the financial year 498 391 486 247 68 194 0 Title II Administration 381 369 11 Title III Operational expenditure 2 908 1963 1 670 293 Table 2 The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 2 663 2 312 322 351 Assigned revenue Assigned revenue For the financial year 2007 For the financial year 2007 The financial year 2007 comes from the agencies concerned.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) for economic results for the financial years 2007 and 2006 C 311/55 Operating aid for households Other operating expenditure Other administrative expenditure Total administrative expenditure Other operating expenditure Total expenditure (a) 2007 12 682 3 3 505 3 661 137 1 991 7 327 13 011 494.3 3 491 (1 000 EUR) 2006 11 730 238 1 580 13 548 3 640 139 1 825 8 028 13 632 (e) 84.6 total (b) 6 Sep 90 / (b) ribbon) from operational activities (c = a. b) financial payments (d) b) veto (d) veto (d) veto) veto (e) veto (e) veto = d) Annual result + f).
Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao).4 1 730 1 820.90 1 730 Fixed assets 44 Fixed assets 261 Long-term current claims Short-term pre-financing Short-term claims Cash and cash Detention of short-term liabilities Current liabilities Liabilities Risks and liabilities related to settlement liabilities Accounting liabilities Reserves Cumulated equity/loss Economic result year-to-year total liabilitiesTotal liabilitiesNet liabilitiesTotal Net liabilitiesNet liabilitiesRevision 330 38 4.2 4 945 70 2 654 2 724 2 Implementation 1 730 491 2gSource: Agency data.
C 311/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 1. The Agency shall take note of the Court's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union IV (Information) INFORMATION INSTITUTIONS AND OTHER AUTHORITIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION COURT OF AUDITORS Annual activity report of the EU agency for the financial year 2017 (2018/C 434/01) CONTENTS C 434/1 DE Listerresolution...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
DE C 434/2 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 LIST OF THE KINGDOM The list of Member States shall remove the Union agencies and other bodies covered by this report.
More information about the European Agency for Safety and Youth, Pac.................................................co-operation with the energy administration....................a European body...an electronic administration...auvisual and culture....a aviation safety agency... small and medium-sized enterprises...European and medium-sized enterprises.
More information on cooperation between the European Environment Agency in the framework of the European Agency for Security and Market in the field of activities of the European Union in the area of freedom, security and market surveillance in Europe, security and justice European Agency for Security and Security of Securities and Market in the area of Freedom, Security and Justice European Agency for Safety and Health at Work Euratom, European Agency for Safety and Health Protection in the Euratom Agency, European Agency for Safety and Health with a view to improving living and working conditions European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, European Agency for the Safety and Safety of the Euratom Agency for the Safety and Safety of the Euratom Agency for the European Union, European Agency for the Safety and Energy Union,
DE C 434/4 Official Journal of the European Union CHAPTER 1 EU Agencies and Court's audit INTRODUCTION OF EMPLOYMENT...........................................................................................................................................................
The decentralised agencies deal with the specific policy needs of the Commission's executive agencies under EU programmes..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
DEFINATION STRUCTURE...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
30.11.2018 Page 1.1-1.3 5 1.4-1.21 5 1.4-1.14 5 1.8-1.9 7 1.10 8 1.11-1.14 8 1.15.20 8 1.21 13 1.22-1.32 13 1.22-1.24 13 1.25-1.32 13
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/5 INTRODUCTION 1.1.
In accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (1), the European Court of Auditors is an external EU funding officer.
In this respect, the Court acts as an independent financial actor for Union citizens, in particular by supporting the improvement of EU financial management.
More detailed information on the Court's work can be found in its annual activity reports and annual implementation reports of the EU budget, as well as in the special reports, Landscape analyses and opinions on new or revised EU legislation or other measures affecting financial management (2).
Within the framework of its mandate, the Court shall be responsible for the annual accounts and presentations of all the institutions, agencies and other bodies of the Union on which they are based (3).
This report shall contain the results to which the Court has achieved during the preparation of the EU agencies and other Union bodies (hereinafter referred to as "the agencies') during the financial year 2017.
The report is divided into the following categories: not only by agencies but also by the way in which the Court is responsible.
EU AGENCIES Various types of agencies contribute to the formulation and implementation of EU policies in 1.4.
Agencies are separate bodies of their own legal nature which have been established under a secondary act to carry out specific technical and scientific or administrative tasks which help to shape and implement policies of the EU institutions.
Many agencies are clearly visible and have a significant impact on important areas that are important for the daily life of European citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice.
Chapter 3 provides a brief description of the tasks performed by each agency.
This report shall use the relevant agencies that may be listed at the beginning of this report.
There are three types of agencies: decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other bodies.
Their main features are described below.
The number of agencies increased over the years and amounted to 41 agencies in 2017, as shown in Figure 1.1.
(1) Articles 285 to 287 (OJ C 326, 26.10.2012, p. 169-171).
(2) Available on the Court's website: www.eca.europa.eu (3) Three agencies in the field of defence (European Defence Agency, European Union Institute for Security Studies and the European Union Satellite Centre) financed by Member States are not audited by the Court but by other independent external bodies.
DE C 434/6 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.1 The increase in the number of agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Commission's executive agencies shall have their seat, as shall the Commission, in Brussels or Luxembourg.
The decentralised agencies and other bodies are located across the EU and are deployed in 23 different Member States, as shown by the Baltic States' list and illustration 1.2.
The seat of the Agency shall be the Council or jointly the Council and the European Parliament.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/7 Illustration 1.2 The seat of the agencies in the Member States Source: European Court of Auditors.
The decentralised agencies address specific policy needs 1.8.
32 decentralised agencies (4) play an important role in the preparation and implementation of EU policies, in particular on technical, scientific, operational and/or regulatory tasks.
This is primarily about meeting specific policy needs and strengthening European cooperation through the use of the expertise and expertise of the EU and national governments.
The decentralised agencies have been set up for an indefinite period by a Regulation of the Council or of the European Parliament and of the Council.
The decentralised agencies shall operate under the control of the Management Board, which shall consist of representatives of the Member States, the Commission and certain agencies, including other parties.
The Administrative Board shall define the operational framework to be followed by the agencies, such as the multiannual and annual work programme, budgets and positions to be carried out under the responsibility of the relevant executive directors/directors.
Each decentralised agency shall be subject to a separate discharge procedure in respect of the implementation of the budget, which shall include personnel, administrative and operational expenditure. In most cases, discharge shall be given to the European Parliament and the Council (5).
(4) Cedefop, Eurofound, EEA, ETF, EMA, EMCDDA, CdT, CPVO, EUIPO, EU-OSHA, FRA, EASA, EFSA, EMSA, Eurojust, ECDC, ENISA, ERA, Frontex, GSA, EPA, EFCA, ECHA, EIGE, ACER, B not only BEREC, Europol, EASO, EBA, EIOPA, ESMA and eu-LISA.
5. Two self-financing agencies (CPVO and EUIPO) are subject to the discharge procedure by their Management Board.
DE C 434/8 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Commission executive agencies for EU programmes by 1.10.
Six Commission executive agencies ((6) have been entrusted with implementing and operational tasks related to one or more Union programmes and their duration is limited in time.
They have been established by a Commission decision and operate under the supervision of a steering committee set up by the Commission.
Their work shall be based on multiannual and annual work programmes prepared and implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director.
They are subject to individual discharge procedures by the European Parliament and the Council in respect of their own budgets.
Unlike decentralised agencies, their budgets cover only staff and administration expenditure, while all the operational expenditure they bear comes from the Commission's budget and therefore forms part of the overall discharge granted to the Commission.
Therefore, the budget of the executive agencies corresponds only to a very small part of the budget that actually extended.
Other institutions have specific tasks 1.11.
The other three entities are the EIT, the Euratom Supply Agency and the SRB.
The EIT in Budapest is an independent, decentralised EU institution which uses scientific, economic and educational resources to strengthen the Union's innovation by providing financial support.
The Institute was established by the European Parliament and the Council for an indefinite period.
It shall be managed by the Director and supervised by the Management Board and shall be subject to a separate discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Euratom Supply Agency in Luxembourg has been established by the Council for an indefinite period to support the objectives of the Treaty on the establishment of the European Atomic Energy Community.
It shall be subject to the discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Advisory Committee of Member States shall assist the Euratom Supply Agency in carrying out its tasks by issuing opinions and providing analyses and information.
The Director-General of the Euratom Supply Agency shall act under the supervision of the Commission.
SRB is a central resolution unit in the Banking Union and is based in Br.ssel.
The SRB's task is to organise the liquidation of banks threatened with bankruptcy, which has as little impact on the real economy as possible, the financial system and public finances of the participating Member States and goes beyond this.
The SRB shall be represented by its President, who shall also act as contract staff.
The Chairperson of the SRB shall be subject to a separate discharge procedure by the Committee, which shall appoint members of the national resolution authorities of the participating Member States.
The agencies are financed from different sources and under different actions of the MFF 1.15.
The total budget of all agencies (except SRB) in 2017 amounted to EUR 3.5 billion (2016: EUR 3.4 billion), representing around 2.7% of the total EU budget for 2017 (2016: 2.4 %), as illustrated in Figure 1.3.
The agencies which increased to the greatest extent in 2017 were the GSA and the EIT, financed under sub-heading 1a of the MFF (7) (competitiveness for growth and jobs), as well as Frontex, EMA and EASO, financed under heading 3 of the MFF (security and citizenship).
To this end, the SRB budget in 2017 amounts to EUR 6.6 billion (2016: EUR 11.8 billion) (8).
It shall consist of advisers paid by credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund.
(6) INEA, REA, EACEA, ERCEA, Chafea and EASME.
(7) The EU Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020.
(8) The 2016 budget consisted not only of contributions by credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund for 2016, but also of contributions for 2015, collected by the National Resolution Groups in 2015, but only transferred to the Fund in January 2016.
The general budget for 2017 is therefore much lower than the 2016 budget (EUR 6.6 billion against EUR 11.8 billion).
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/9 1.17.
The budgets of decentralised agencies and other bodies cover personnel, administrative and operational expenditure, while the executive agencies implement programmes financed by the Commission budget and their own budgets (a total of around EUR 241 million) cover only staff and administration expenditure.
The Commission's operational expenditure incurred by six executive agencies amounted to around EUR 6.8 billion in 2017, representing more than twice the total budget of all other agencies, without the SRB.
Figure 1.3 Sources of funding for the Agency in 2017 Source: EU budget for 2017 and agency budget for 2017, data collected by the European Court of Auditors.
Most agencies, including executive agencies, are almost entirely financed by the EU budget.
The other agencies are financed in full or in part by fees and fees, as well as direct contributions from participating countries such as Member States, EFTA States, etc. The total EU budget was EUR 2.5 billion, plus EUR 1 billion from fees and fees and direct contributions from participating countries.
Figure 1.4 shows a reduction in the number of agencies depending on the amount of contributions received from the EU budget.
DE C 434/10 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.4 Agencies according to the size of the contribution from the EU budget Source: Agencies, data collected by the European Court of Auditors.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/11 1.19.
EUR 2.5 billion from the EU budget will be financed under various MFF actions, as illustrated in Figure 1.5.
Figure 1.5 Funding of the agencies under the MFF principles of the EU general budget Source: The EU Multi-annual Financial Framework 2014-2020 and the Agencies' 2017 budgets, collected by the European Court of Auditors.
As regards staff, the agencies had around 11 000 employees [9] at the end of 2017 (2016: 10 300), representing around one sixth of the total staff employed by EU institutions and agencies.
Figure 1.6 can be drawn from a reduction in the number of employees in individual agencies.
9. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
EN C 434/12 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.6 Human resources broken down by agency at the end of 2017. Source: Agencies, data collected by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/13 The network of EU agencies facilitates cooperation and communication with stakeholders 1.21.
The EU agency network (EUAN) was set up by the agencies as a cooperation forum supporting the agency in order to increase the visibility of the agencies, identify and improve their effectiveness and create added value.
EUAN shall act on the basis of the priorities set by the Agencies in the five-year strategic programme 2015-2020 and the annual work programmes setting out the opportunities and expected results.
The important role played by EUAN is to ensure effective communication between EU agencies and stakeholders.
THE COURT'S WITNESS requires the Court to examine the annual accounts and forecasts of the Agency 1.22.
In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court (a) analysed the annual accounts of all the agencies, including the annual accounts[10] and the implementation reports [11], for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
On the basis of the results of its evaluation, the Court shall provide the European Parliament and the Council or the other discharge authorities referred to in Chapter 3 of this report with information on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assumptions.
In accordance with Article 208 (4) of the EU Financial Regulation [12], the annual accounts of 32 agencies receiving financial assistance from the EU budget have been drawn up by independent external experts.
The Court examined how the results of this analysis were worth assessing and took into account international auditing and verification standards when drawing up its own opinions.
The Court considers that the identified risk is 1.25.
In order to achieve sufficient security, the Court has designed its activities in such a way as to take account of the main risks identified.
In general, the Court considers that the risks associated with the surplus accounts for all agencies are low; the Agency's invoicing is determined in accordance with the accounting principles adopted by the Commission, based on the international accounting bases for the public sector.
The number of significant errors detected in the past was small.
Title I - Expenditure on staff 1.28.
The management by the PMO (offices for the identification and management of individual Commission proposals) is subject to review by the Court in its detailed evaluation of administrative expenditure.
There have been no significant errors in staff expenditure in recent years.
However, if agencies have to employ additional staff with a significant number of employees in the short term, there is an average or high risk of legality and regularity of recruitment procedures.
(10) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(11) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as reports on the implementation of the budget.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
DE C 434/14 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Title II (administrative expenditure) 1.29.
Contracts for different services (with an increase in the number of employees in the IT sector) include complex public procurement rules and procedures, and agency administration sometimes does not provide satisfactory transparency and does not provide the best service quality.
Serious errors in the award of contracts affecting payment conditions have been regularly one of the main errors in the award of public contracts, as well as the Court's strengthened opinions and observations.
Title III (operational expenditure) 1.30.
There is a small or high risk.
This depends on the type and type of operational expenditure of the agency concerned.
Overall, the risks associated with the award of contracts are comparable to those associated with Title II, but stakeholders may be more likely to be exposed to risks.
As regards grants paid under Title III of the budget, the previous recommendations concluded that, despite the overall improvement, agency controls were not always fully effective.
There is an average risk associated with the cost-effectiveness of the budget, which has been established mainly in the field of IT and public procurement.
The Court has already set out its findings on the different IT countries in agencies, weaknesses in the management of IT projects and procurement procedures which have not ensured the best quality and quality.
Overall, a large number of small agencies (see illustrations 1.4 and 1.6) equipped with their own administrative structures and procedures poses a risk of administrative efficiency.
RESULTS OF THE ANNUAL PRACTICES IN 2017 POSTICAL.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Incompatible opinions on the reliability of the accounts for all agencies....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
In order to highlight the facts, it is essential to understand the annual accounts..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Court's observations cover a number of issues..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Special ReportHofes.berdenSRB................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
DE C 434/16 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 INTRODUCTION 2.1.
This Chapter provides an overview of the results of the annual work of the Agencies carried out by the Court in 2017 and further preparatory work on the Agencies carried out by the Court in 2017.
THE RESULTS OF THE ANNUAL ACTS OF THE AGENCY IN 2017 TO TOTAL POSITION 2.3.
In general, for the Agency's annual accounts, the Court's accounts are the best in the year ending 31 December 2017 and the revenue and payments underlying those annual accounts constitute positive results from previous years.
The Court issued inconsistent opinions on the annual accounts of all the agencies.
In accordance with its assessment of the Agency's annual accounts as at 31 December 2017, as well as the results of their forecasts and cash flows f in the year ending that date, they shall comply with their respective financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer [13] on all relevant issues.
In order to highlight the facts, it is essential to understand the annual accounts 2.5.
As regards EASO, the Court pointed out that staff situation B had not deteriorated significantly.
B there are currently no administrative surrenders to fill many job vacancies.
Overall, at the current level, the human resources situation has deteriorated significantly.
In the case of the SRB, the Court stressed that the contributions to the Single Resolution Fund are calculated on the basis of information provided by credit institutions to the Committee with regard to the national resolution authorities.
However, the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure consistency of this information.
The Court also found that the method of calculating the contributions laid down in the legislation is very complicated, which involves a risk of accuracy.
For reasons of confidentiality, the Committee cannot disclose the data of credit institutions used to calculate fund information, which reduces transparency.
As regards ECHA, the Court stressed that the Agency is partly financed by own resources and that it uses the services of any company applying for the registration of chemicals under REACH[14].
The Agency shall calculate and report on the basis of information provided by undertakings at the time of the application.
The Agency's ex post studies have shown that major corrections are necessary, the total amount of which was not known at the end of 2017.
This statement points to restrictions on the system based to too much on the self-assessment of applicants.
As regards the GSA, the Court pointed out that one of the tenderers contested the outcome of the tendering procedure in favour of one of the most important publications of the Agency (a framework agreement worth EUR 1,5 billion).
As regards the two London agencies (EMA and Authority), the Court indicated that they would leave the United Kingdom in 2019 and that their annual accounts, together with the relevant calculations, were drawn up on the basis of the information available at the time of their signature.
In addition, the Court pointed out the effects of rental contracts currently in force in London and the potential reduction in revenue resulting from the UK's resignation from the EU.
Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (OJ L 353, 31.12.2008, p. 1).
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/17 Incomplete decisions on the legality and regularity of income underlying the annual accounts of all agencies 2.12.
For all agencies, the Court issued inconsistent rulings on the legality and regularity of the annual accounts for the base year ending 31 December 2017.
According to the Court's assessment, revenue was reasonable and correct in all material respects.
Incoherent decisions on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the Agency's annual accounts (except EASO) 2.13.
In 40 agencies, the Court issued inconsistent rulings on the legality and regularity of the annual accounts for the base year ending 31 December 2017.
According to the Court's assessment, payments were justified and correct in all material respects.
Since the rules are systematic, the internal control system seems unacceptable.
The cumulative error resulting from irregular payments shall mean at least EUR 7,7 million or 10,3% of the total payments made by B unlawfully in 2017.
On other points, paragraphs 2 to 15 address specific issues.
The paragraphs relating to other issues aim to draw the reader's attention to important issues which are neither presented nor indicated in the accounts nor concern the legality and regularity of revenue and payments.
In response to the opinion of the EIT, the Court concluded that, at the end of the transitional period, the initial refunds for the Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) were increased.
In addition, two KICs have included several new opportunities by tomorrow.
For one KIC, this led to a significant change in the initial grant decision.
Significant changes may affect the equal treatment of KICs and do not comply with the Financial Regulation.
In the case of Frontex, the Court has stated on several occasions since 2014 that the cooperating countries will often not provide sufficient evidence that the expenditure has been declared by them.
This has been maximised by the results of the preparatory work.
In response to the Court's 2016 recommendation, Frontex is currently introducing a simplified cost recovery model.
With regard to EBA, EIOPA and ESMA, the Court has indicated that its budgets are partly financed by the European Union and partly by direct contributions from supervisory authorities or supervised bodies of EU Member States.
Once the United Kingdom has decided to leave the EU, the income of residents may decrease in the future.
As regards the GSA, the Court reported that the Agency operates both at the Galileo Security Headquarters (GSMC) and at Galileo ground stations in the United Kingdom, which should be relocated.
As regards CdT, the Court pointed out that several agencies were increasingly benefiting from internal or other alternative translations, which meant that the Centre's Capazitite was not used to the maximum.
Moreover, there is a double cost at European level for the development of translation systems and current costs.
In December 2016, the Council of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (CdT) commissioned the CdT to translate four calls for expressions of interest in order to draw up a reserve list, although all the posts approved by the Budget Office were filled in the Centre's establishment plan.
The Court considered that the translation contract awarded in December 2016 was not justified.
Payments made under this mandate in M under 2017 amounted to 2,5% of the 2017 budget.
EN C 434/18 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.1 Important opinions issued in 2014-2017 on the Agency's annual accounts and accounts Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Court's observations cover a number of subjects 2.22.
The Court made a total of 145 comments on 37 agencies in order to highlight important issues and identify areas for improvement.
The comments set out in Chapter 3 are summarised below.
The risks to EASO 2.23 are serious.
In the case of EASO, the Court drew attention to the serious risks related to the nature of its activities and to the external challenges posed by the migration crisis.
These risks have not been addressed by a sound governance structure and effective controls, leading to a number of significant infringements.
Since 2014, B has been unable to maintain large staff fluctuations and recruitment procedures were suspended in December 2017.
In addition, no internal audit body or legal service has been set up in B and the legal documents are not regularly updated.
Almost all the services in question, based on public procurement or recruitment procedures, have been systematically disrupted by significant burdens related to the identification of the needs of the disabled B, the preparation of specifications, the choice of the type of contract, the evaluation and award procedures, changes and losses with Vertragen, the display of costs and services, and the verification of the services provided, etc.
They are contrary to the principles of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/19 Progress towards a more harmonised IT country 2.26.
The Agency's operational capacity is widespread and requires appropriate, sometimes tailored IT solutions.
However, based on the same legal framework, centralised operational and administrative activities are being carried out, suggesting that their procedures may vary and that appropriate IT resources may be used to support these procedures.
While the agencies have made very good progress in implementing budgetary and accounting systems, the Court continued to use a number of IT tools in its 2016 synthesis report on the Agency's performance, in other key areas such as human resources management and procurement management.
Agencies shall endeavour to further harmonise information systems in these areas, in particular with a view to increasing cost efficiency, reducing internal control risks and strengthening IT management.
In 2017, much progress was made in human resources management when 20 agencies concluded agreements with the Commission on the use of the SYSPER II tool, which will contribute to the creation of a more unified IT country in this area.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
In this fragmented IT country, the use of similar electronic tools for supply and service contracts (e-procurement) would also represent an important step towards a more harmonised IT framework among the agencies.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation, which entered into force in 2012 and 2013, all EU institutions and agencies shall establish and implement a common field of electronic data exchange for applicants, candidates and tenderers to the extent that they relate to the submission, storage and processing of data transmitted under grant and public procurement procedures.
While the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation do not set a deadline for the introduction of electronic public procurement, the 2014 EU Public Procurement Directive[17] provides for the use of electronic public procurement in EU Member States by 2018 and the EU Electronic Invoice Directive[18], adopted in 2014, should allow public authorities to receive electronic invoices by 2019.
(15) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 1).
Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJ L 1, 3.1.2014, p. 1).
DE C 434/20 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2.29.
All agencies publish their invitations to tender electronically by TED (Tenders Electronic Daily), the online version of the Official Journal of the European Union for public procurement. In addition, the Commission has launched electronic invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the European Union (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). Most agencies have introduced electronic invoicing and electronic invitation to tender by the end of 2017.
Improve IT consulting and project management within EMA and eu-LISA in IT consulting and project management within EMA 2.30.
During the preparatory work carried out in the previous year, the Court examined how the Agency manages advisory services.
Using consulting companies has led to critical dependence on external expertise.
The Court also stated that the control over the development and implementation of projects was insufficient and that there were serious distortions and increases in costs for projects.
During 2017, the Agency has taken a number of steps to improve the situation.
However, it will take time to reduce the agency's critical dependence on consulting companies, and the impact of the actions will only be visible over the years.
IT consulting and project management services within the framework of eu-LISA 2.32.
The Agency shall benefit mainly from advisory services related to IT projects by its nature.
In 2017, the Agency's IT projects were implemented within the framework of the financial and time framework.
The Agency shall use the outsourcing model to develop and implement IT projects, in which approximately 90% of the work related to these projects is carried out by three contractors.
Although IT projects are owned and controlled by the Agency, the model in which development tasks are outsourced to such an extent by such sensitive IT systems carries the risk of obtaining agreement from contractors.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/21 2.34.
At the same time, a small number of staff employed in operating branches poses a risk to Continuation of work.
The aim of public procurement is to ensure competition between economic operators and to ensure the most economically advantageous purchase, while maintaining transparency, objectivity and coherence on the basis of the existing legal framework.
The Court found that 14 agencies (B.ro BEREC, EPA, Chafea, eu-LISA, EASO, EBA, EEA, EFSA, EIGE, EUIPO, ERA, EASA, FRA and SRB) have restrictions on public procurement, mainly with regard to services that pose a risk to the optimal use of funds.
Among the most identified factors: imbalance between price and quality aspects in relation to award criteria, sub-optimal structure of framework contracts, use of framework contracts enabling service contracts whose description and/or price were not sufficiently precise and the use of indirect services.
Most of the agencies examined the effects of Brexit 2.36. On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to leave the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, agencies (ACER, B.4ro BEREC, EPA, ENISA and EU-OSHA) have not carried out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on their organisation, application and invoicing.
Employment notices may be published on the EPSO website.
Most agencies (ACER, Cedefop, EPA, Chafea, EASA, EBA, ECHA, EEA, EIGE, EIOPA, EIT, EMA, EMCDDA, EMSA, ENISA, ESMA, eu-LISA, Eurojust, Europol, Frontex, GSA and SRB) publish posts on their websites and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The publication on the EPSO website would ensure transparency and transparency and enable citizens to read employment notices in all European institutions and bodies.
The main reason why the agencies call on EPSO to publish employment notices in all EU official languages, which entails high translation costs.
Less comments on the legality and regularity of payments 2.38.
The number of comments on the legality and regularity of payments has increased to eight (2016: 11), indicating the Agency's continuing efforts to comply with the legal framework, in particular the provisions of the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation and the Staff Regulations.
In recent comments on the procurement agreements (EASO, EASA, EIGE and Frontex), three concerned recruitment procedures (EASO, Cedefop and Frontex).
The budget has improved 2.39.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, the budget allocated for a given year may be carried over to the following financial year, subject to certain conditions (19).
Although the Financial Regulation does not set ceilings for such measures, due to the multi-annual nature of the actions, the benefits of the implementation of work programmes or public procurement may be largely justified and may be contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
Figure 2.4 shows that many of the Court's agencies recorded high revenues in 2017 and previous years.
In 2017, only two agencies (Chafea and EU-OSHA) should strive to make better and more transparent use of the Agency's performance, but also to change the Court's approach to reporting in 2017.
(19) The financial conditions are laid down in Article 13 of the Financial Regulation.
EN C 434/22 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.4 Less comments on revenue or high resources Source: European Court of Auditors on the basis of information provided by the agencies.
The Court also found that the two agencies (Frontex and EUIPO) of previous years had cancelled budgetary appropriations.
This pointed to an excessive level of funding, especially from the public administrations of the Member States and other cooperating countries.
The accounting system of 2.42 could still be improved.
During this work, the Court also examined the Agency's accounting principles, which play an important role in drawing up annual accounts.
In line with the provisions of the Financial Regulation, each agency has its own account, which means that a total of 37 accounts are responsible for 2 % of the EU budget.
The most important tasks of the accounting officer are payments, receipt of income and recovery, drawing up and presenting financial statements and invoicing, determining and approving invoicing systems and erasing.
In 2012, in order to increase efficiency, the Commission's accounting officer asked all agencies to delegate the clearing function on the basis of a contract.
The first agency to adopt this proposal was CEPOL in 2014.
Only three other agencies (GSA, B not only BEREC and ACER) joined this programme by the end of 2017.
The hierarchic position of the Agency's accounting officer may affect its independence.
In particular, the accounts must be independent of the persons (subjects) empowered to make commitments, to take legal commitments and to make payments.
This comment concerns a total of 13 agencies (CdT, EACEA, EASA, EASME, EEA, EFSA, EIOPA, EMA, EMCDDA, ERA, EU-OSHA, Eurofound and FRA).
The appointment and jurisdiction of the auditor shall also fall within the competence of the Management Board.
In accordance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation, clearing agents must be satisfied that the agency's invoicing systems are too effective (approval).
While the validation of invoicing systems in most agencies is up-to-date, the Court concluded that the invoicing systems of the seven agencies (ACER, B not only BEREC, EPA, EASME, EIT, EMA and GSA) require a wide-ranging revision in order to be rapid.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/23 Illustration 2.5 The state of the agency's accounts and the re-approval of invoicing systems Source: European Court of Auditors on the basis of information provided by the agencies.
Three agencies (EASO, CPVO and REA) have not documented procurement, grant and recruitment procedures.
Three agencies (ACER, EIT and Frontex) have identified internal control during the implementation of the emergency standard.
These may be very risky to maintain their activities as data may be irreversibly lost.
The agencies continue to monitor the findings of previous years 2.47.
Where appropriate, the Court has reported progress on the Agency's actions in response to previous years.
Figure 2.6 shows that corrective actions related to 170 comments that have not yet been implemented at the end of 2016 have been completed or in most cases are in progress.
Of the 13 outstanding comments, the corrective actions required for the three comments were not subject to scrutiny by the Agency.
EN C 434/24 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.6 The Agency's activities to monitor comments from previous years: the European Court of Auditors.
The Court provides OLAF with 2.48 information on fraud.
OLAF is then required to investigate and follow these issues, where appropriate in cooperation with national judicial authorities.
In 2017, as part of the work on 1000 applications and 150 procurement procedures for requests for information on the Agency, the Court found three cases of fraud which it had reported to OLAF.
The Court shall provide information on the reports of the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) and the external evaluation reports 2.49.
For information purposes, the Court also referred to the IAS review reports and the external evaluation reports drawn up on behalf of the Commission.
In 2017, 26 IAS reports were drawn up and in nine cases an external evaluation of the Agency was carried out.
The Court has not examined the relevant evaluation or evaluation procedures.
The Court carried out a quick analysis to implement the employment reduction of 5 % 2.50.
In 2017, the Court carried out a rapid analysis (20) on how the European Union institutions and agencies implemented the commitment to reduce the number of employees provided for in their positions in 2013-2017 (for agencies 2014-2018).
The Court concluded that the agencies implemented a 5% reduction in staff, although with some delays.
While decentralised agencies with traditional tasks have managed to reduce their resources by 8.9%, the number of employees in some decentralised agencies and executive agencies who have been entrusted with new tasks and tasks has increased by 19.9% and 42.9% respectively.
Illustration 2.7 shows that the resulting percentage changes occur in positions in all institutions, bodies and agencies.
(20) Rapid Case Review to implement a 5% reduction in employment, published on 21 December 2017.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/25 Illustration 2.7 Analysis of changes in the number of posts in 2012-2017 (in %) Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Court's Special Report on SRB 2.51.
The Single Resolution and Restructuring Committee (SDR) based in Brussels was set up in August 2014 as part of a political response to the financial crisis.
The Committee's task is to put an end to banks that are at risk of bankruptcy within its remit.
In January 2017, SRB f in 139 banks, including 130 banking groups, was fixed (21).
The review (22) examined whether the Committee was able to manage banks effectively, paying particular attention to the quality of the resolution plan for individual banks and whether the Committee was adequately prepared to meet the legal requirements for resolution planning and to use sufficient human resources to carry out its tasks.
The Court has identified shortcomings in all these areas, but since the creation of the Committee as a completely new structure was a huge challenge, it should be noted that shortcomings exist in this context.
The Court has made a number of recommendations to the Committee on the development and improvement of the principles and guidelines for resolution and on increasing the number of employees and improving human resources management procedures.
(21) On 1 January 2018, this figure fell to 127 banks and 119 banking groups.
(22) Special Report No 23/2017: ăSingle Committee on Restructuring and orderly decommissioning: First steps have been taken towards an ambitious Banking Union, but this is still a long way to go.
DE C 434/26 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The Court's Special Annual Report on contingent obligations arising from the implementation by the Single Committee on Restructuring and the orderly winding-up of its tasks 2.54.
In accordance with the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation (23), the Court must draw up a report on all conditional liabilities arising from the implementation by the Committee, the Council and the Commission of their tasks under this Regulation.
As of 31 December 2016, the Committee's conditional commitments resulting from earlier contributions amounted to EUR 842 million, which on 30 September 2017 increased to EUR 1 420 million.
In 2016, the Council did not start resolution of banks and therefore there were no contingent liabilities related to resolution in the financial year 2016.
On the date on which the Court published a report on contingent liabilities in 2016, which resulted from the performance of its tasks by the Committee, in connection with the resolution decision adopted in June 2017 in respect of Banco Popular Espa.ol S.A., 90 legal proceedings against the Committee were initiated by the end of October 2017 and 46 complaints were brought before the Board of Appeal of the SRB.
The Commission and the Council were informed of 26 proceedings brought before the General Court in connection with the resolution decision mentioned above.
Other special reports by the Court concerning one or more agencies 2.55.
In 2017, in addition to the implementation reports specifically devoted to agencies, the Court prepared a number of special reports and analyses on the implementation of EU policies for a number of agencies (see Figure 2.8).
(23) Article 92 (4) of the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/27 Illustration 2.8 Further special reports and analyses by the Court concerning the Agency Source: European Court of Auditors.
DE C 434/28 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE EU AGENCIES The Agencies confirm the Court's positive conclusions on the reliability of its annual accounts and the underlying conclusions.
The network could express its concern at the fact that, given that the Commission in Sysper only offers them a basic module package, the agencies will have to continue to use separate tools for evaluation, teleworking, slip time and staff reporting.
The IT landscape in the field of human resources management will therefore only become partially more uniform, and even much less, than the Commission can provide.
Agencies also want the possibility of introducing a common use for these services to support recruitment procedures that are currently not covered by Sysper.
With regard to public procurement, there has been a strong development in the last two years towards harmonisation of electronic tools.
This development began in 2015/2016, when DG DIGIT developed tools for electronic procurement in cooperation with DG BUDG.
Since then, this series of electronic modules at all stages of the public procurement cycle has become an increasingly standard respected by the agencies.
In 2018, this trend continued to change when new modules were introduced into the electronic submission of applications and the ABAC LCK module and were transferred to the agencies.
The agencies gradually aim to use their own isolated tools, which are quick, sometimes less rapid, but no matter how quickly this progresses, the trend does not appear in itself.
In practice, it is difficult to achieve the proposed efficiency gains through the implementation of financial reporting tasks for the European Commission.
The required work depends not only on the balance of the budget but also on the fact that at the beginning of each year the annual accounts must be finalised in a very short time.
Experience has shown that more than one package of annual accounts (i.e. additional financial resources) is needed in the case of posting contracts, almost twice as many employees, although the corresponding costs are lower (and significantly lower) than the financial costs.
Therefore, each agency will still have to transfer the accounting team to the Commission, as the tasks related to the accounts are still carried out.
As long as possible, any staff savings are not in line with full-time jobs.
In addition, the annual budget still needs to be paid.
For this reason, only a few agencies have decided to delegate this task to the Commission.
The Network would like to draw attention to the fact that no studies or risk assessments have been carried out so far which could justify the conclusion that the non-compliance of the authorising officer may be justified if he is directly subject to the authorising officer and not to the authorised authorising officer.
Some agencies have decided to adopt an accounting card, which includes, inter alia, reporting rules, where necessary, for the Management Board.
C 434/29 Page 31 33 38 43 46 51 56 61 64 79 83 87 90 94 98 103 109 112 116 128 132 136 141 153 161 165 DE FINANCIAL AGENCIES IN THE MFF 1A has no impact on competitiveness..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA).................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
European Institute for Gender Equality [risk]................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
European Agency for the Operational Management of Information Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Law (Risk of Law).................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
DE C 434/30 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018, p. 3.29.
169 3.30.
184 3.31.
188 3.32.
Euratom Supply Agency.............................................................................................................
191 3.33.
191 3.34.
195 3.35.
The Single Resolution Committee...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
205 ENFORCEMENT COMMISSION.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
209 3.37.
209 3.38.
213 3.39.
217 3.40.
221 3.41.
225 3.42.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/31 3.1.
We have consulted International Audit Standards (ISA) and IFAC and International Supreme Audit Standards (ISSAI) INTOSAI.
Our obligations under these standards are further described in the Ombudsman's liability section for our report.
We are independent in accordance with the Code of Ethics Professional Accountants International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code), as well as with the relevant requirements for professional behaviour, and our other obligations regarding professional behaviour are set out in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code.
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and adequate to serve as the basis for our judgment.
Responsibility of the management and supervisory authorities 3.1.2.
In accordance with Articles 310 to 325 TFEU and the Agency's financial rules, management shall be responsible for drawing up and presenting annual accounts on the basis of internationally recognised accounting bases, as well as for the public sector, as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying assumptions.
This includes the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures necessary for the preparation and presentation of annual accounts which are free from material or unintentional false presentations.
The Management Board of the Agency shall have ultimate responsibility for the rule of law and the regularity of the activities underlying their annual accounts.
When drawing up the annual accounts, the management shall be responsible for assessing the Agency's ability to further develop its business, for matters relating to the development of its business, except where the management intends to either liquidate the institution, or to cease its business activity, or there is no viable alternative.
Responsibility of the assessment body for preparing the annual accounts and underlying assumptions 3.1.5.
Our aim is to provide reasonable assurance as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material false presentations and whether they are justified and correct, as well as to the European Parliament and the Council or to other discharge authorities, on the basis of our recommendations, to provide information on the reliability of the Agency's accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying activities.
False presentations and understanding may be intended or unintended and shall be considered relevant if they can be expected individually or collectively to affect the economic decisions made by users on the basis of this Financial Statement.
3.1.6.
As regards revenue, we examine and assess, where appropriate, methods of collecting revenue and other revenue from agencies that have received from the Commission or the cooperating countries.
3.1.7.
As regards expenditure, we examine the assumptions concerning payments after approval, registration and acceptance of expenditure.
Advances shall be paid after proof that the measure has been used correctly and the Agency has accepted the evidence by clearing the advance in the same year or at a later date.
3.1.8.
As part of our coordination with ISA and ISSAI, we respect discretion throughout the process and maintain a critical position.
In addition, we cannot identify and assess the risks of significant or unintended presentations in the annual financial statements and material or unintended unintentionally. Contrary to the legal framework of the European Union with regard to the underlying principles, we can plan, create and train in response to these threats and obtain sufficient and adequate evidence of implementation to serve as the basis for our decisions.
The risk that material false information or inaccuracies resulting from the domestic action in relation to the legislation will not be disclosed is greater than that resulting from the domestic action, since the domestic action may include interrelationships, attempts, intended incompetences, irreversible images or strengthening internal controls;
C 434/32jjjjj jj jj jj jj European Union Official Journal 30.11.2018 We win compliance with the relevant internal control system to plan the actions appropriate on a case-by-case basis but not to give an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system; we assess the appropriateness of the accounting methods used by the management as well as the reliability of the values presented by the management and thus the information that may be concise; we propose the adequacy of the accounting principle applied by the management with regard to the further development of the business and on the basis of the evidence obtained, whether there is significant uncertainty as to the events or circumstances, whether there are significant doubts as to the effectiveness of the agency in the further development of the business.
If we come to the conclusion that there is significant uncertainty, we will be obliged to pay attention to the information contained in the financial statements in the final memo or, where this information is not appropriate, to change our opinion.
We draw conclusions based on supporting evidence obtained before the date of the contract notice.
We are responsible for instructions, monitoring and enforcement.
EN 3.1.9.
We exchange with the Management Board, among others, on the planned scope and schedule of implementation, as well as on relevant arrangements, including any relevant elements of the internal control system that we can identify during our work.
3.1.10.
We are based on the facts that we have discussed with the agencies, on those that were most important from the point of view of establishing the annual accounts in the current period, and are therefore particularly important.
We are discussing these facts in the report's memo unless the legislation or other provisions close the public statement of facts or in very rare cases we find that the fact should not be mentioned in the final expert's memo because it can be expected that the adverse effects of such notification will have an impact on the public interest.
(24) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012.
AGENTURE F NOT COOPERATION ON ENERGY REGULATION RDEN (ACER) INTRODUCTION 3.2.1.
The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ("the Agency') established in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (25).
In accordance with the REMIT Regulation (26), the Agency and national regulatory authorities have received additional tasks related to the monitoring of the European energy market.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (27).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 13 Total staff on 31 December (1) 91 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
WORDS not made in 2016 16103 LEGISLATION Right 3.2.3.
We have analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts ((28) and the budget implementation report (29) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying documents; (e) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
(26) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(27) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.acer.europa.eu verf.
(28) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, a cash flow balance sheet, a table of net changes and a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other calculations.
(29) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as reports on the implementation of the budget.
DE C 434/34 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Reliability of accounts Judgment on conformity of accounts 3.2.4.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.2.6.
COMMENTS ON ACCOUNTING 3.2.8 As part of this year's review of the EU agency, the Court analysed the invoicing system, including the issue of timely (new) approval of invoicing systems.
In October 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1494 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2017 to 25 January 2020.
Despite this huge change, the invoicing system was recently approved in 2011.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.2.9.
In 2011, the Agency received an additional task related to the monitoring of the wholesale energy market (REMIT).
For the first time in 2017, the elements foreseen by the REMIT supervisory framework were implemented.
However, in April 2017, it was transferred to Ljubljana to the Agency's main data centre.
Therefore, backup data are now stored in the same place as the original data.
The United Kingdom (UK) informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit) on 29 March 2017.
Unlike most other agencies, the Agency has not carried out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, application and bill.
3.2.11.
The Agency publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which means transparency and a publicist.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/35 3.2.12.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (30) (31). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing comprehensive IT documentation covering all stages of procurement procedures; it has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), e-publications of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the submission of electronic tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Agency did not have any of these tools.
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.2.13.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented in 2017 a report on human resources management at the Agency[32]. The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(30) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government.)
(31) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
(32) The Court has not examined the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/36 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years In connection with the establishment agreement between the Agency and the Government of Slovenia, a European school in Slovenia should be established, but this has not occurred more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
In its May 2016 evaluation report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the urgent need to clarify roles and responsibilities and analyse the workload of the contracting entity in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures.
The IAS also considered that the planning and monitoring of public procurement should be significantly improved. The Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
The Agency has provided EUR 4.9 million or 86% of the appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year (EUR 1,4 million and 59% respectively in 2015).
As in previous years, these measures were essentially linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation on integration and transparency in the wholesale energy market and amounted to EUR 4.7 million in 2016 (in 2015: EUR 1.1 million).
In Title II (administrative expenditure) the Agency paid EUR 1 million and 38% of the appropriations for the following financial year respectively (EUR 0,8 million and 35% respectively in 2015).
The efficiency factor is directly linked to the completion or signature of public procurement and public procurement procedures at the end of the year, leading to the transfer of supplies and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of 299 Vertragen were signed in November and December (EUR 5 976 122,47, or 40% of the total value of Vertragge closed in 2016).
The Agency may decide to introduce separate budgetary measures to better reflect the multi-annual nature of the contracts and the unavoidable discrepancies between contracts, supplies and payments.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/37 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.2.8.
The Agency agrees with the results and clarifies that the Agency recognises all financial transactions in the financial system made available by the European Commission, which is updated, maintained and approved by the Commission.
With the outsourcing of services to the Commission since October 2017, the Agency will accept the approval of the invoicing system made available by the Commission in 2018.
Since migration to the ACER's internal data centre at the beginning of April 2016 and integration in one place in June 2017, in order to optimise and increase efficiency and meet the growing demand for space, continuity of operation can no longer be ensured.
However, it should be noted that the current situation in which continuity cannot be ensured has been imposed on the Agency by a serious reduction in its budget over the last two years.
The Agency has repeatedly warned the Commission and budgets about the serious consequences of budgetary changes but without achieving results with regard to additional appropriations.
The Agency will continue to seek to restore its location in the context of the management of natural disasters by ARIS, but without the use of funding for this purpose in 2018.
Restoring the location in disaster management would require the Agency to receive additional funding.
Given that the risks associated with BREXIT were considered to be low and limited, in 2017, the management carried out only an informal analysis of Brexit.
The Agency published a comprehensive analysis of Brexit's impact on the organisation, functioning and financial areas in early 2018, highlighting the impact and the necessary actions.
In 2014, the Management Board of the Agency adopted Decision AB No 15/2014 on the Agency's language system.
Nevertheless, the Agency still needs to translate employment notices published on EPSO's website into all official EU languages.
Due to the very limited funding that has been repeatedly stressed in relation to the budget, the Agency cannot publish any individual offers of employment in all official EU languages on EPSO's website.
In 2017, four of the nine calls for tenders, including two public calls, were published on EPSO's website and were therefore translated into all official EU languages.
Calls for proposals by operational agencies have only been published on the Agency's website because they were essentially of interest to candidates who are already interested in this area and who usually followed the Agency's activities on our website as well.
This approach corresponds to the pragmatic importance between contact with potential candidates and the effective use of limited resources.
3.2.12.
In 2018, the Agency will start awarding electronic public procurement, which will be extended in 2019 to use electronic invoices and e-invoicing offers.
3.2.13.
Following the Commission's Internal Audit Report (IAS) on Human Resources Management, the Agency has agreed with IAS an action plan and is currently implementing the proposed improvements.
DE C 434/38 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.
The body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (hereinafter referred to as the "Australia Board of Regulators') established in Riga was set up by Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (33).
The table sets out the main figures for B not only (34).
Table Main figures for B no 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 4 total human resources at 31 December (2) 27 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall consist of officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by B.ro. The European Parliament and the Council proposed by the European Parliament and the Council COMPLETING REVENUE AND TOOLS TO THE UNCONFORMED PREPARER of 2016 4 27 RIGHT TO DO 3.3.3.
We analysed: (a) the annual accounts of Company B not only covering the annual accounts[35] and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (36) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, B's invaluable financial statements on 31 December 2017 shall provide, in an appropriate manner, in all material respects, B's financial and financial situation invaluable as at 31 December 2017, the results of its assumptions and cash flows and the evolution of the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending on 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's authorising officer based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 337, 18.12.2009, p. 1.
(34) For more information on the possibilities and possibilities of B, please refer to www.berec.europa.eu.
(35) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, a cash flow balance sheet, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other adjustments.
(36) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.3.6.
Note 3.3.7.
In December 2016, the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT) appointed a Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT) for the translation of four calls for expressions of interest in order to draw up a reserve list, although all posts approved by the Budget Office were filled in the establishment plan of B.ros.
Payments made under this contract under M not later than 2017 amounted to EUR 106 432,50 (or 2,5% of the 2017 budget).
3.3.8.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.3.9.
As part of the work on these EU agencies, the Court has carried out an accounting analysis, including a timely (new) validation of invoicing systems.
In 2016, B is not obliged to delegate its role to the Commission's accounting officer.
In 2017, he launched a new paperless system.
Although these events have led to significant changes in B invoicing procedures and systems, they have not been re-approved since 2013.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET 3.3.10.
In December 2017, B did not sign any legal commitments and financial commitments of EUR 20 000 for 2018.
The financing from the 2017 and 2018 budget is contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
In August 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020.
Moreover, the competitive procedure covered only the administrative costs of the tenderer but not the potential costs of the organisation.
Therefore, the award procedure was not adequate for price competition, which certainly did not lead to the most economically viable offer.
3.3.12.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (37) (38). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing comprehensive IT documentation covering all stages of procurement procedures; it launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
(37) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government in electronic form).
(38) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the electronic administration (ăe-Government to administration).
DE C 434/40 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.13.
On 29 March 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
Unlike most other agencies, B has not carried out an in-depth analysis of Brexit's potential impact on its organisation, application and bill.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/41 ANNEX Follow-up action in relation to the Court's observations in previous years The appropriations provided for in the 2014 budget by the national regulatory authorities of the EFTA States ((1), which have observer status in BEREC, have not been paid due to a lack of agreement with those countries.
In 2016, the Riga Lifelong Learning Programme launched a tendering procedure to block the children of their staff from a framework agreement with two international schools in Riga.
The framework agreement worth EUR 400 000, signed in July 2016, is therefore based on inconsistent concepts, resulting in a lack of legal certainty for B and schools.
In addition, the framework agreement in this particular case was ineffective.
As a result of the reclassification, the staff member was placed directly at level 2 rather than at grade 1 which is contrary to the EU Staff Regulations.
In March 2016, Company B did not conclude a contract of EUR 60 000 for the provision of specialist support and consulting services in the field of personnel.
In 2016, the average period of employment of B's employees was not more than 2,58 and the turnover of employees was 25%.
One possible reason is the adjustment rate applicable to the remuneration costs for the host country (73%).
Periodic external performance assessments are not required by the Block Exemption Regulation.
Together with the Commission, the Commission should commission such an evaluation at least every five years, as most other agencies do.
Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 European Free Trade Association 2016
DE C 434/42 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE PRESIDENT 3.3.7. Given the large fluctuations of staff, in which management saw a risk factor for the implementation of its work programme, the Management Committee of BEREC called for at least 75 % (39) of the Agency's employment profiles.
In order to comply with the obligation to publish calls for expressions of interest (40) on the EPSO website (41), documents had to be translated into all official EU languages.
The Agency may request the Management Committee to maintain a job vacancy rate of less than 15% by means of pre-developed reserve lists and to send job offers within one month from the establishment of the need for employment.
In order to avoid the high cost of translation required in the future, the BEREC Committee intends to develop standard templates for calls for proposals and short sections on translation.
3.3.9.
In 2016, BEREC forwarded its accounts to the European Commission.
Therefore, the European Commission's accounting officer (under DG Budget) provides the services required under Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to the agencies, including the approval of local systems.
The validation method is currently in progress and has been accepted by the European Commission's accounting officer in the official memo under reference Ares[2018]3149885 of 14 June 2018.
The accounting services of the European Commission will close the procedure and report on the results in the fourth quarter of 2018.
3.3.10.
In November 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1494 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2017 to 25 January 2020.
Therefore, it was necessary to sign the agreement with the organiser to ensure that both instructors and conference managers and meeting places were available on planned training dates.
The agreement was signed in December 2017 and a budgetary commitment was therefore made before the agreement was signed after it was submitted.
Experience shows that in the first quarter of the year it is very difficult to organise training without the need to transfer funds from the previous year; therefore, as far as possible, BEREC will carry out further training.
3.3.11.
The decision on the Framework Agreement was taken in 2015.
Discord is considered compatible with the Financial Regulation because other EU institutions have closed and continue to close many such entities (e.g. travel services or banking services).
Given the specificities of BEREC, a large proportion of BEREC's expenditure on events within the BEREC Authority concerns the waste of experts, mainly public authorities of EU Member States (e.g. national regulatory authorities, national regulatory authorities, national regulatory authorities, etc.).
It should therefore be concluded that the economic operator has no impact on this type of expenditure.
Following comments and a valuable exchange of views with the Court, in the context of the new opening of the procurement procedure, BEREC will also present other types of framework agreements which were not foreseen in the legal framework applicable after 2015.
The BEREC Office takes note of the Court's observations and informs the Court that it intends to introduce these modules by the end of 2018, taking into account the possibility for the Agency to use appropriate budgetary resources.
3.3.13.
The impact on the Agency's level of employment could only be established after the end of EU-UK relations.
Given that BEREC's financial allocations and human resources have not been modified in order to cover additional expenditure and additional labour expenditure related to Croatia's accession to the EU and, given the small budget of BEREC, Brexit does not foresee changes.
(39) See page 9 of MC (16) 136, Annual and Multinational Programming of the BEREC Office Activities 2017-2019 (annual and multi-day programming at the level of the "B unofficial" BEREC programme), of 9.12.2016; https://berec.europa.eu/eng/document_register/subject_matter/berec_office/office_annual_work_programmes/6554-annual-and multi-annual-programming-of-the-berec-office-activities-2017-2019 (40) The opinion referred to as "calls for tenders" or "calls for tenders."
(41) Article 11 of Decision MC/2015/3: Decision of the Management Committee of BEREC concerning general implementing rules for the procedure for the employment and employment of temporary staff in accordance with Article 2 (f) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/43 3.4.
EDUCATION CENTER (CEDEFOP) INTRODUCTION 3.4.1.
The European Centre for Vocational Training ("Centrum ădas'), established in Thessaloniki, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (42).
The Centre's main task is to promote and develop vocational training at Union level.
3.4.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the centre (43).
Table Main figures for Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 18 total staff at 31 December (2) 117 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall consist of officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Centre.
(a) the Centre's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (44) and the budget implementation reports (45) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Centre's financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 39, 13.2.1975, p. 1.
(43) More information on the possibilities and capabilities of the Centre can be found at www.cedefop.europa.eu.
(44) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other calculations.
(45) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/44 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.4.5. According to our assessment of the revenue underlying it during the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.4.6.
3.4.7.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion.
The management of two recruitment procedures in managerial positions has shown weaknesses and procedures are considered not to comply with the rules.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY HOLDER AND THE CERTIFICATE 3.4.9. The Centre publishes notices of employment on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (46) (47). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing all IT covering all stages of procurement procedures; it launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Centre did not have any of these tools.
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.4.11.
In November 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented an evaluation report on the Centre's online services (48).
(46) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government in electronic form).
(47) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
(48) The Court has not examined this work.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/45 ANSWERS OF THE CENTRE ON JUSTICE AND PRELIMINARY RULES 3.4.8.
We note the Court's observations on the irregularities in the two recruitment procedures.
Cedefop is currently preparing a detailed assessment of these two procedures and encourages corrective action to be taken on these two and on recruitment procedures in general in order to address the shortcomings identified by the Court.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY HOLDING AND RENDERING 3.4.9.
Cedefop uses EPSO in some cases.
Cedefop publishes its job announcements on its own website and on the online platform available to the agency, which is available to all EU citizens, and makes use of various job announcement channels, including ReferNet, SkillsNet, the Management Board, as well as other opportunities such as the networks of economists, etc. Cedefop publishes employment offers for the Director and Deputy Director of EPSO and uses its offer of social media for research posts.
Cedefop considers that the additional costs of translating notices into all EU official languages into the EPSO portal do not bring the expected benefits.
Cedefop took the first steps to join the electronic invitation to tender (modules of the ăe-Prior platform no later than autumn 2018, in order to meet the deadline provided for in Directive 2014/25/EU on public procurement for all contracting entities (http://ec.europa.eu/growth/single-market/public-procurement/e-procurement_en).
Cedefop shall cooperate for this purpose with the Directorate-General of the DIGIT Commission, which shall be responsible for the involvement of contracting authorities.
In October 2018, the first general invitation to tender will be launched under which modules for electronic invitations to tender and tenders will be used.
All general procedures shall be performed using electronic tools.
The start date of e-invoicing will depend on whether the management of Cedefop decides to introduce accrual accounting (with electronic invoice being used as a module) or to continue using the internal Fibus platform (assuming that an electronic invoicing agreement is necessary).
DE C 434/46 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.
European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) INTRODUCTION 3.5.1.
The European Aviation Safety Agency ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency').
The main figures for the Agency (51) are presented in the table.
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 192 Total staff on 31 December (1) 771 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
We have analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts ((52) and the budget implementation report (53) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and orderly nature of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer which are based on recognised international accounting bases.
OJ L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1.
OJ L 79, 19.3.2008, p. 1.
(51) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found at www.easa.europa.eu verf.
(52) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(53) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as reports on implementation of the budget.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/47 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.5.5. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.5.6.
3.5.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.5.8.
The Court considers that direct compliance with the Director (administrative matters) and the Management Board (functional matters) of the Agency is necessary.
Framework agreements shall be concluded with undertakings in order to determine the conditions applicable during the duration of the contract for certain (single) contracts.
The Agency has used a framework agreement with three operators in the cascade system to provide IT services up to EUR 22 million.
Under this procedure, after a competitive procedure, economic operators shall be placed in a hierarchy (cascades) which must be observed in all individual cases.
However, the terms of the Framework Agreement were not sufficiently detailed to achieve fair competition and to justify the establishment of a hierarchy of contractors for all potential individual applicants.
In accordance with the provisions on the application of the Financial Regulation (Financial Regulation)[54], inter alia, individual applicants must be granted through a competitive procedure between selected economic operators.
3.5.10.
In accordance with the Agency's financial rules (55), contracts must be approved by the Management Board either on the Agency's annual work programme or by means of an ad hoc financing decision.
The Framework Agreement on Computer Science, which amounts to EUR 15 million, has been announced and signed, even though the financing decision covered only EUR 5 million.
In 2014, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including EASA), the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor for the purchase of IT equipment and software and maintenance and support services (IT services).
The contractor of the framework agreement shall be the intermediary between the Agency and undertakings which may provide IT services.
Although most of these IT services and related prices are set out in a framework agreement concluded under a competitive procurement procedure, this agreement also applies to IT service contracts which are not specifically mentioned.
In the case of a paid payment of approximately EUR 300 000, the Agency purchased IT services without a competitive procedure.
In 2017, a payment of EUR 2 million under the Framework Agreement was made to the contractor of the Framework Agreement.
3.5.12.
(54) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012
(55) EASA financial provisions, Article 68 (2) and (3).
DE C 434/48 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.13.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (56). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT version covering all stages of public procurement procedures. The Commission has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), e-publications of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
In accordance with the information provided by the Commission by the end of 2017, the Agency has initiated an electronic call for tenders and tenders in electronic form for certain procedures but not for electronic invoicing.
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.5.14
In 2017, the Internal Audit Service submitted to the Commission an evaluation report on EASA's preparation of the European Aviation Safety Plan (58).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
(56) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to e-government).
(57) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.)
(58) The Court has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/49 PL ANNEX Follow-up action in relation to the Court's observations in previous years Although in 2016 the level of deficit financed by industry amounted to EUR 7.6 million, budgetary results vary from year to year[1), and the Agency accumulated EUR 52 million from such activities.
The Agency's Implementing Regulation states that the costs incurred by industry should be proportionate to the costs incurred by the Agency as a result of obtaining a marketing authorisation.
Between 2014 and 2016, the Agency used EUR 12.4 million to move to a new building worth EUR 9.4 million (in 2016: EUR 4.4 million) to cover renovation costs (and removals).
To this end, the Commission has contributed EUR 3 million from the EU budget.
Year 2016: correction status (completed/in progress/present/n.d.)
DE C 434/50 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.5.8.
The Agency discussed this issue within the Agency's network forum to discuss issues and to develop a common position.
The Agency shall implement the agreed common approach and shall in any case clearly separate the accounting role from the operational functions and include the Management Board in the renewal and evaluation cycle.
3.5.9.
In order to prepare this procedure, the Agency carried out a market analysis and concluded that the main IT service providers supported all necessary services under this procedure.
The Agency has therefore come to the conclusion that a multiple framework agreement with a re-call for competition has led to a high administrative burden, which, compared with the benefits which may result from this, has been found to be undeniable.
As in the case of high value tenders and as a result of the Court's observations, the Agency will be able to resume the selection process in order to promote competition.
The purpose of this Framework Agreement is to support the demonstration of the concept and initial phase of the new project (Data4Safety) whose funding and structure have developed over the months with a number of parties.
The value of the order was EUR 15 million, but ultimately EUR 4 million.
Therefore, it is impossible to make payments outside this amount.
3.5.11.
In the Agency's view, this approach is in line with the principle of sound financial management in the application of the existing interinstitutional agreement.
In the present case, the remuneration of EUR 24 816,60 was considered appropriate in comparison with the volume of the purchase and the cost required.
The Framework Agreement provides for this objective and the Agency has used it legally.
In 2015, the Administrative Board of the Agency (Decision No 08-2015) decided that EASA working language is English for recruitment and selection.
This decision was forwarded to the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which did not accept this decision as an exception to the provisions on publication of the notice of employment in all languages and the decision did not meet the needs of the Agency.
The Agency's network has recently created an online platform that allows agencies to publish their announcements on a wider scale.
EASA regularly publishes external employment notices on this new platform.
3.5.13.
The Court found that an electronic public procurement instrument was launched last year.
E-invoicing was completed in 2017 and IT solutions were sought under the Agency's resources and priorities.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/51 3.6.
EUROPEAN BANK SURVEILLANCE (EBA) INTRODUCTION 3.6.1.
The European Banking Authority (hereinafter ădie Beh including ăEBA in London) was established by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (59).
3.6.2.
The main figures for Beh in the incomplete population (60) are shown in the table.
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 38 total staff on 31 December (1) 190 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by staff.
(a) the annual accounts of the company consisting of the annual accounts ((61) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (62) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the annual accounts of Company F for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the financial statements of Company F on 31 December 2017, the balance sheet and financial position of Company B on 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and changes in the net worth of Company F for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the Commission based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12.
(60) For more information on Beh's achievements and opportunities, please visit www.eba.europa.eu.
(61) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(62) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN C 434/52 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.6.5. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.6.6.
Emphasising point 3.6.7. Without prejudice to the Court's judgment, the United Kingdom informed the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
An agreement on details of the speech is currently being negotiated.
On the basis of the information available at the time of signing the agreement (3 May 2018) Beh, a German company beh... prepared annual accounts and future financial statements.
3.6.8.
On 20 November 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
The move is planned at the beginning of 2019 and Beh in its annual accounts on removal costs of EUR 6,7 million and EUR 11.2 million with contractual payments to be made in London in the future.
3.6.9.
3.6.10.
In the case of the four open tendering procedures referred to above, only one tenderer obtained eligibility criteria and all other tenderers were excluded.
It suggests that Beh has nothing to do with quality criteria.
For such procedures, it is not possible to establish the most economical benefits for which quality and price should be balanced.
3.6.12.
Employment notices are published on their website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would allow transparency and publication in order to enable citizens to familiarize themselves with employment notices addressed to various European institutions and agencies.
3.6.13.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, the Agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (63) (64).
REPORTS ON THE AUDIT SERVICES OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT REPORTS 3.6.14.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented in 2017 an evaluation report assessing supervisory convergence (in 2017) of colleges and training activities (65), which developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a likelihood of recovery.
(63) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to e-government).
(64) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.)
(65) The Court has not examined this work.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/53 3.6.15.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European Supervisory Authorities (66) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (67).
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years 3.6.16.
(66) EBA, the European Banking Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) and the European Securities and Markets Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority).
(67) The Court has not examined this assessment.
OJ C 434/54 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years In order to cover universities, employees whose children attend primary or secondary school shall receive the educational allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations.
In 2012, the total value of education was around EUR 76 000.
Year 2012 Correction date (completed/ongoing/other/n.a.)
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/55 ANS. BEH RDE 3.6.11.
In carrying out procurement procedures, EBA shall endeavour to use the tools it is designed to maximise competition.
For four of the fjnfs, the qualitative weight and price were 60-40 and for the remaining 50-50. We believe that the low proportion of the financial evaluation carried out by the Court is linked to factors that EBA has no impact on, inter alia, the low interest in the invitation to tender (due to exchange rate risk, contract size, high tender costs and low profit margins) and the low level of quality of technical offers.
EBA publishes its employment notices in many media: the EBA website, Twitter and LinkedIn, EU training, EuroBrussels and EurActiv, ESCB-HRC, Financial Times and others (for entities with a higher profile).
In February 2018, EBA published ten calls for proposals on the EPSO website in all official EU languages.
EBA considers that through the use of these scumbags • it ensures full transparency in the publication of employment notices and reaches target audiences among EU citizens.
EBA will put in place an e-substitution system in 2019 and carry out training in the first half of 2019 and will test system updates.
DE C 434/56 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.
CHEMICAL EUROPE AGENCY (ECHA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1
The European Chemicals Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Helsinki was established by Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (68).
Their main task is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment and to ensure the free movement of substances in the internal market, while increasing competitiveness and innovation.
The Agency also encourages the development of alternative methods for assessing the risks of substances.
3.7.2.
The main figures for the Agency (69) are presented in the table.
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 112 total staff on 31 December (2) 563 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations. (2) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WRITE OF UNPRECTED EXPECTION IN 2016 110 578 RIGHT TO PRACTICE 3.7.3
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts ((70) and the budget implementation report (71) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer which are based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1.
(69) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.echa.europa.eu verf.
(70) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(71) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434 on the stigma of case 3.7.5.
Without questioning the Court's opinion in paragraph 3.7.4 above, the Court wishes to stress that the Agency is partly financed by own resources and that it is used by any undertaking applying for the registration of chemicals, in accordance with REACH (72).
Depending on the size of enterprises (small enterprises, small, medium and large enterprises) and on the quantity of chemicals registered (different quantitative thresholds).
3.7.6.
In accordance with the transposition Regulation[73], the calculation and invoicing by the Agency shall be based on information provided by undertakings at the time of submission of the application.
Since the first registration in 2009, around 30% of companies have claimed to be micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Agency has imposed considerable expenditure on the introduction of an ex-post ex-post system in which the information provided by these applicants on the company's activities is searched.
In this way, the Agency could conclude that, on the basis of the already completed review investigations, around 55% of the above-mentioned companies, which it considered to be micro, small or medium-sized enterprises (16% of all companies), had wrongly identified their size, leading to a reduction in the number of companies.
In order to remedy this situation, the Agency has covered over the years an ex post expenditure of around EUR 16.4 million in order to correct expenditure incurred in H of an irregular country.
However, the reviews are significant in the fixed state of R and the remaining amount of necessary corrections was not known at the end of 2017 (74).
This statement points to restrictions on the system based to too much on the self-assessment of applicants.
REACH provides that control of the quantities declared by companies is the responsibility of the Member States responsible for enforcement.
Therefore, the Agency does not participate in the examination of this second element f does not participate in the calculation of costs.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.7.8.
Our assessment shows that the payments underlying the annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 are justified and correct in all material respects.
3.7.9
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.7.10
Ex post studies carried out by the Agency have shown that in the case of more than one group of companies registered and revealing chemicals, micro-enterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises which have misdefined the scope (see paragraph on highlighting the facts in point 3.75).
This can be partly explained by the complex Commission rules on the determination of company size (75), and partly by financial incentives to indicate too low size, as registration authorities are much higher.
Since the original registration authorities are collected on the basis of the company's size, false information may have a significant negative impact on the Agency's revenue if it is not detected.
Although the Agency reviews the listed areas for smaller enterprises in the framework of ex post controls, these reviews are significant on a yearly basis and only until 2012 (with years of recorded quantities of chemicals).
(42) Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006.
Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2006 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, amending and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (OJ L 353, 31.12.2008, p. 1).
274. Ex post controls have been completed by the end of 2017 but further years are still in progress.
(75) Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36).
DE C 434/58 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.11.
Where errors are detected, the Agency shall charge an administrative fee for the difference between the primary remuneration paid and the final remuneration and the administrative fee.
On 31 December 2017, the amount to be recovered was EUR 4.7 million, of which EUR 3.2 million was related to administrative charges of an administrative nature.
However, the Agency appears to encounter difficulties in collecting administrative fees.
The Agency's financial statements for 2017 include irrecoverable claims of EUR 2.8 million (i.e. EUR 600 000 more than at the end of 2016).
3.7.12.
The examination of the quantities declared by undertakings is the task of the enforcement authorities of the Member States; the Agency does not have implementing powers (see paragraph to highlight the facts in point 3.7.5).
Action taken by Member States responsible for law enforcement shall be coordinated by the Forum on the exchange of information on law enforcement.
On 6 December 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
The ability of the Agency to carry out its tasks depends on the effectiveness of the practical implementation of this framework by national authorities.
In its overall report of 2017, the Agency indicates that around two thirds of companies do not update the recorded information on the quantities of chemicals they deal with.
This affects the effective implementation of REACH and the accuracy of calculations.
The Agency publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
OTHER COMMENTS 3.7.14.
The Agency's revenue from employment contracts is related to the time limits for registration of chemical substances in the EU set out in REACH (2010, 2013 and 2018).
The Agency therefore does not collect regular information and has difficulty finding a balance between relatively stable expenditure and more variable, less predictable revenue, which makes budget planning difficult.
The Agency shall be assisted by a grant which it receives from the Commission in view of this situation.
As the third and last period for registration of chemicals under REACH expires in 2018, revenue from taxes and charges is expected to fall from 2019 onwards and the Agency will continue to finance its activities from the EU budget.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/59 Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 Status of corrective work (completed/in progress/present/n) In progress (1) Work is ongoing Work on the Outgoing ANNEX Follow-up action on the Court's observations from previous years Expenditure on procedures related to the Agency's new special knowledge, the implementation of the Biocidal Products Regulation, has been broadly covered by the actions undertaken in the context of the risk assessment related to the registration of these products.
However, in 2014, this expenditure covered only 17% of these expenditures, which means that this part was actually financed by the Union contribution (EUR 6,3 million) and the EFTA States (EUR 0,2 million) to the Agency's budget. Under Title III (REACH operational expenditure), the appropriations allocated for the following financial year were EUR 10,1 million and 39% respectively (EUR 7,3 million and 32% in 2015 respectively).
Such a high rate of return is contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness; the Agency may seek to use separate budgetary resources to better meet the long-term nature of services and the inevitable fluctuations between contracts, supplies and payments.
In accordance with the provisions of the ECHA Biocidal Products Regulation, it contributes to the functioning of the biocidal products and biocidal products market.
In its annual report of November 2016, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the structure and practical implementation of the ECHA internal control system for the Agency's processes and tasks under the Biocidal Products Regulation is effective and effective.
Although no major changes have been identified, the IAS still recognises the need to improve the situation.
Unlike most other agencies, the ECHA Regulation does not explicitly require periodic external evaluations of their activities which are essential for the evaluation of results.
(1) In 2017, the Agency adopted EUR 8.1 million for biocidal products and charges (2016: EUR 7.6 million), which included 65% of expenditure on biocidal products (2015: 62 % and 2016: 88%).
This part was financed from the Union contribution (EUR 6.3 million) and the EFTA States (EUR 0.2 million) to the Agency's budget.
DE C 434/60 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.7.10.
Regulation (EC) No 340/2008 (REACH) does not provide that the Agency should carry out an ex-post review of the rules for all registration entities of SMEs.
The Administrative Board of the Agency approved an approach whereby the registerers of SMEs whose financial consequences (i.e. the majority of production registrations) are first checked.
In 2017, the Agency also drew attention to the registrations of SMEs from the United Kingdom who, before leaving the United Kingdom, had to deal with the tuberculosis of SMEs.
In the future, on the basis of the cost-benefit principle, we will increasingly implement the SME Agency.
3.7.11
Regulation REACH (EC) No 340/2008 does not provide the Agency with the tools necessary to enforce the application of administrative charges.
The Agency actively reminds debtors of their obligation to pay, and if this fails to succeed, obliges local law firms to claim outstanding amounts and fees directly in the Member States.
To date, the firm has contacted 74% of companies that are obliged to pay administrative fees and the outcome of this initiative will be analysed for costs and benefits in order to determine the most modern steps.
Member States are primarily responsible for the enforcement of REACH and CLP, in particular for the registration of chemicals.
The Agency's ability to obtain an appropriate mandate and to obtain revenues from public services depends on the effectiveness and practical implementation of the enforcement strategy by national authorities.
To solve this problem, we will talk to the Commission.
3.7.13.
The Agency takes note of preliminary comments on a number of agencies, namely a horizontal issue.
The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its own website, on social media and on the EU Network of Agencies (EUAN) website (https://euagenties.eu/).
In order to increase transparency and transparency, and to enable citizens to familiarise themselves with employment notices, the Agency recommends that the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) refer from its EUAN website.
3.7.14.
The initial remark is correct.
The Agency shall be financed through a combination of revenue from fees and fees and a compensatory subsidy from the European Union.
The Agency has presented a number of alternative financing proposals to the Commission, including the introduction of regular payments, as is the case with some other EU agencies.
The Agency draws attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Commission Communication on the review of REACH Regulation of 5 March 2018 (COM ((2018) 116 final), the Commission will present all possible possibilities to provide the Agency with sustainable funding in the future.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/61 3.8.
FIGHTING SUPERVISION WITH INSURANCE AND OPERATING INSURANCE (EIOPA) INTRODUCTION 3.8.1
The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (hereinafter ădie Beh.järdie Beh., including ăEIOPA.) established in Frankfurt was established by Regulation (EU) No4/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (76).
The Agency's task is to contribute to the definition of common standards and high-quality regulatory and supervisory practices, to the coherent application of binding Union legislation, to stimulating and facilitating the delegation of tasks and obligations to workers, to monitoring and evaluating market developments in their capacity and to support the protection of policy holders, beneficiaries of pension schemes and beneficiaries.
3.8.2.
The main figures for Beh bear are shown in the table (77).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 24 Total staff on 31 December (1) 151 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by staff.
WRITE OF UNFORCEMENT IN 2016 21 139 LEGISLATION RIGHT 3.8.3.
(b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the annual accounts of Company F for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the financial statements of Company F on 31 December 2017, the balance sheet and financial position of Company B on 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and changes in the net worth of Company F for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the Commission based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 48.
(77) For more information on Beh's achievements and capabilities, see www.eiopa.europa.eu.
(38) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(79) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/62 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.8.5. According to our assessment of the revenue underlying it during the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.8.6.
Note 3.8.7. The Court notes that the United Kingdom informed the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
The budget of EIOPA is financed 40% by the European Union and 60% by direct contributions from EU Member States.
As a result of the United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU, the revenue of the Taking Party will be significantly reduced.
3.8.8.
COMMENTS ON ACCOUNTING 3.8.9.
In Beh he is not the head of Corporate Support Account Guide.
The employment notice shall be published on its website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European Supervisory Authorities (80) (81) was carried out on behalf of the Commission.
(80) EIOPA, the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority.
(81) The Court has not examined this assessment.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/63 ANSWERS BEH RDE 3.8.9.
By April 2018, the annual report was addressed to the Head of Corporate Support and to the Management Board.
This system has not been considered to be a conflict with the hierarchical and functional inadequacy of the accounting officer, given that the Management Board has assessed the implementation of the annual accounts.
In May 2018, changes were made to clarify the accounting position in the following new reporting lines: hierarchical reports to the Executive Director and functional reports to the Management Board.
3.8.10.
In order to publish employment notices on the EPSO website, they should be translated into 24 EU official languages.
Since this has a serious budgetary impact, EIOPA has decided to use other media in which most EU agencies publish job advertisements.
EIOPA shall also use the Agency for Employment and Employment (Inter-Agence Job Advertising Board), a common platform for job offers developed by the network of agencies to which everyone has access.
In addition, EIOPA conducts a joint procurement procedure to announce recruitment procedures, ensuring greater visibility and reaching a wider audience in the EU.
DE C 434/64 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (hereinafter referred to as the "Institute of ădas," including the Institute of ăEIT) established in Budapest was established by Regulation (EC) No 294/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council1982.
The aim of the Institute is to contribute to sustainable economic growth in Europe and to increase competitiveness by supporting the innovation potential of Member States and the European Union.
The Institute encourages an increase in the number of Knowledge and Innovation Communities (CIPs), which combine in the field of higher education, research and the economy and thus foster innovation and entrepreneurship, receive grants.
The KICs shall coordinate the activities of hundreds of partners.
3.9.2.
The main figures for the Institute (83) are shown in the table.
Table Main figures for the Institute for 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 303 Number of staff actually employed at 31 December (2) 60 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations. (2) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Institute. The decision to initiate the procedure was forwarded to the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 3 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 514/2014.
We analysed: (a) the annual accounts of the institutions consisting of the annual accounts[84] and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (85) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Commission therefore considers that it cannot demonstrate that it is not compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty.
In accordance with our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts as at 31 December 2017 shall, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's authorising officer, submit net changes as at 31 December 2017, in accordance with all relevant considerations.
OJ L 97, 9.4.2008, p. 1.
(83) More information on the Institute's competences and competences can be found on the Institute's website https://eit.europa.eu/ verf.
(84) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, a cash flow balance sheet, a table of net changes, and a summary of the routine accounting bases and other losses.
(85) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/65 The rule of law and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.9.5. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.9.6.
Other comments 3.9.7.
In December 2016, just before the end of the summer period (1 January 2016-31 December 2016), the EIT signed amendments to individual financial assistance agreements with the KICs EIT Digital, InnoEnergy, Health and RawMaterials.
The amendment of the individual grant agreement with Climate KIC was signed even in January 2017, after the end of the transitional period.
As a result of the agreed increase in the refund of the KICs, the contribution of the EIT (6.0 million euro per Climate KIC programme, 5.6 million euro per EIT Health programme, 2.2 million euro per InnoEnergy KIC and 1.2 million euro per EIT RawMaterials).
This approach is contrary to the intention of KICs to be best at creating sources of funding and encouraging them to gradually reduce their financial capacity of the EIT.
It may also harm fair competition between KICs as co-financing expenditure is also important for annual grants.
3.9.8.
In addition, as a result of changes in the activities of KIC InnoEnergy and EIT Digital, several unforeseen projects have been added to the original projects with a total value of EUR 3.3 million or EUR 0.6 million.
The Court considers that the quality added to KIC InnoEnergy represents a significant change to the original business plan on the basis of which the maximum possible grant amount was established.
Since the level of grants granted to each KICs is the result of an evaluation procedure to which its original proposals are subject, significant changes to these programmes may undermine the grant application and equal treatment of the KICs and thus constitute an infringement of Article 180 (4) of the implementing rules of the Financial Regulation.
3.9.9.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.9.10.
In 2017, the Institute launched a paper-based payment system.
Although this has led to changes in its invoicing procedures and system, the invoicing system has not been re-approved since 2012.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.9.11.
In order to further strengthen the internal control system for financial assistance to the KICs, the EIT has carried out centralised ex ante controls for those KIC partners whose accounts exceed EUR 325 000.
These audits were carried out on behalf of the EIT (86) by two economic control companies and on the basis of the certified financial statements of the KICs partners.
The results of the ex post audits carried out by another audit company commissioned by the EIT confirm that the new approach to certified accounts is effective and important since most of the material errors detected concerned financial statements which were not subject to ex ante controls.
(86) In previous years, certification checks have been carried out by a number of private audit firms acting on behalf of individual KIC partners whose financial statements submitted were higher than the threshold of EUR 325 000 (reimbursement of real costs and unit costs).
DE C 434/66 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.12.
The EIT contingency plan was adopted in 2013 and is obsolete.
For example, in 2017 the EIT did not work more than members of the crisis management team.
For two years it has been working on updating the version of Pl.C.E., but it has not yet been adopted.
As in previous years, KICs have not fully fulfilled their financial commitments.
The approved total costs of the KICs' value added activities, which were functional before 2016 (total first and second wave KICs), were 15% lower than those adopted under individual grant agreements concluded in early 2016 (87).
The under-use of the funds was partly due to the approval of subsequent grant agreements and to the multi-annual nature of KIC activities in the most incomplete implementation of projects, as well as to the self-financing rate for administrative costs which for some KICs were significantly higher than expected.
Some of these appropriations have been used to increase funderf.h's costs related to the activation of the KIC's added value in primary cases of individual refunds (see point 3.9.7).
In particular, the Second Wave KICs (EIT Health and RawMaterials) were reluctant to start their activities.
For the first wave KICs, according to the EIT evaluation reports, in particular the performance of the Climate KICs was insufficient.
3.9.14.
The EIT has carried out an performance assessment and has calculated several amendments.
However, these corrections had no financial impact on any KICs.
In line with Horizon 2020 methodology, the calculation of the financial contribution of the EIT applies only those two corrections which are necessary as a result of financial control and evaluation of results.
While this methodology is suitable for individual projects under Horizon 2020, it is less suitable for grants granted to KICs which are financed from a wide range of different activities.
It is doubtful whether it is justified to take into account the corrections to be made as a result of adjustments, e.g. for educational activists, in relation to corrections that may be made as a result of financial control, e.g. for innovative projects.
3.9.15.
In 2017, in line with the EIT guidelines, all KICs adopted strategies for 2007-2013, an important step towards greater future stability of the KICs.
Nevertheless, first wave KICs continued to generate small revenues (from 2 to 6 per cent of KIC's value added costs) and there was little progress in 2017.
Co-financing from KIC partners is also still low (and is lower than that provided for in the individual aid agreements signed earlier): KIC's additional assets are still financed up to 62% to 90% of the EIT grant, depending on the KIC.
3.9.16.
The EIT publishes employment notices on its own website and on the website of the Directorate-General for Human Resources and Security, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.9.17.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (88).
The Commission has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic invitation to tender in the electronic version of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
OTHER COMMENTS 3.9.18
The current interim director of the EIT began his position in July 2014.
The selection procedure for the new director was launched in 2016 but failed.
No new recruitment procedure has been initiated since then.
This is a position contrary to the Staff Regulations, according to which the post may be filled before the expiry of one year.
3.9.19.
In accordance with Article 5.1 of the Statute of the EIT ă [], the staff of the EIT shall be directly recruited by the EIT as part of the temporary exchange of work to the extent that the staff of the EIT is subject to the conditions of employment of other servants of the European Union.
Consequently, the EIT may offer its temporary staff only a limited period of time, with an employment period of five years which may be missed by five years.
The staff who adopted the EIT shortly after its establishment in 2009 will reach the maximum duration of the agreement of 10 years in 2020, which in the coming years could bring benefits in terms of continuity of operations and management.
(87) I still 6% lower than the individual grant agreements concluded in December 2016 and January 2017.
(88) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to e-government).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/67 INTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS AND EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT REPORTS 3.9.20.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) discussed the way in which the Institute supervises grant agreements/89.
The Institute has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
3.9.21.
Between 2016 and 2017, the EIT was periodically evaluated for 2011-2015 on behalf of the Commission (90).
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(45) The Court has not examined this work.
(90) The Court has not examined this assessment.
C 434/68 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL Year 2012 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 Correction status (completed/permanent/n.a.) Completed (1) Ongoing (2) Ongoing (3) Closed ANNEX Further monitoring of Court observations from previous years No specific thresholds for specific categories of costs (staff costs, subcontracting, legal services, etc.) have been set in grant agreements.
In 2014, the Institute estimated a budget demand of EUR 13,1 million and 5,6% (EUR 3,4 million and 2,5% respectively in 2013), which means that only EUR 220 million was allocated from the usable EUR 233,1 million.
The low exploitation rate is essentially unused funding for €11.4 million to finance KIC capacity.
In accordance with the provisions of the KICs on the basis of which grant agreements were concluded, there was no need to make full use of the funds available to the Institute for 2014-2014.
The unused appropriations will be entered in the budget for 2015-2017 in accordance with the Institute's Financial Regulation.
Although KICs need to develop funding strategies that can be financed, they still depend fully on funding from the KICs' Institute and partners during the year of their existence.
Since the establishment of the Institute in 2009, the Institute has dealt with high staff fluctuations and instability at development level.
Two of the three management posts have not been filled since 2013.
One of them has been ad interim since 2013, which is contrary to the Staff Regulations, which provides for a period of one year.
The second one now has a COO, which is also a temporary director and therefore has three functions at the same time.
In its Special Report No 4/2016, the Court concluded that the condition that the EIT's contribution to the KICs should not exceed 25% does not confer a significant advantage and that its abolition significantly reduces the burden on KIC partners by operational and financial reporting (4).
However, these certificates are very different in quality terms, which means that the security that can be obtained from them is limited and the Institute must undergo additional checks.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/69 EN Court's observations on the Institute's tasks in the field of public and private resources and [] the use of resources in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.
In particular, the Institute aims to obtain a significant and growing part of its budget from private financial advisors and from revenues generated by its own experience.
Despite this provision, which explicitly refers to the EIT budget, the Horizon 2020 contribution amounted to 99% of its 2015 budget.
Although the institution may allocate unused appropriations (i.e. unused or released at the end of the year) to budget expenditure for the next three years, it has not adjusted its procedures in time to use EUR 26,6 million in budgets for 2015-2017 under the 2014 grant agreements.
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the KICs in connection with the use of less financial resources than foreseen.
In line with the initial objective of the Commission in 2010, the Institute should have financial autonomy.
However, in June 2011, the Institute obtained only part of its financial autonomy, as applications for grants and procurement procedures worth a quarter of a thousand euro are still subject to the prior approval of the Directorate-General Education and Culture.
The Institute supports the EIT Digital Master School programme in which 16 European Universities participate.
The model for the reimbursement of university costs is based on a combination of a lump sum of EUR 8 000/beneficiary studies (in line with Erasmus Mundus rules) with actual costs, including indirect costs calculated at a flat rate.
On this basis, universities received an average of EUR 15 000/students in 2015 (including a lump sum).
However, this model was not set in a comfortable way at any time and it cannot be distinguished which benefits are lower than the flat-rate amount and which are lower than the actual costs.
The institution should switch the collection of costs to a clear and original model based on a single method, such as a single flat rate based on evidence of costs.
Year 2015 Correction status (completed/in progress/other/n.a.)
C 434/70 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL Court's observations The principle of sound financial management has been infringed as another KIC partner, through the procurement procedure, has contracted public services of between EUR 800 and EUR 3 250 per person who has been reimbursed by the Institute in full (7).
In 2015 and 2016, the Institute adopted a framework agreement concluded by the Commission.
The prices fixed for these benefits ranged from EUR 800 per year to EUR 2 250 per year for the senior consultant (and were almost four times the price set in the framework agreement).
The services obtained at these prices amount to more than EUR 100 000 per conference.
The Court has identified shortcomings in ex post control of procurement procedures by KIC legal entities.
At least for one of the KIC's legal entities, the selection of procurement procedures to be carried out was not representative of the population.
In addition, in the case of two procurement procedures, the Court reached another conclusion on legality and regularity.
In these Fats, the Institute accepted a direct suggestion or extension of the rebellion.
The Commission's internal audit report ăGrant Management: Transition to Horizon 2020 on the management of financial assistance (the management of Horizon 2020) concludes that the Institute has successfully adapted its procedures to the rules applicable to Horizon 2020, in particular to the rules for participation in Horizon 2020, and that the checks carried out by the Institute in the start-up phase have proved to be an effective means of supporting new KICs.
The IAS also stated that urgent action was needed to ensure the effective application of the Horizon 2020 legal framework and to further improve the initial development phase of the new KICs. The Institute and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan for 2014-2020.
For Title II, the appropriations for the following financial year amounted to EUR 0,4 million and 40% respectively (EUR 0,4 million and 44% respectively in 2015).
These benefits relate mainly to the year of implementation of IT services and the costs of meetings for which invoices have not yet been received.
2015: year 2015: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2015: year 2015: year 2015: year 2015: year 2015: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2015: year 2015: year 2015: year 2015: year 2015: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year: year: year 2016: year 2016: year: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year:
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/71 PL The Court's observations for the calendar year 2015 were granted only in April 2015 and grant agreements were signed in June and July 2015.
For the calendar year 2016, grants were granted and signed in April 2016.
Despite the improvement in 2016, these misunderstandings regarding grants and the signing of grant agreements to ensure security and reduce the willingness of partners to make amends at the beginning of the year and to make amends.
The oldest calls for new KICs, the themes of which were set out in the EIT's Strategic Innovation Plan 2014-2020, were not competitive.
Only seven proposals were submitted in response to the call for two KICs (Health and RawMaterials) launched in 2014.
Following the 2016 call for two additional KICs (Food and Manufacturing), three proposals were received and the only proposal for KIC Manufacturing (added value in production) was not extracted from "Qualitsgr.
The Director has been filled since August 2014 and another post since February 2013 ad interim.
This is not only contrary to the statute, according to which the previous occupation cannot last more than one year, and changes and long-term transitional changes have also affected stakeholders and have had an impact on the strategic continuity. The Institute is an important participant in the implementation of Horizon 2020, with a budget of EUR 2.4 billion in 2014-2020.
The Commission has set up a central support body for Horizon 2020 to ensure coherence between programme implementation actors in areas such as legal services, IT tools, grant management, dissemination and exploitation of research results, etc.
However, unlike Commission executive agencies and public-private partnerships, the Institute does not have direct access to the supporting body but must in any case obtain the approval of the Commission's Directorate-General.
This requirement has a negative impact on the effectiveness of the Institute's activities.
Year 2016 Date of correction (completed/in progress/in progress/n.d.)
C 434/72 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's comments Coordination and representation of KICs are carried out by the legal entities of the KICs, which are almost fully financed by the Institute.
The Court drew particular attention to the procurement procedures of those entities which it considers to be a high risk area.
In accordance with the grant agreements concluded in 2015, KIC legal entities and/or KIC partners must ensure that the best results are achieved in the case of public contracts or, where appropriate, the lowest price criterion.
For all applications for grants of more than EUR 60 000, KIC legal entities or KIC partners must, in accordance with grant agreements, invite at least three contractors to submit tenders and document the procurement procedure in order to demonstrate their transparency.
The Court examined a sample of tender procedures worth around EUR 7 million, which were fully financed by the EIT by the KIC's legal entities.
Significant differences in duration and/or scope, without limitation of the duration and/or scope or weight of the quality/price that led to price competition, have been disclosed.
The Institute also stated that in procurement procedures with respect to the legal person of the KICs, it was also possible to take action to improve procurement procedures by all legal entities of the KICs.
Despite a significant increase in the budget from EUR 309 million (2008-2013) to EUR 2,4 billion (2014-2020) and despite the existence of six KICs since the end of 2016, and not three KICs, the number of posts approved by the Institute has not changed much (see Table 2).
As stated in the Court's Special Report No 4/2016 [9], there is a risk that the Institute will not have a full job available to resolve the workload involved.
The Institute's interim director drew attention to this risk in the Institute's annual activity report for 2015.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
In 2016, the need for budgetary resources was too high by EUR 13.1 million and 5.0% (EUR 25 million and 9.4% respectively in 2015), which meant that only EUR 249.9 million was allocated from the usable EUR 263 million.
Unused appropriations may be included in the budget for 2017-2019.
On average, the EIT financed 90% of the charity costs reported by the KICs under the 2015 grant agreements.
The data collected by the KICs from different sources represented 2,5% of the proposed budget by the EIT.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology must amend its implementation mechanisms and certain conceptual elements in order to achieve the expected effect.
In line with the EIT's response to the 2015 report, the EIT Regulation still seems different.
In 2016, universities received an average of EUR 17 000 per year and students on the basis of the model described, based on a combination of actual costs and flat-rate costs. This model was established at the end of 2016 and will apply from 2017.
In 2016 (the 2015 proposal for financial assistance), the EIT paid EUR 410 000 to carry out this task.
In February 2018, the cast was held.
In June 2018, the Commission initiated the recruitment procedure for the post of Director.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology must amend its implementation mechanisms and certain conceptual elements in order to achieve the expected effect.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/73 ANSWERS OF THE INSTITUTIONS 3.9.7.
The EIT wishes to clarify that for individual financial assistance agreements, the KICs framework agreement may be submitted by the EIT at any time during the transitional period.
The KIC change agent was subject to the technical and financial assessment of the EIT and to prior approval by the European Commission.
The amendments were subsequently signed in December 2016.
In the case of EIT Climate-KIC, the KICs were formally notified of the approval of the request for amendment on 21 December 2016 (i.e. during the transitional period).
As regards the amount of each refund, the EIT notes that in 2016 no additional grant was paid to the KICs resulting from changes in individual grant agreements.
The total amount of aid finally granted (EUR 241.8 million) was significantly lower than the amount initially planned (EUR 274.9 million).
As regards the call for KICs to create their own sources of funding and increase their financial capacity, we refer to the response to point 3.9.15.
In the evaluation of the amending measure, the EIT, after consulting the European Commission, concluded that the adjustment of individual refunds is in line with the legal basis in force and does not affect the equal treatment of the KICs.
The possibility of adjusting individual refunds was open on equal terms for all KICs.
With regard to the second remark, the EIT considers that the amendments to Article 180 (4) of the implementing rules were in line with the Financial Regulation as they did not undermine the grant decision and did not infringe the equal treatment of applicants.
It should be noted that there is no provision on the materiality threshold which indicates a change to be considered relevant in assessing whether the change concerns the material nature of the grant.
In order to determine whether the inclusion of new tasks is compatible with this provision, account should be taken of the importance and impact of these activities on the KICs' overall action plan on a case-by-case basis.
The EIT assessed before approving the climate change measure and concluded that the changes did not undermine the grant decision.
Since each KIC had the opportunity to include new opportunities on equal terms in its revised activities, equal treatment of KICs was also ensured.
In addition, the EIT notes that for EIT InnoEnergy only 3.9% of the revised budget estimate under the KICs development plan was the only option that could be called into question.
For the EIT, this figure was 0.6%.
3.9.10.
3.9.12.
In 2018, the EIT shall adopt updated versions of the contingency plan and the operational plan for restarting after system failure.
3.9.13.
Individual grant agreements concluded in 2016 with EIT Health and EIT RawMaterials were signed later than expected, as the framework partnership agreements had to be signed first.
The individual aid agreements for 2017 and 2018 were systematically signed in February, which enabled the KICs to start operations in a given year.
Due to its dynamic and dynamic essence, innovative actions cannot be planned linearly.
Some innovative projects or projects do not meet the expectations of their potential and must be halted during the implementation of grant agreements. In some cases, KIC activities, such as master's and doctoral studies, or long-term research and innovation projects, are carried out from home for several years.
After 2020, the EIT intends to conclude grant agreements with the KICs for many years, provided that appropriate commitment appropriations are allocated to the EIT budget in multiannual instalments.
In fact, the EIT has complied with the methodology for calculating grants set out in the legal basis of Horizon 2020 in an unlimited manner and will continue to comply with existing legislation.
The financial reliability of the KICs is a unique ambition of the EIT-KIC model and one of the most difficult aspects of the EIT mission.
At present, some innovative communities can already demonstrate the serious co-financing they face and generate significant revenues compared to their budget.
In this way, the EIT has used 26% (22 million euro) co-financing to cover the cost of activities towards the added value of the KICs in 2016.
Another example is EIT Health: KICs earned EUR 6 million in their first year of activity compared to total funding received from the EIT (around EUR 19 million).
DE C 434/74 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.17.
The EIT intends to launch electronic invitations to tender and tenders after the necessary agreements have been concluded with the European Commission.
3.9.18.
On 1 June 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
The first staff arrived at the EIT in 2010 and reached a maximum employment period of 10 years by 2020.
The EIT is aware of the risks identified in the Annual Activity Report of the EIT for 2017.
By letter dated 14 May 2018, the EIT requested a legal opinion from the European Commission.
OJ C 187 A, 1.6.2018, p. 6.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/75 3.10.
EUROPE MARITIME TRANSPORT SECURITY AGENCY (EMSA) INTRODUCTION 3.10.1.
The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter "the Agency') established in Lisbon was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council (92).
The Agency's objective is to ensure a high level of maritime safety, increase pollution by ships, technical support to Member States and the Commission, and to monitor the application of Union rules and assess their effectiveness.
3.2.2.
The main figures for the Agency (93) are presented in the table.
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 79 total staff on 31 December (2) 250 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations. (2) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WRITE UNFORCEMENTED IN 2016 71 246 LEGISLATION LAW 3.10.3.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of annual accounts[94] and budget implementation reports (95) f not in the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer which are based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1.
(63) For more information on the Agency's competences and competences, see www.emsa.europa.eu verf.
(94) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(95) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/76 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.10.5. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.10.6.
3.10.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.10.8.
In 2014, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), the Commission concluded a framework agreement with a contractor who acquired software licences and maintenance and support services.
The contractor of the framework agreement shall be the intermediary between the Agency and undertakings which can meet the needs of the Agency.
In 2017, a payment of EUR 1.7 million was made to the contractor of the framework agreement.
The Agency did not systematically compare calculated prices and charges with company offers and did not systematically check invoices issued to the contractor of the framework agreement. COMMENTS ON THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE BUDGET AND CERTIFICATE 3.10.9. The Agency publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.10.10.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, the Agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (96) (97).
The Commission has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
AUDIT REPORTS OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT REPORTS 3.10.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented in 2017 reports on the implementation of actions financed from projects and human resources management[98].
3.10.12.
An external evaluation of the Agency's performance in 2011-2016 (99) was carried out on behalf of the Commission in 2017.
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
(96) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to e-government).
(97) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.)
(98) The Court has not examined this work.
(99) The Court has not examined this assessment.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/77 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years In 2014, the Agency concluded a six-year framework agreement worth EUR 3.5 million for the purchase of goods and services in the IT sector.
The Agency challenged the demand and expected value of the contract, which meant that at the end of 2016 the contract was closed in 80%.
A new procurement procedure should be launched four years later than expected, resulting in additional administrative costs.
In 2016, the Agency completed the purchase of pollution control systems in seven frames.
Each framework agreement (each batch in the procurement procedure) referred to a specific contract.
The tendering procedure was initiated on the basis of the assumption that the total value of seven framework agreements would be EUR 7 million.
However, this assumption undermined the needs of the agency and signed a seven-year legal framework of EUR 7 million, which gives Vertragge a total amount of EUR 49 million.
Year 2016 (completed/permanent/infinite/n.a.) n.a. n.a.
DE C 434/78 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.10.8.
The Agency will remind authorised project officials to consistently search the necessary price controls charged by the supplier and/or to verify that appropriate fees are applied.
In this framework agreement EMSA will also ask the contracting authority to be the contractor to regularly ask the contractor to determine the market price/payment when responding to the requirements of the tender.
3.10.9.
Following the decision of the EPSO court, it decided that only employment notices could be published on the EPSO website in the official languages of the European Union or in the languages indicated in the Agency's implementing act.
Because of the high translation costs of this new policy (about EUR 19000 per quoted entity), EMSA no longer uses EPSO services, like many other agencies, in connection with their contracts for work.
This issue was raised by some agencies against EPSO in December 2015.
EMSA wishes to ensure sufficient transparency and compliance with the principle of sound financial management.
The Agency is trying to spread employment notices to the general public, spreading them to various social media used by many people.
It should be noted that most EMSA employment offers are addressed to technical specialists who regularly use EMSA's website.
In 2017, EMSA made significant preparations to adapt all internal procedures to the use of e-procurement.
EMSA can best confirm that it has enabled electronic order modules since the beginning of 2018.
The deadline for use of e-procurement by the EU institutions is October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/79 3.11.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY INTRODUCTION 3.11.1 AND INFORMATION SECURITY (ENISA).
The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Athens and Heraklion[100] was established by Regulation (EC) No 460/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (101), which was replaced after several amendments by Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 (102).
The main task of the Agency is to improve the Union's capacity to address and solve network and information security problems by exploiting actions taken at national and Union level.
3.11.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (103).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 11 Total staff on 31 December (1) 70 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
We have analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (104) and the implementation reports (105) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer which are based on the international accounting bases.
(100) The Agency's operational staff were transferred to Athens in March 2013.
OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 1.
OJ L 165, 18.6.2013, p. 41.
(103) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.enisa.europa.eu verf.
(104) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(105) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as drawing conclusions.
EN C 434/80 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.11.5 According to our assessment of the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.11.6.
3.11.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.11.8.
The new accounting officer of the Agency took office on 1 December 2017.
The data transmission process has not been closed and has not complied with the requirements laid down in Article 55 of the implementing rules.
In particular, no budget implementation report has been submitted to the new accounting officer. COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY HOLDING AND STATEMENTS OF EXPENDITURE 3.11.9. The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.1110.
External evaluation report 3.11.11.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance in 2013-2016 (106) was carried out on behalf of the Commission.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(106) The farm did not do this work unbelievably.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/81 (1) According to ENISA, the number of employees was reduced to 11 employees at the end of 2017.In 2015, the Agency plans to partially transfer administrative staff from Heraklion to Athens in 2016.
In Title II (administrative expenditure) the appropriations entered for the following financial year amount to EUR 0,3 million and 25% (2015: EUR 0,15 million and 22% respectively).
This high rate is essentially linked to Title I (staff expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) and is mainly linked to IT investments and the purchase of a business car just before the end of the year.
In accordance with the Agency's financial rules, external evaluations of the Agency's performance were carried out in 2014 and 2015 and final reports were presented in October 2015 and May 2016 respectively.
The assessment carried out in 2014 concluded that the main operational aspects of the 2014 work programme were clearly linked to the Agency's legal mandate; the Agency's effectiveness was considered to be good.
However, the need to improve the division of agencies between Heraklion and Athens has been identified, leading to serious problems at work and lack of communication and cooperation.
The 2015 assessment concluded that the Agency's tasks and results meet the needs for network and information security across the EU and in the Member States and that the Agency effectively meets the expectations of its stakeholders.
However, the report stresses that communication between the Agency and its stakeholders should be improved, which, according to the Agency's mandate and scope, are too limited.
The Agency is currently implementing an action plan which has therefore been agreed with the Management Board.
In 2016, the Agency transferred eight other employees to Athens, thus reducing the number of employees in Heraklion to 14 (1).
The Court's 2013 report concluded that the combination of all staff in one place could further reduce costs.
DE C 434/82 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.11.8.
Although the exchange of information on new accounts has never been formalised, informal meetings with the current accountant have been held in order to transfer knowledge.
The new accountant also received updated SAP training to ensure a good understanding of the invoicing system.
However, ENISA will take corrective action to ensure adequate transfer of staff to new workers.
3.11.9.
Calls for employment published by EPSO must be translated into all EU official languages.
Unfortunately, due to the limited budget, ENISA is unable to bear these costs.
However, the Agency uses traditional and social media and has committed itself to working together to create a portal covering the Agency to reduce the risks associated with the publication of employment notices, as many decentralised institutions face the same problem.
ENISA has not carried out a formal operational and financial review of Brexit as it has no significant direct impact on the budget, operation and management of ENISA.
However, internal procedures (e.g. purchases and settings) have been developed in the context of Brexit.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/83 3.12.
RAIL AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (ERA) INTRODUCTION 3.12.1.
The European Union Railway Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Lille and Valenciennes was established by Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, replaced by Regulation (EU) 2016/796 of the European Parliament and of the Council (107).
The Agency's task is to improve rail interoperability and develop a common approach to safety in order to contribute to the creation of a more competitive European rail sector with a high level of safety.
3.12.2.
The table below shows the main figures for the Agency (108).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 31 Total staff on 31 December (1) 164 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
Council Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 of 20 December 2006 on the European Social Fund (OJ L 210, 31.7.2006, p. 1).
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (109) and the budget implementation reports (110) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the financial and financial situation of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer based on the international accounting bases.
(107) OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671.
OJ L 220, 21.6.2004, p. 3 and OJ L 220, 21.6.2004, p. 3.
Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1).
(108) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.era.europa.eu verf.
(109) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other adjustments.
(110) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN C 434/84 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts Opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.12.5.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.12.6.
3.12.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.12.8.
In December 2016, the Agency's accounting officer was also appointed interim head of the financial department and public procurement.
Within this additional function, he shall be responsible for the management of the staff responsible for initiating and checking commitments and payments.
The Agency's financial rules provide that those financial entities shall be subject to the authorising officer.
However, in accordance with the principle of separation of tasks, authorising officers and auditors are separate and mutually exclusive.
In 2014, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor who acquired IT equipment and software and maintenance and support services (IT services).
In 2017, a payment of EUR 1.1 million was made to the contractor.
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.12.10.
In 2017, the Internal Audit Service presented to the Commission a report on the management of the Agency's staff and competences[112].
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years. (111) The Court has not examined these work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/85 EN ANNEX Continuation of the Court's observations from previous years The Agency's seat is in Lille and Valenciennes.
As the Court stated in its special annual report for the financial year 2006, it is possible to reduce costs by combining all possibilities in one place.
This could also facilitate the conclusion of a comprehensive establishment agreement with the Member State where the Agency is established and thus lay down the conditions under which the Agency and its staff are working.
Year 2013 Status of work on the correction (completed/in progress/other/n) in progress (not subject to scrutiny by the Agency)
DE C 434/86 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.12.8.
The Agency is currently undergoing major restructuring so that it can carry out its new tasks.
Within this action plan and in accordance with the action plan agreed with the Internal Audit Service, an appropriate division of tasks between internal audit officers should be established.
3.1.2.9.
The Court found that the contract was used in accordance with the provisions of the DIGIT DI07360 Framework Agreement.
Any further efforts to manage the budget should be reported to the contract manager, i.e. DG DIGIT.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/87 3.13.
INTRODUCTION 3.13.1.
The European Securities and Markets Authority (hereinafter "the European Securities and Markets Authority') established in Paris was established by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (112). 3.13.2.
The Fund aims to improve the functioning of the EU's single financial market by ensuring the high, efficient and coherent nature of regulation and supervision, ensuring the integrity and stability of financial systems and strengthening international supervisory coordination to ensure the stability and effectiveness of the financial system.
3.13.3.
The main figures for Beh are shown in the table (113).
Table Key figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 42 total human resources at 31 December (2) 226 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
(a) the annual accounts of the company consisting of the annual accounts ([properties]) and budget implementation reports (115) f not in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84.
(113) For more information on Beh's achievements and opportunities, see www.esma.europa.eu.
(114) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(115) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as reports on the implementation of the budget.
DE C 434/88 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.13.6. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.13.7.
Note 3.13.8.
The Court notes that the United Kingdom informed the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
An agreement on details of the speech is currently being negotiated.
27 percent of the staff budget is financed by the European Union, 42% from direct contributions from EU Member States and 29% from supervised entities funds (rating agencies and trade repositories). 2% comes from other sources.
The speech of the United Kingdom may affect the opportunities of residents as the main supervised entities are currently there.
3.13.9.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET HOLDINGS AND EXPENDITURE 3.13.10. Employment notices are published on their website and on social media, but not always on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
AUDIT REPORTS OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT REPORTS 3.13.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented an evaluation report on the peer review procedures carried out by ESMA for national supervisory authorities (116).
As a result, let Beh draw up an action plan.
3.13.12.
The external evaluation of the three European Supervisory Authorities (117) (118) was carried out on behalf of the Commission in 2017.
(116) The Court has not examined this work.
(117) ESMA, the European Banking Authority and the European Banking Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority).
(118) The Court has not carried out this assessment.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/89 ANSWERS BEH RDE 3.13.7.
ESMA recognises this problem and will continue to monitor progress in the Brexit negotiations.
EPSO has decided to publish notices to ESMA on its website only if employment notices are available in 24 languages.
In 2017, the translation costs (Fjord of employment offers of 16) incurred by ESMA amounted to EUR 32 431.
ESMA considers that the cost of translating all employment notices in 23 languages is not justified from the point of view of the economic budget and has therefore decided to use other media where most EU agencies publish their employment notices.
DE C 434/90 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.14.
European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (EU-OSHA) INTRODUCTION 3.14.1
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Bilbao was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 (119).
The Agency's tasks are to collect and disseminate information on national and Union priorities in the field of health and safety at work, to support national and Union bodies responsible for policy-making and implementation, and to inform about preparatory actions.
3.14.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (120).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 15 Total staff on 31 December (1) 64 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WORDS not made by the Court for 2016 1765 RIGHT TO ACT 3.14.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (121) and the budget implementation reports (122) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
(119) OJ L 119, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 (OJ L 216, 20.8.1994, p. 1).
(120) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found at www.osha.europa.eu verf.
(121) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other adjustments.
(122) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/91 The rule of law and regularity of the annual accounts of Pregènge Opinion on Legislation and the revenue order underlying the annual accounts 3.14.5. According to our assessment of the revenue underlying them in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.14.6.
3.14.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.14.8.
The Director of the Agency's accounting department shall be the Head of the Resource and Services Centre.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.14.9
The appropriations made available under Title II (administrative expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) amounted to 40% for each title or a total of EUR 3,5 million, which is contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
There is no evidence that appropriations are carried over related to expenditure planned during the budgetary procedure.
For example, in December 2017, the Agency ordered EUR 220 000 for the purchase of IT and hardware.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (123) (124). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT version covering all stages of public procurement procedures. The Commission has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), e-publications of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Agency did not have any of these tools.
3.14.11.
Unlike most other agencies, the Agency has not carried out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, application and bill.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(123) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government in electronic form).
(124) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.)
OJ C 438/92 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 2016 During the implementation of DE ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations of previous years Title II (administrative expenditure) (2015: EUR 364 740 and 26%) noted a high rate of budgetary commitments for the financial year 2017.
These measures relate essentially to IT services which have not yet been fully implemented or invoiced at the end of the year.
The appropriations entered in Title III for the following financial year amounted to EUR 3370616 and 43% (2015: EUR 3383052 and 41%).
This appropriation is mainly intended to cover research and research projects lasting over one year.
In 2014, the Agency concluded a framework agreement on IT services for the period 2014-2017 of EUR 1.1 million.
Although the individual implementation forms of the Framework Agreement signed in 2016 clearly defined the results of the project, the advisers were obliged on the basis of time and resources, the price being not fixed and directly linked to the results but due to the number of working days worked.
In addition, in 2016, around 50% of IT services were provided outside the Agency's reach, allowing the Agency to monitor to a limited extent the effective implementation of Austragge.
In 2016, payments made after the adoption of this Framework Agreement amounted to around EUR 0,4 million.
The Agency's implementing regulation shall not impose any requirements for the assessment of its external competence.
The Commission's proposal for a new discharge regulation provides for an evaluation to be carried out every five years.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/93 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.14.8.
For organisational reasons, the accounting officer in the organizational programme is assigned to the Resource and Services Centre and his ability to use the services of financial staff.
However, in order to ensure independence, the accounting officer shall report directly to the Director (not to the Director of the Resource and Services Centre).
3.149.
Title III mainly deals with major research projects lasting over one year and related to the annual work programme for 2017.
Title II revenue relates primarily to services that exist over a period of two calendar years.
As regards the amount of EUR 0.2 million, it should be noted that from 2014 the amount of Title II appropriations has been reduced to EUR 1.4 million and that this amount has been transferred to new areas, leading to savings of EUR 0.6 million per year.
In 2017, the amending budget in Title II was subsequently reduced by EUR 60 000 in the form of an amending budget adopted in June, which means a reduction in the contribution of local authorities to the EU-OSHA infrastructure budget.
Most of the IT service contracts in question were scheduled for 2018 (documented in the draft budget for 2017 and subsequent phases of budget planning), but in 2017, when the appropriations for this purpose were intended to cover expenditure.
From the 2019 budget, the programming document will contain a list of possible IT procurements, provided, for example, that appropriations are available to cover expenditure as a result of the renegotiation of prices.
The Management Board, Parliament and the Council have been notified of the use of titles (in accordance with the provisions of the framework Financial Regulation).
3.14.10.
Since the end of 2016, the Agency shall make available its website by electronic means for all procedures started (ex ante notifications of low or medium value entries and contract notices), also providing special e-mail addresses for public procurement.
In 2018 (target: October) the Agency will launch the process of announcing and examining requests for information until the submission of tenders using the electronic invitation to tender tool.
The Agency has now carried out an analysis of Brexit's potential impact on its organisation, operational application and invoice.
DE C 434/94 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.15.
EUROPEAN PROGRAMME FOR IMPROVING LIFE AND WORK CONDITIONS (EUROFOUND) INTRODUCTION 3.15.1.
The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (hereinafter referred to as the "Fund") (hereinafter referred to as the "Fund") established in Dublin was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (125).
The Foundation's task is to contribute to the creation and creation of better living and working conditions in the Union by promoting and disseminating knowledge on this subject.
3.15.2.
The main figures for the Foundation are presented in the table (126).
Table Main figures for the Foundation for 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 total staff on 31 December (1) 100 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Foundation.
WRITE OF UNCONFORMED EXPLAIN IN 2016 21 104 RIGHT TO PRACTICE 3.5.3.
(a) the Foundation's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (127) and the budget implementation reports (128) of the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity underlying that annual accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Foundation's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Foundation's financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer which are based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 139, 30.5.1975, p. 1.
(126) More information on the achievements and opportunities of the Foundation can be found at www.eurofound.europa.eu verf.
(127) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(128) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as reports on implementation of the budget.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/95 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.15.5. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.15.6.
3.15.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.15.8.
As part of this type of work, the Court has analysed the accounts, including the hierarchical position and non-compliance of its agencies.
At the Foundation, the head of the administration and finance department is the head of the accounting department.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (129) (130). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing all IT covering all stages of procurement procedures; it launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and submission of electronic tenders (2015).
According to the information provided by the Commission by the end of 2017, the Foundation has put in place certain procedures for invoicing electronic and electronic invitations to tender but has not initiated the submission of tenders by electronic means.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(129) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government in electronic form).
(130) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.)
C 434/96 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up action in relation to the Court's observations in previous years In its 2014 accounts, the Court pointed out that there were too low losses for workers in 2005-2014, which were linked to the transition to the new EU Staff Regulations in 2005.
Although too low losses are different in size (2014: non-compliance with minimum guaranteed values; 2015: application of a false multiplication factor to the nearby), the Court again found too low values (€43350) and several threads (€168930), which concerned 30 active workers and older workers.
Eurofound has corrected all too low losses, but will not demand changes (in accordance with Article 85 of the current Staff Regulations).
The Foundation should re-examine the errors that may have arisen as a result of the transition to the 2005 Staff Regulations and carry out a comprehensive assessment of its remuneration.
In its evaluation report of December 2016, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed that the Foundation should improve project management, in particular as regards management, monitoring and reporting.
The Foundation and IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan.
At EUR 2.8 million and 43% (EUR 2.1 million and 31% respectively in 2015), the 2016 appropriations ratio increased in line with Title III (operational expenditure), which was essentially related to annual projects (research and pilot trials).
The Foundation may make efforts to introduce separate budgetary measures in order to better reflect the multi-annual nature of experience and the inevitable divergences between contracts, supplies and payments.
The Foundation's Financial Regulation does not require an external assessment of its competence.
The Commission's proposal for a new Block Exemption Regulation provides for an assessment to be carried out every five years.
2016 2016 2016 2016 Status 2016 (completed/in progress/present/n.a.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/97 FUNCTIONING ANSWERS 3.15.8.
The Administrative Board is satisfied with the current independence of the accounting officer, in particular with regard to his already existing powers to report directly to the Presidency in accordance with Article 6.1 of the accounting card, as well as with regard to the participation of the Board of Directors in the appointment procedure.
However, the new delegation regulation, which is currently under discussion between the institutions, is likely to assign the role of employment to the board and not to the director.
This will enable Eurofound to re-evaluate the issue of greater accounting independence in the future.
3.15.9.
However, two pilot agencies had serious problems with the software.
In addition, software for electronic procurement is currently only available for open tenders (but not for tenders conducted in accordance with the negotiated procedure) from which Eurofound has very little per year.
Eurofound will therefore continue to monitor developments and be ready to invest in electronic public procurement as soon as it is satisfied with stability and functionality.
DE C 434/98 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.16.
AGENTURE F.R. SATELITARY NAVIGATION SYSTEM (GSA) INTRODUCTION 3.16.1.
Regulation (EU) No 912/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (132) repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 (133) on bodies managing European radio navigation programmes and amending Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 1).
The European GNSS Agency established by Council Regulation (EC) No 3121/2004 officially adopted on 1 January 2007 all the tasks previously entrusted to the Galileo Joint Undertaking. The Agency shall continue to act as the European GNSS Agency under Regulation (EU) No 912/2010, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 912/2010.
In addition, the Commission has commissioned the Agency to operate the European Geostationary Navigation System (EGNOS) by means of an operating agreement.
3.16.2.
The main figures for the Agency (135) are presented in the table.
Table Key figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) (1) Total human resources at 31 December (3) 2017 704 (2) 166 2016 626 160 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The Agency has received EUR 676 million through participation agreements with the Commission.
3. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (136) and the budget implementation reports (137) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
(131) In accordance with Decision 2010/803/EU, the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States
OJ L 276, 20.10.2010, p. 11.
OJ L 246, 20.7.2004, p. 1.
OJ L 196, 24.7.2008, p. 1.
(135) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.gsa.europa.eu verf.
(136) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases as well as other adjustments.
(137) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/99 Revenue statement on conformity of accounts 3.16.4.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.16.6.
Emphasis on facts 3.16.7.
On 15 December 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
The contract was concluded following a public procurement procedure.
One of the tenderers concerned initiated proceedings against the Agency before the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to challenge the outcome of the procurement procedure.
The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union will determine the fairness and regularity of the procurement procedure for the framework contract and any individual and possible payments relating thereto.
The Agency identified the situation in the previous financial statements for 2017 and subsequently concluded that EUR 49 million had been paid in 2017 (7% of the budget for 2017, including amounts received under framework agreements).
Note 3.16.8.
Negotiations on an agreement on details of resignation are ongoing.
The Agency operates both Galileo Security Headquarters (GSMC) and Galileo Ground Stations in the United Kingdom.
The Agency's annual accounts in Chapter ăEvents after the end of the reporting period in the Chapter on 24 January 2018 indicate the Commission's decision to transfer Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) second location from the United Kingdom to Spain.
3.16.9.
COMMENTS ON THE TAKE-UP OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.16.10.
The Agency's seat has been transferred and its mandate has been re-established in 2013.
In 2014, the Agency reviewed its financial rules and transferred its clearing function to the Commission in 2015.
Although these events have led to significant changes in the Agency's procedures, the invoicing system has not been re-approved since 2012 (138).
(138) See also the comment presented in the 2015 follow-up table.
DE C 434/100 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY IMPROVEMENTS AND EXPENDITURE 3.16.11. The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.16.12.
In accordance with their Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (139) (140).
The Commission has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic invitation to tender in the electronic version of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
At the end of 2017, the Agency did not use any of these tools.
External evaluation report 3.16.13.
The mid-term evaluation of Galileo (141) and EGNOS programmes and the functioning of the Agency for the period 2014-2016 (142) was carried out on behalf of the Commission in 2017.
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years.
(139) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to e-government).
(140) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.)
(141) Galileo is the European Union's global satellite navigation system (GNSS).
(142) The Court has not examined this assessment.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/101 EN ANNEX Continuation of the Court's observations from previous years Proper fixed assets (net book value: EUR 1,0 million) are not insured.
The booking systems were last approved in 2012.
Systems have not been adopted due to expected significant changes in procedures and information flows after the Agency's removal.
The new accountant plans a state-of-the-art validation of 2020.
The Agency has developed business continuity plans in France, the UK and the Netherlands.
However, there is no contingency plan for headquarters in Prague and for the entire agency.
The Agency's annual work plan for 2015 was adopted only in March 2015 and its multiannual work programme for 2014-2020 has not yet been adopted.
The adoption of key planning documents risks achieving the objectives of the Agency.
In 2015, the Agency recorded high staff fluctuations among 14 people who lost their jobs and 26 new employees.
In its annual report of November 2016, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that no risk assessment was carried out for the Agency as a whole in 2016 and that the relevant risks to the Agency were not included in the planning documents or in the risk assessment reports.
In addition, IAS concluded that the terminology used for different elements of the performance measurement system is not uniform, which makes it difficult to monitor the results.
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan for 2007-2013: EUR 2.8 million and 46% respectively (EUR 2.5 million and 42% in 2015 respectively) in Title II (administrative expenditure).
DE C 434/102 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.16.10.
The GSA agrees with the Court's observations.
In 2015, the GSA provided the European Commission with financial statements so that the Commission's accounting officer (under DG Budget) provided all services, including the approval of local systems required under Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to the Agency.
The validation approach is currently being discussed and planned within the Directorate-General for Budget services.
3.16.11.
The publication of employment notices on the EPSO platform requires translation into all EU official languages, while English is the only working language of the Agency and the publication of job vacancies in English is considered a preliminary step to ensure that our working language is understood one day.
In addition, the translation of the notice of employment into all EU official languages would entail an additional financial and temporary burden for the Agency so that it does not benefit any of the above mentioned areas as well. Instead, the GSA intends to publish all the notices of employment on a portal which the Agency considers equivalent to EPSO and will provide sufficient transparency for EU citizens.
In addition, the Agency shall publish its notices of employment also on specialised space-related websites.
Electronic communications in TED (issued by the Office for Studies and Studies) are currently used in the GSA whenever indicated in Article 264 of the Implementing Rules.
The Agency also intends to use the TED e-Tendering system to create and publish calls for tenders.
Therefore, GSA is currently cooperating with the Publications Office on the registration and creation of a system account.
With regard to high value tenders (below the thresholds set out in Article 118 (1) FR), the GSA is currently taking the necessary administrative steps to use the ăe-Submission module in the information system ăe-PrIOR (tabled by DG DIGIT) developed by the European Commission to ensure that the electronic system established for the submission of all tenders meets the requirements of HO and AB.
It should be noted that the ăe-Submission module currently only supports open procedures and therefore GSA can only use it for these procedures.
Therefore, the GSA has already organised a first coordination meeting with DG DIGIT to conclude and sign an agreement with DG DIGIT in order to define the framework for the aid and start their implementation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/103 Agencies financed under sub-heading 2 of the multiannual financial framework for sustainable growth: natural resources 3.17.
European Environment Agency (EEA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1.
The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the ădie Agency'), including ăEUA in Copenhagen, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 [9].
The Agency's task is to set up an environmental monitoring network to provide information to the Commission, the European Parliament, the Member States and, more generally, the public on the state of the environment.
3.17.2.
The main figures for the Agency (144) are presented in the table.
Table Main figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) Total staff of 70 staff on 31 December (1) 212 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency; figures given include both the basic budget and other measures.
WRITE UNFORCEMENTED IN 2016 50,5 208 LEGISLATION RIGHT 3.17.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (145) and the budget implementation reports (146) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
OJ L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 1.
(144) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.eea.europa.eu verf.
(145) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases as well as other adjustments.
(146) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/104 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.17.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.17.6.
3.17.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.17.8.
As part of this type of work, the Court has analysed the accounts, including the hierarchical position and non-compliance of its agencies.
The Director of the Agency's accounting department shall be the Head of Administrative Services.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET'S HOLDING AND EXPERIENCE OF EXPENDITURE 3.17.9. The EEA concluded that one of the European thematic centres (ETS for inland, rail and maritime transport) implemented the 2016 Action Plan with significant disruptions.
Therefore, the Commission did not recognise certain results and rejected part of the costs raised by the SEC.
The correction of the amount of the final payment l shall also not preclude further improvement of financial control and results in respect of grants which are transferred to SETs.
3.17.10.
Several companies were identified in several procurement procedures.
The Agency has used several calls for tenders which do not contain minimum requirements for economic and financial performance with regard to the selection criteria.
Therefore, on the basis of these criteria, contrary to their objectives, it cannot be established whether the tenderer fulfils the necessary conditions for the performance of the contract.
3.17.11.
Price competition in certain high-value tenders was based on offers on certain day profiles rather than on the expected time of performance.
Framework agreements have been concluded with one tenderer, although a renewed call for competition between different tenderers to achieve better results for individual applications.
3.17.12.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (147) (148). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing comprehensive IT documentation covering all stages of procurement procedures.
3.17.13.
In particular, the decisions taken in the minutes of the selection panel were not sufficiently taken into account.
The criteria applied at each stage of the selection procedure and the role of individual members of the selection panel should be defined in greater detail in order to increase transparency and equal treatment of candidates.
(147) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government in electronic form).
(148) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/105 317.14.
The Agency publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which means transparency and publication not only and allows citizens to familiarize themselves with employment notices issued by various European institutions and agencies. The main reason why the Agency has requested is the high translation costs for EPSO and the translation into all EU official languages.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.17.15
In order to implement the Copernicus Management Agreement concluded with the Commission, the Agency has undertaken a number of legal commitments related to Copernicus before receiving advance payments from the Commission.
Although these commitments have been the subject of an exceptional report signed by the Director of the Agency, this approach violates the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
C 434/106 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years In 2016, the Agency updated its security concept, but many other internal procedures are obsolete.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) carried out an economic performance assessment on the preparation of the 2015 Environmental Status Report (SOER).
In 2014, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor for the purchase of software and licences and related IT and advisory services.
In 2016, the Agency used this framework agreement to acquire a software licence of a total value of EUR 442 754.
This order concerned the renewal of the software license provided by the exclusive Canadian recuperator (112 248 euro).
In this case it was not justified to use the framework agreement which led to its conclusion. 2016 2016 Status for 2016 (closed/expired/infinite/n.d.) Closed n.a. 2016
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/107 REPLY OF THE ACCOUNTING AGENCY 3.17.8. The Agency has examined the Court's observations with the clearance assessor and is convinced that functional non-compliance results from the fact that the Account Officer is a high-wage worker (AD 12) and has direct access to the Management Board.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY HOLDER AND THE EXPERIENCE OF EXPENDITURE 3.17.9.
The Agency encourages the Court to further improve the management of the ETS network in both financial and operational controls.
In order to prevent a repetition in 2017 of the problem that occurred in the CIS with regard to internal, waiter's and marine resources, this task was removed from the annual action plan and transmitted to the Agency no later than 2017.
The Agency shall endeavour to maintain the current level of control of grants carried out under SETs.
The Agency stresses that during 2017, it has amended the requirements for assessing the financial performance of tenderers and that it encourages tenderers to provide information on the financial indicators (Liquidit no, Solvency and Rentabilit) and that, in accordance with Article 147 (1) (a) of the rules of application (AB), a minimum turnover is required which must correspond to at least twice the fixed annual value of the contract.
The Agency would like to reiterate that the decision to offer a legal framework to individual economic operators was made consciously and taking into account the fact that competition is limited to relevant benchmarks, as well as the nature and complexity of the services provided.
When awarding individual candidates on the basis of the framework, the Agency shall take into account not only the dates agreed in the contract but also the number of days necessary to carry out the tasks in order to calculate the added value of the budgetary resources allocated to the specific tasks.
Only then will negotiations begin with the contractor on the details of his offer, and will always ensure that the best quality and price is achieved.
In the event of the reopening of the tendering procedure, the Agency shall not have the power to negotiate further tenders submitted by tenderers.
In accordance with the decision of the Governing Board of 9 November 2015 to introduce an obligation in the EEA to carry out electronic procurement procedures, it introduced certain electronic invoicing procedures in 2014 and is currently applying this module for all its procedures and from 1 January 2015 for all general tenders.
The integration of electronic tenders started at the beginning of December 2017 and the first call for tenders in which this module was applied was launched on 18 June 2018 (EEA/COM/18/002 on the provision of publishing services by the EEA).
The Agency takes note of the Court's observations and confirms that it is currently adapting its selection/selection procedures on the following issues: (a) the implementation of the various stages (selection, selection, application procedure and written adaptation) is best specified in the relevant documents (not only by date). (b) As regards the questions submitted and the initial selection stage, the answers that can be expected are systematically developed. (c) In order to improve reporting, the electronic (paper) procedure is introduced.
3.7.1.4.
EPSO rejected the publication to the Agency, together with the justification that the precondition that all job offers must be translated into all official languages is not met.
However, the Agency shall not use either the resources or resources to respond to EPSO's request.
In this case, not only translate all job offers, but also prepare applications in all official languages, which entails unacceptable high additional costs.
Therefore, like most other EU agencies, the Agency has considered an alternative to the EPSO website and has been using its website for the same purpose since May 2018; it is a website created and maintained by the network of EU agencies in the workplaceb ăAgentcies Job Advertising Board.
In addition, LinkedIn uses its own website and Facebook websites to ensure the best possible dissemination.
DE C 434/108 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.17.15
Prior to the conclusion of the Copernicus revenue agreement with DG GROW, the Agency noted that the pre-financing conditions are not in line with the Financial Regulation (Article 7 AR of the 2014 Financial Regulation).
DG GROW's reply was understandable, but DG BUDG, who is responsible for preparing the standard template, refused to change the participation agreement.
Following the entry into force of the Participation Agreement, the Agency continued to draw attention to the problems and explained that it was regularly forced to apply exceptions in order to continue its operational activities, which eventually led DG GROW to change the conditions for pre-financing the financing agreement in August 2017 and to make an additional advance payment in November 2017.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/109 3.18.
EUROPEAN FISHING SUPERVISION AGENCY (EFCA) INTRODUCTION 3.18.1.
The European Fisheries Control Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Vigo was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 775/2007 [9].
3.18.2.
The main figures for the Agency are shown in the table (150).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 17 total staff on 31 December (2) 72 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations. (2) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WORDS in 2016 10 64 RIGHT TO PREPARE 3.183.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (151) and the budget implementation reports (152) f not in the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the rule of law and regularity of the underlying assumptions in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 128, 21.5.2005, p. 1.
(150) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.efca.europa.eu.
(151) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(152) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as calculations.
DE C 434/110 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The judgment on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.18.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.18.6.
3.18.7.
Internal Audit Service reports and external evaluation reports 3.18.8.
In November 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented to the Agency a report on the monitoring and management of projects (including project monitoring) and their management (including project monitoring) (November 2017) (153).
The Agency and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan.
3.18.9.
An external evaluation of the Agency (154) was carried out on behalf of the Management Board in 2017.
The Agency has drawn up a plan for the implementation of these recommendations.
(153) The Court has not examined this work.
(154) The Court has not examined this assessment.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/111 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY The Agency shall take note of the Court's report.
DE C 434/112 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under sub-heading 3 of the multiannual financial framework - Security and citizenship 3.19.
The European Union Agency for Enforcement Training and Training ("the Agency') established in Budapest was established by Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council (155), which repeals and replaces Council Decision 2005/681/JHA (156).
3.192.
The table below shows the main figures for the Agency (157).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 9 Total staff on 31 December (1) 53 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WRITE OF UNFORCEMENT IN 2016 10 51 LEGISLATION LAW 3.19.3.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (158) and the budget implementation report (159) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts; (c) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the financial and financial situation of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer based on the international accounting bases.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
OJ L 256, 1.10.2005, p. 63.
(157) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found at www.cepol.europa.eu verf.
(158) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(159) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/113 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.19.5. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.19.6.
3.19.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.19.8.
In 2014, the Agency shall delegate its clearing function to the Commission.
In addition, the Agency's seat was transferred in 2014 and re-defined in 2016.
Although these events have led to changes in the Agency's procedures, the invoicing system has not been re-approved since 2013.
In December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement with a contractor worth EUR 1.6 million and a period of four years to ensure fixed-term working time.
The only criterion of competition in the procurement procedure was the price.
A framework agreement with several companies selected on the basis of price and quality criteria would be better in terms of timely provision of quality services.
3.19.10.
On 29 March 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
3.19.11.
The Agency shall publish employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.19.12.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (160) (161). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing all IT covering all stages of procurement procedures; it launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and submission of electronic tenders (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS 3.19.13.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service submitted a report assessing the needs, planning and budgeting of training activities at the Agency (162).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
(160) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government in electronic form).
(161) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the electronic administration (ăe-Government on electronic administration)
(162) The Court has not analysed the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/114 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years Both EUR 140 055 and 30% (2015: EUR 212 456 and 49%) of the appropriations for the following financial year were high in Title II (support expenditure).
The diversity of workers is very high, which can affect the maintenance of economic activity and the sustainability of the agency, which will go through the tasks set out in its work programme.
Between 2013 and 2016, the number of employees from the host country increased from 1 to 16, representing 31% of the total number of employees in 2016.
The low number of applications from other Member States is the correction factor applied to the cost of remuneration for the host country (69%) and to competition with another EU institution, which is also located in Budapest.
Year 2016: 2016: review (completed/permanent/n.a.) n.a. In progress
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/115 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.19.8.
CEPOL agrees with the Court's observations.
In 2014, CEPOL submitted to the European Commission the financial statements so that the Commission's accounting officer (under DG Budget) provided all services, including the approval of local systems, required under Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to the agencies.
The validation approach is currently being discussed and planned within the Directorate-General for Budget services.
3.19.9.
The Agency took note of the Court's observations but disagrees with them.
The selection criteria are included in the technical specifications and tenderers who were unable to meet the criteria are excluded.
The decision to grant a single framework agreement is based on the experience and specific characteristics of the national labour market.
The Agency took note of the Court's observations.
Brexit was interviewed during meetings of the expert group and the discussions in NAPO (the Agency Network of Procurement Representatives) and IALN (the Agency's Legal Network) and the communications submitted by the Commission were closely monitored.
The risks to CEPOL have been found to be low, but have not been officially documented.
The costs of translating notices into all EU official languages, as required by the publication on the EPSO website, are considered to be too high, taking into account the expected benefits.
From 2018, CEPOL will publish all open jobs also on the workplace, which is available to the agency developed by the network of EU agencies.
The Agency took note of the Court's observations and welcomed the progress made in the electronic submission of tenders in cooperation with DG DIGIT.
3.19.13.
The Agency stresses progress in the implementation of the Action Plan, with two of the four recommendations being assessed by internal audit services as being implemented.
DE C 434/116 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.
INTRODUCTION 3.20.1.
The European Asylum Support Office (hereinafter referred to as "the European Asylum Support Centre') (hereinafter referred to as "Adas B bear', including ăEASO near Valletta) was established by Regulation (EU) No 439/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (163) to support practical cooperation in the field of asylum and to support Member States in implementing their European and international commitments to the protection of persons at risk.
From 2015, B supports Greece and Italy in the context of the migration crisis B in Greece and Italy.
3.20.2.
Table 1 presents the main figures for B for vibrations (164).
Table 1 Main figures for the 2017 budget (EUR million) (1) 79 staff at 31 December (2) 200 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall consist of officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by B.ro. The European Parliament and the Council proposed by the Council TO COMPLETE THE SPECIALITY OF THE COURT not subject to discussion in 2016, 53 125 COMPLETING THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION 3.20.3.
(a) the annual accounts B of the incomplete accounts, which shall include the annual accounts[165] and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (166) f.r. of the financial year ending on 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts referred to in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the B financial statement invaluable on 31 December 2017 presents, in all material respects, B's financial and financial situation unlimited by 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending on 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's authorising officer which are based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 132, 29.5.2010, p. 11.
(164) For more information on the possibilities and possibilities of B, please refer to www.easo.europa.eu.
(165) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(166) The budget implementation reports shall include estimates of revenue and expenditure as well as reports on implementation of the budget.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/117 The rule of law and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts of 3.20.5. According to our assessment of the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments The basis for a failed decision on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.6.
Points 3.20.9 to 3.20.31 describe significant and systematic infringements of the B.4ros financial rules and other payment rules, in particular with regard to payments made in connection with public procurement and recruitment procedures.
The cumulative error resulting from irregular payments shall mean at least EUR 7,7 million or 10,3% of the total payments made by B unlawfully in 2017.
Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.7.
It follows from our assessment that the payments underlying the financial statements for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are to a large extent defective due to the importance of the facts described in section ăBasic • Failed judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements.
Emphasis on facts 3.20.8.
Since the end of 2017, the human resources situation in B has deteriorated dramatically.
At management level B, four out of ten managerial positions and 18 out of 27 managerial positions were not occupied.
In the department ăAdministration did not occupy three in four department heads, and ten department heads were not occupied, which meant a major challenge.
In addition, 129 temporary staff were employed at the end of May 2018 but 78 were still open.
Of the contract staff, 71 were employed and 13 remained open.
B there is currently no administration to fill so many job vacancies (see Table 2).
Overall, this situation has deteriorated significantly at the current level.
DE C 434/118 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Table 2 Organisms B.4ros at the beginning of June 2018
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/119 COMMENTS ON THE JUSTICE AND RULES OF PAYMENT AND THE RESTRUCTURING OF INTERNAL CONTROLS The nature of its options poses a major risk to B not only for 3.20.9.
From 2016, B is extremely important to extend the scope of tasks and opportunities to provide operational and technical support to Member States in the context of the migration crisis.
This reflects the increase in the budget from EUR 19 million in 2016 to EUR 79 million after the second revision of the budget in 2017.
The number of procurement procedures increased from 87 in 2015 to 140 in 2017.
Payments increased by 255% from 2,578 in 2015 to 8 381 in 2017.
3.20.10.
B is not one of the few institutions of the European Union that has several locations.
In addition to Malta's headquarters with 179 statutory staff, B.4ro manages two major support activities in Greece and Italy, involving 747 experts from Member States and associated countries in 2017, 202 cultural intermediaries (dolmeter), 178 temporary workers and 21 B.4ros statutory staff in 2017.
3.20.11.
As the Court has already stated in its Special Report No 6/2017 ăThe EU's response to the refugee crisis: the Hotspot approach is not necessary for Member States to provide sufficient resources.
Effectiveness is particularly vulnerable to the fact that Member States send their experts for a very short period of time (six to eight weeks).
The extraordinary operational challenges of the migration crisis have not been hindered by a robust governance structure and effective internal control 3.20.12.
In 2015, when Member States took action to support Greece and Italy in the face of insufficient resources for posting.
B had already been unable to fill the posts provided for in his establishment plan.
Since 2014, the Court regularly reiterates its observation that B is unable to maintain a high turnover of workers.
The Court has repeatedly stressed in its previous reports that this situation poses a serious risk for achieving the objectives set out in the annual and multiannual work programmes.
Despite repeated attempts (36 recruitment procedures and 100 new Vertridges in 2017), B failed to recruit and maintain workers in good faith (see also paragraph ă emphasising the circumstances in point 3.20.8).
3.20.13.
The extraordinary operational challenges of the migration crisis have not been hindered by a sound governance structure.
The Administrative Board has not set up an internal audit unit in B which is not subject to internal control and activities in Greece and Italy have not been subject to internal audit.
By the end of 2017, only limited budgetary supervision was addressed by the Administrative Board.
3.20.14.
In B there is no internal legal service or legal documents systematically within the company.
B does not clearly specify who is entitled to order any legal matter outside, any law firm and under what conditions.
Although B does not have at least eight different law firms, there is a lack of comprehensive list of all relevant Vertrags, cases and opinions.
3:20.15.
Legal services are not adequately provided in B not only to defend B's interests but not to protect the interests of natural persons.
Appropriate procedures to protect against conflicts of interest are not always effective.
In general, the use of external means limits the possibility of resolving disputes before bringing a complaint.
3.20.16.
As regards the situation described in paragraphs 3.20.13 to 3.20.14, B is not obliged to take risks of financial loss and reputation.
These cases are currently under internal investigation B not.
Numerous significant infringements resulting from the lack of internal control Payment for additional services 3.20.17.
In 2017, additional allowances of EUR 7.7 million were granted in H.H.he.
As no competitive procurement procedure was carried out, the Court found that the additional service contract in Greece was incompatible with the rules in respect of 2016.
However, in 2017 under this incompatible contract B has not yet made a payment of EUR 4.8 million in H of the imbalance.
DE C 434/120 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.18.
The procurement procedures for ancillary services (the amount of payments in 2017: EUR 1.0 million) carried out in Malta in 2017 were unacceptable (e.g. short time limits for the submission of tenders, lack of transparency in case of late payments), which in turn distorted competition under one of the main public procurement rules in this respect.
Therefore, the procedures had to be repeated several times as no offers were received.
3.20.19.
There is insufficient control of compliance with national rules on temporary employment contracts, which created serious financial and reputational risks for company B not belonging to that company.
In addition, the examination of the evidence concerning working time for temporary workers and the irregularities found showed significant shortcomings.
Payments to employees 3.20.20.
In 2017, staff-related payments amounted to EUR 13.5 million. The Court found that four of the 14 recruitment procedures were serious.
3.20.21.
For example, B did not publish a vacancy notice to fill the post of senior advisor, but directly on the basis of the reserve list drawn up by the head of department.
Time limits were not always justified due to the number of notifications received within the prescribed time limit.
3.20.22.
Certain procedures for hiring AD staff were not appropriate for the grade concerned.
In the case of a procedure for filling a management position in the administrative department, the employment notice was more restrictive than in the case of the same positions in other departments.
In the case of a subsequent procedure, the suitability of candidates has not been adequately documented.
Payments for rentals and related construction works 3.20.23.
In 2017, the total rent for all companies B in different locations amounted to EUR 2 million.
The Court found that B did not carry out an appropriate analysis of the local market, but signed an extension of its headquarters in Malta and several new Bs •ros in Athens, Lesbos and Chios.
3:20.24.
In June 2017, B in Lesbos signed a lease agreement for B. Roflchen.
It also accepted a non-competitive agreement with the owner.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The value of the works contract (EUR 0.7 million) increased several times during the first months of the lease.
Large-scale investment in rented buildings involves serious financial and operational risks.
3:20.25.
In 2018, B in Chios decided to conclude a lease agreement and related construction works.
At present, it is about reducing the financial risks associated with purchasing.
Payment for travel expenses 3.20.26.
In 2016, the Court considered that the contract for tourism services worth EUR 4 million was incompatible with the rules.
The contract was awarded to a tenderer who did not meet all the selection criteria.
In 2017, the bank continued to make payments of EUR 1,5 million on the basis of this illegal order.
3:20.27.
The Commission therefore concludes that this measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU.
This case is currently being analysed by B not only internally but also internally.
Other payments 3.20.28.
In addition, other services such as cleaning services, security services, interpretation and consultancy services, based on public procurement, were systematically disrupted by the same services.
The Court has identified significant amounts in relation to the assessment of needs, the preparation of specifications, the selection of the type of contract, the procurement procedures used, the time limits for the submission of tenders, the evaluation and award procedures (i.e. the weighting of the price criteria in relation to the quality criteria), the changes and downtimes of Vertragen, the presentation of costs and the verification of the services provided.
These measures have an impact on the basis of competition and on the transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination of tenderers.
The following points give some examples of the angels mentioned above.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/121 3.20.29.
In 2017, the company directly awarded consultancy services related to the implementation of the Action Plan in the Greek islands.
The contract was awarded to a previously selected economic operator who did not benefit from any of the procurement procedures provided for in the Financial Regulation.
Therefore, the procurement procedure and all related payments (EUR 992000) were incompatible with the requirements.
3:20.30.
In 2016, B not only changed his contract with the law firm, but also raised it to EUR 259000 in 2018.
As regards the contract in 2017, payments of EUR 98332 were made in H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.
Changes and payments concerning these advisory services were therefore incompatible with the rules.
3.20.31.
The implementation of the agreement concluded in 2013 (value: EUR 120 000, raised to EUR 132 000 in 2017) in connection with the organisation of four to six international hotel events over a period of four years was not in line with the original subject-matter of the agreement.
Instead, B did not feehr 50 smaller events benefited from the agreement.
The Treaty has therefore not been enforced.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.20.32
In accordance with the agreements concluded between the European Union and the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein (also known as the "Associated Member State') concerning participation in B. Ro, the Associated States are fully involved in the work of B.ros and are entitled to help B.ros.
In 2016, the Commission received financial assistance to ensure an adequate capatic structure in Greece, to support the implementation of the European Union and partner countries and to significantly accelerate relocation in order to reduce the current high burden on Greece.
All these activities may be of an independent kind, e.g. supporting activities of common interest.
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on external staff and other management expenditure in support of the "Maritime affairs and fisheries' policy area and management expenditure in support of the "Maritime affairs and fisheries' policy area of the "Maritime affairs and fisheries' policy area.
However, he did not take these requests into account in the calculation of the betrifications of the associated countries.
If this Beitrange included, the associated country paid 0.5 million euros more.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years.
C 434/122 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 Status of corrective actions (completed/in progress/present/n.a.) In progress (1) n.a. (2) During the implementation of the Trend of the ANNEX Follow-up action in connection with the Court's observations from previous years All payments were made in 446 (18%) after the deadlines laid down in the Financial Regulation.
In accordance with the decision of the Executive Director, participants in meetings organised by B may not be classified in one of three categories (A, B or C) for reimbursement.
The number of participants who were considered to be recommended for refund in category ăA increased from 61 % in 2013 to 69% in 2014.
Two of the three tenderers who participated in the public procurement procedure for tourism services under the framework contract for the provision of services of EUR 4 million for the period 2016-2020 were asked to provide additional information on the same selection criteria.
Therefore, the framework agreement and payments based on it in 2016 amounting to EUR 920 561 in H do not comply with the requirements.
2016 Expires in 2017 (3)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/123 The Court's comments The Framework Agreement of a period of a quarter of a year, worth EUR 3.6 million for additional services related to the management of the migration crisis, was granted directly in February 2016.
The framework agreement was awarded to an economic operator selected in advance without applying the procurement procedure provided for in the EU Financial Regulation and is therefore not in line with the relevant EU rules and payments under that agreement in 2016, amounting to EUR 592 273, amounting to EUR 592 273, are not in line with the requirements.
In August 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [4].
The total value of the framework agreement for four distributed and presented lots (Lose 2-5) was EUR 60 million for four years.
However, the contractor fulfilled the financial requirements for the selection criteria (EUR 1 million annual turnover) for only two years from the previous three years; in the second year an agreement was reached with the joint organisation whereby EUR 1 million of turnover was transferred to the contractor (s).
The extraordinary European Council of 23 April 2015 and the ten-point migration plan adopted by the Foreign and Internal Affairs Ministers of 20 April 2015 called on Member States to ensure that all migrants have access to fingerprints.
This required the Greek State to purchase and supply 90 fingerprint scanners and 90 compatible computers (equipment) of EUR 1.1 million under a grant agreement concluded between the Commission and B not only.
In July 2017, equipment was sent to hotspots in February and early March 2016 and its objective was achieved only in July 2017.
Year 2016 Date of correction (completed/in progress/in progress/n.d.)
C 434/124 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN The Customer may request written explanations on the main elements of prices or costs that appear to be extremely low and may give the tenderer the opportunity to submit observations (5).
In its evaluation report of October 2016, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) underlined the lack of adequate planning of procurement procedures for administrative expenditure and the lack of both supervision of procedures and shortcomings in individual procurement applications contained in mutual administrative assistance.
In 2016, the company encountered various challenges in its operational environment, which meant not only a significant increase in its budget and its tasks, but also a significant increase in the number of predgs, the renewal of the accounting composition with several transitional periods and the introduction of a paperless system.
This situation, significantly changed and unstable, was not compensated by the revalidation of the invoicing system, nor by the introduction of the system of interim payments ex post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post
In 2014, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including B.ros), the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor for the purchase of software licences and maintenance and support services.
In 2016, a payment of EUR 534 900 was made to the contractor of the framework agreement.
For the Commission, the results of study B for the period 2011-2014 have been subject to an external evaluation, which was presented in the final report in December 2015.
Since the Board of Directors has been extended by its powers, B is currently not in a position to implement an action plan which was agreed with the Governing Board in June 2017.
2016 2016: 2016: 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year:
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/125 EN Court's observations B not only purchased and built 65 containers worth a total of EUR 852136 to be used as mobile hotspots for Greek and Italian hotspots.
VAT refunds for 2014 (180919 euro) and 2015 (245 960 euro) were still available at the end of 2016.
For Title II (administrative expenditure) in 2015, EUR 1 076 583 and EUR 36.9% respectively, the appropriations for the following financial year amounted to EUR 2,5 million and 43.9% respectively.
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Employment report' and expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Employment report' and "Employment report' and "Employment report' and "Employment report' and "Employment report' and "Employment report' and "Employment report'.
(2) Internal control standards have been transformed by the Commission into an internal control framework.
(3) A new agreement on the provision of travel services was signed in March 2018.
(4) A new agreement on the provision of ancillary services to EASO in Greece was signed in March 2018.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
(6) In September 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1499 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2017 to 25 January 2020.
(7) The invoicing system was approved in May 2018.
The purpose of the ex post-post-post-post-post-search for Vorggen are private audit firms.
(8) B does not plan to introduce systematic checks for all offers of EUR 135 000 from 1 January 2018.
So far, none of them have crossed that threshold.
(9) Insurance undertakings have not submitted the tenders required by B no later than 31 December 2015.
(10) B did not ask the Maltese tax authorities to refund VAT by 31 December 2017.
In 2017, VAT was recovered in the total amount of EUR 203277 (2014 and 3rd quarter of 2016).
DE C 434/126 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS B.R.D., R.R., thank you to the Court for the most useful report.
At the same time, B is unable to express gratitude to the Court for its most difficult situation, in which B was not in the reporting period due to the massive extension of its tasks: for this he was given the task of supporting Member States and participating in EU-level initiatives, including redistribution and clarification of the EU-T not only, but also increasing the budget, increasing the number of payments and increasing the number of procurement procedures (both in terms of number and complexity).
Moreover, B does not take up many managerial positions (directors of departments, heads of departments, managers of sectors).
In this reply, B will not reflect on some of the Court's observations, but generally adopts the report and the findings contained therein.
3.20.6. and 3.20.13.
With regard to systematic infringements in the B sector of the unregulated sector, under the new direction of B, he soon began to take the necessary steps to ensure that compliance with the rules is prioritised and will become a central element of culture and in the course of all its activities.
This includes objective, honest and open internal control, ăself-assessment.
B disagrees with the Court's finding that the supervisory and internal control structures that will be responsible for B have not paid any attention in the past to what is necessary in order to ensure adequate law and integrity.
In this respect, too, B is reluctant to state that the construction of structures and procedures will have an absolute priority under the new leadership in terms of systematic accountability and legal order (and adequately predictable and comprehensive reporting).
3.20.6., 3.20.8. and 3.20.12.
The Court rightly points out that the human situation in B has not deteriorated and is insufficient and that it also constitutes an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal control system.
The current human situation is one of the main challenges of solving the problems identified by the Court in its observations, which can largely be seen as a result of the lack of resources in structural and regulatory work.
B is unable to solve this problem directly and on the basis of a robust establishment plan that precedes the assessment of needs, carries out urgent recruitment procedures to fill management posts and other important (operational and administrative) managerial positions.
Moreover, B is not only trying to solve the problem of staff fluctuations, but also stresses that, compared with the relatively high cost of living in Malta, the low adjustment factor plays an important role in this regard, but also acknowledges that greater efforts are needed to improve the satisfaction of workers.
Some activities, such as flexible working conditions, improved internal communication and organisation of events for employees, have already been undertaken.
3.20.9. and 3.20.19.
The Court correctly describes the difficulties and, in absolute terms, the rapid increase in financial transactions and procurement procedures.
These figures speak in clear language, but basically reflect the differences in finances and in the award of contracts.
These figures do not take into account other circumstances and measures that may prove convincing, such as two aspects: the addition of externally funded experts (Articles 204 and 287 of the Financial Regulation), which are a heavy burden for the public procurement sector.
In the coming years, further deterioration can be expected as B is unable to assist [medical] experts in carrying out tasks related to medical information on origin.
... market difficulties and constraints related to our geographical areas.
In the rural regions of Italy and Greece, the conditions for a competitive market in services and products are not very good.
Moreover, B is not a typical customer with regard to the scope of works contracts in Malta, as in most cases they lack capacites to meet the requirements of larger B infringements are not typical of Malta's economic operators.
3.20.10.-3.20.12. and 3.20.19.
This feature is mostly related to the balance of large administrative tools, as well as to complex life in order to introduce efficient internal control structures.
It should also be noted that B is extremely dependent on contractors because of their operational capacity, geographical coverage and (as the Court rightly states) restrictions on the use of experts from Member States.
This is a factor that increases the scope of procurement and financing tasks (including decentralised financial actors) because in Greece, Italy and Cyprus:
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/127 and FE in Greece and Italy (Leasingvertrigge, Vertrauge, Security, Waterway, Verträge, Verträge, Verträgsung, Verwährung und unllichen Vertrauge, for example on the provision of ancillary services and interpretation services).
In this case, too, employees have a key role to play, and now (recognizing the multiplication factor due to their function as agencies with several locations) it is possible to allocate the resources necessary to ensure accuracy and quality in public and financial procurement cycles, as well as compliance with law and order, as well as to ensure the decentralisation of the consulting firm.
3.20.14., 3.20.15. and 3.20.16.
B is unable to accept and accept the need for internal legal knowledge.
Moreover, B disagrees with the statement that legal services must always be strictly represented by B's interests not only of individuals (which, however, is not mutually exclusive).
B disagrees with the fact that the inclusion of external legal services has not been adequately controlled.
The Court notes in its report that internal investigations are continued and the results are transmitted to the Court.
3.20.17. and 3.20.26.
B there is no doubt that there is no doubt that this is not possible.
These corrective measures were undoubtedly triggered following the Court's finding of irregularities in its 2016 annual report (entry into the Court's report in September 2017).
Unfortunately, however, in 2017, due to the deadlines and the fact that B soon after the finding of unlawfulness, B soon replaced Vertridge, there actually took place payments resulting from the contract.
3.20.18. and 3.20.19.
B disagrees with the observations and recalls that these problems can be seen as a result of insufficient resources and internal control and management factors, which the Court sets out in its report.
3.20.23.-3.20.25.
As the Court states in its report, an internal investigation is currently underway.
3.20.29.-3.20.31.
3.20.32.
As regards the last paragraph of the report (43) B is not convinced that B is unable to meet its commitments in 2016, as agreed with DG BUDG.
In order to clarify this issue again, in consultation with DG BUDG B, action will soon be taken if DG BUDG amends its previously proposed position.
DE C 434/128 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.21.
ECONOMY CENTER AND DISEASE CONTROL (ECDC) INTRODUCTION 3.21.1.
The European Centre for Disease Control and Monitoring (hereinafter referred to as the "Centrum ădas"), established in Stockholm, was established by Regulation (EC) No 851/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (167).
It also aims to coordinate pan-European networks between actors of major importance in this area.
3.21.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the centre (168).
Table Main figures for Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) 58 Total staff on 31 December (1) 279 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
WORDS in 2016 of 58 260 Law to Practice 3.21.3.
(a) the annual accounts of the Centre, including the annual accounts[169) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (170) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and
In accordance with our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Centre's balance sheet and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
OJ L 142, 30.4.2004, p. 1.
(168) More information on the possibilities and capabilities of the Centre can be found at www.ecdc.europa.eu.
(169) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(170) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/129 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.21.5 from our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.21.6.
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
C 434/130 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Year 2015 2016 2016 Correction status (completed/expired/expired/expired) Completed (1) Closed (2) ANNEX Continuing the Court's observations of previous years The Court has identified various issues concerning the transparency of public procurement procedures, such as the lack of a clear link to the Centre's work programme, insufficient justification for the tightened value of the contract or the lack of an indicative financial indicator (prog) for assessing the financial capacity of the tenderer.
In May 2015, the interim director of the Centre was appointed by a decision of the Management Board.
By 31 December 2016, that post was filled for one year by eight months in accordance with the Staff Regulations.
This was, in particular, available to 15 other implementing rules for other workers.
In its evaluation report of October 2016, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) drew the Commission's attention to the fact that, despite the continuous activities undertaken by the Centre to ignore its internal control of public procurement, there are still significant restrictions on the award of public contracts.
The IAS concluded that the planning and monitoring of procurement procedures are weak and that procurement procedures are not always covered by the annual work programme or financing decision.
In addition, it refers to the Court's report on the Centre's annual accounts for 2015 and to the factors identified affecting the transparency of procurement procedures.
The Centre and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan.
As in previous years, commitments of EUR 7,9 million and 41% (EUR 7,5 million and 42% respectively) were entered into under Title III (operational expenditure).
This appropriation is intended primarily to cover multi-annual projects relating to scientific advice (EUR 2.4 million), supervision (EUR 1.3 million), public health training (EUR 1.4 million) and public health IT applications (EUR 2.1 million).
The Centre may make efforts to introduce separate budgetary measures to better address the multi-annual nature of experience and the inevitable fluctuations between contracts, supplies and payments.
(1) Following the selection procedure, the interim director was appointed Director in 2017.
The Centre has launched new IT tools to improve the planning and monitoring of procurement procedures.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/131 ANSWERS OF THE CENTRE of the Centre shall take note of the Court of Auditors' report.
DE C 434/132 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.22.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
The European Food Safety Committee (hereinafter "the European Food Safety Committee' ("the European Food Safety Committee') established in Parma was established by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council[171).
3.222.
The main figures for Beh in the incomplete population are presented in the table (172).
Table Key figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 81 total staff at 31 December (2) 443 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall consist of officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Current European Parliament and Council.
(a) the annual accounts of the company consisting of the annual accounts[173) and the budget implementation reports (174) f not in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1.
(172) For more information on Beh's achievements and achievements, please refer to the website www.efsa.europa.eu.
(173) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(174) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/133 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.22.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.22.6.
3.22.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.22.8.
The Head of Administration/corporate Services Unit shall be the Head of Beh Invoicing Unit not supported.
In May 2017, on behalf of the nine agencies participating in the tender, Beh did not conclude three framework agreements under the cascade system covering a wide range of financial services.
Although procurement procedures involving the Agency offer a good opportunity to increase administrative efficiency, in the case of contracts where specific services are not known at the time of the call for tenders, framework contracts where each individual contract is again called for to compete are more appropriate to achieve a good level of costs and benefits than framework agreements concluded in the cascade system.
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.22/10.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented an evaluation report evaluating the evaluation procedure for regulated products/evaluation phase for the approval of animal nutrition measures (175).
On 17 December, the Commission adopted a Communication entitled "An action plan to improve health and safety in Europe'.
Persecution of comments from previous years 3.22.11.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years. (175) The Court has not examined these work.
C 434/134 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ADDITEK Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years A clear and comprehensive ex post financial control strategy has not yet been developed which covers all areas of activity and is defined in the scope and scope of these audits.
In its evaluation report of November 2016, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the existing IT project management controls are appropriate, but indicated significant limitations in the management of IT projects.
The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) agreed on a corrective action plan for 2015.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/135 ANSWERS BEH RDE 3.22.4.
The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) confirms the Court's inconsistent opinions on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the accounts.
3.22.8.
In order to ensure the independence of the accounting officer, in 2008, the EFSA Council appointed the Management Board of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) to meet the formal requirements laid down in the financial rules of the European Food Safety Authority.
In order to ensure functional non-compliance of the accounting officer with the performance assessment procedures, the Head of the BUS department shall act as an assessor and the Chairman of the Preparatory Committee shall act as an authorising staff member.
The accounting officer may be revoked at any time by the Management Board before or after the termination of his duties.
3.2.2.9.
For individual invitations to tender in a cascade system, there is no obligation to use the model of individual invitations to tender, and both models may be appropriate depending on the scenario concerned.
The European Food Safety Authority concluded that the individual requirements for standard services referred to in the notice of competition are more appropriate and are used in the statistical services of EFSA, the systematic control of literature and the testing of target groups.
The European Food Safety Authority shall use the cascade model where a long-term contract is first placed.
In particular, in the case of the framework agreement for the provision of external services, it is primarily about: (i) ensuring an adequate understanding of the competences of EFSA; (ii) ensuring a coherent method of providing services; and (iii) ensuring credibility at all levels of administration.
The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) shall exercise control over the budgetary resources allocated to projects carried out under the cascade system by the contractor.
3.22/10.
The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) will implement an action plan for the assessment of regulated products/evaluation phase for the approval of personal protective equipment agreed following the publication of the IAD.
DE C 434/136 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.23.
INTRODUCTION 3.23.1.
The European Institute for Gender Equality (hereinafter referred to as the "Institute ădasa') established in Vilnius was established by Regulation (EC) No 1922/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (176).
3.23.2.
The main figures for the Institute are shown in the table (177).
Table Main figures for the Institute 2017 Budget (million euro) 8 Total staff on 31 December (1) 45 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
WORDS not carried out in 2016 8 45 INFLUENCES OF THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION 3.23.3.
(a) the annual accounts of the institutions consisting of the annual accounts (178) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (1979) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall present as of 31 December 2017 the Institute's balance sheet and financial situation, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which shall be based on recognised international accounting bases.
(177) More information on the achievements and capabilities of the Institute can be found at www.eige.europa.eu verf.
(178) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(1979) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/137 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.23.5. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.23.6.
3.23.7.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion.
The Institute was sued at the end of 2017 in four dispute cases which were brought before the court by the unsuccessful tenderers in connection with the three procurement procedures.
In each of these cases, the applicant submitted an application for annulment of the award decision and for compensation.
The claimed claim for compensation in these four cases amounts to EUR 700.000 and 9% of the Institute's annual budget respectively.
According to the evaluation of the Institute's external lawyer, a position of EUR 75 000 (or 1% of the Institute's annual budget) was entered in order to cover the expected losses.
The judgment given by the Court of First Instance in each of these cases will determine the fairness and regularity of the procedures for the award of public contracts in respect of those contracts and future payments.
In 2016, the Institute organised an open invitation to tender for tourism services.
Descriptions and valuation processes did not provide sufficient guarantee of the best quality of price-performance.
The award formula and the pricing mechanism were not appropriate as they did not allow a proper assessment of the tenders submitted by the tenderers.
The framework agreement was concluded for a period of four years and for EUR 700 000.
In 2017, payments of EUR 137 thousand were made in H.H.he.
3.23.10.
In accordance with their Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (180) (181).
According to the information provided by the Commission by the end of 2017, the Institute has launched certain electronic invoicing procedures but has not put in place an electronic invitation to tender.
3.23.11.
The Institute publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
INTERNAL SERVICE REPORTS 3.23.12.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented an evaluation report on the management of relations with stakeholders and external communication (182) by the EIG.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(180) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to e-government).
(181) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
(182) The Court has not examined this work.
C 434/138 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 Closed DE ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years With EUR 1,7 million and 51% respectively (EUR 2,2 million and 60% respectively in 2015) the ratio of appropriations for the following financial year in Title III (operational expenditure) was still high, which was in principle the subject of research covering the year.
The Institute may use separate budgetary resources to better reflect the multi-annual nature of the contracts and the unavoidable divergences between contracts, supplies and payments.
In 2016, the Institute launched an open call for tender under the Framework Agreement for the maintenance and updating of its instruments and sources of gender statistics, with an amount of EUR 1.6 million.
At the request of the tenderer, the institution explained on its website that the maximum amount for each lot was EUR 800,000.
However, two separate framework agreements with the same tenderer were concluded at EUR 1,6 million per lot, with the possibility of further increasing the number of participants by up to 50% per lot, allowing the institution to deduct up to EUR 4,8 million or three times the amount indicated in the contract notice during the entire duration of the framework contract (up to four years).
In 2016, payments of EUR 87 920 in H whe were made.
In response to the recommendation, the Institute of Nochr signed framework agreements in both cases which reduced the amount of H no more than EUR 800000 (up to 50%).
The invitation to tender under the negotiated procedure with one tenderer for the purpose of the procurement of services for the operation and support of IT tools and databases reduced the price for the use of the three services described to EUR 81 000 (without VAT) and it was found that higher value offers had not been taken into account.
However, after receiving offers for two of the three required benefits, the institution concluded a service contract with a price of EUR 97 410.
A payment of EUR 73 057 of EUR 73 057 was made in 2016.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/139 PL Court's observations In January 2016, the Institute published an external evaluation.
Year 2016 Status of corrective actions (completed/in progress/in progress/n.d.)
DE C 434/140 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF INSTITUTIONS 3.23.8.
The EIG takes note of this.
The EIG has examined the shortcomings and will adapt the tendering procedures, irrespective of the decisions of the General Court in these cases, in order to minimise the risk of potential legal disputes and potential dissatisfaction of rejected candidates.
3.23.9.
The EIG takes note of and stresses that there are internal controls to review and control the prices of air and hotel services offered by the supplier.
The EIG will address this issue within the network of EU agencies in order to exchange best practice examples.
In addition, the Commission expressed its interest in EIGE's participation in a joint tender procedure organised by the Commission services (PMO).
Following the award of the contract, EIGE intends not to lose an existing framework agreement on travel services, accommodation and services.
The full implementation of these modules in the EIGE is expected to take place in the third and fourth quarters of 2018.
Given the limited number of procedures and the high costs associated with services, the EIG decided not to follow this option in terms of economics and efficiency.
In view of the fact that some vacant posts require publication of other jobs in all 24 official EU languages and the fact that certain vacant posts, due to their particular nature, recommend publication of a notice on other jobs, is of the opinion that the channels which are currently using the publication of their job offers provide adequate transparency and publication.
3.23.12.
In line with the recommendations of the preliminary report, the EIGE has drawn up an action plan which is regularly updated and updated.
The agreed deadline for all actions will be set at 31 December 2018 and implementation is already very advanced.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/141 3.24.
European Medicines Agency (EMA) INTRODUCTION 3.24.1
The European Medicines Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in London was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, replaced by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council[183).
3.24.2.
Table Main figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) Total human resources as at 31 December (2) 2017 331 (1) 766 2016 305 768 (1) Permanent budget. The final budget depends on revenue generated in 2017 from salaries and salaries.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (185) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (186) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
(183) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
(184) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.ema.europa.eu.
(185) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(186) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN C 434/142 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.24.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.24.6.
Emphasis on facts 3.24.7.
The Agency in London prepared its preliminary annual accounts and future accounts on the basis of the information available on the date of signature (1 June 2018).
3.24.8.
On 20 November 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
The move to temporary routine cases is planned at the beginning of 2019 and the Agency's financial statements have set up a cost of 18,6 million euros.
3.249.
In addition, the lease agreement provides for the current lease period of the London agency until 2039 without a departure clause.
The rental costs remaining until 2039 amount to EUR 489 million. Of this amount, EUR 465 million is a conditional obligation corresponding to the remaining rental period after the planned transfer of the Agency to Amsterdam.
3.24.10.
COMMENTS ON THE TAKE-UP OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.24.11.
In the Agency, the head of the financial department shall be the head of the accounting department.
3.24.12.
In addition, since 2014, the Agency has been thoroughly restructured and has been entrusted with new, extensive tasks (see paragraphs 3.2.4.15 to 3.24.17). Although these events have led to changes in the Agency's invoicing procedures and system, the invoicing system has not been re-approved since 2013.
The Agency shall publish employment notices on its own website but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/143 3.24.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (187) (188). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing all IT covering all stages of procurement procedures; it launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the submission of electronic tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Agency launched an electronic invitation to tender for certain procedures but not for electronic invoicing and electronic invoicing.
Management of advisory services 3.2.4.15.
The previous year examined how the Agency manages advisory services, including two selected projects for the implementation of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (189) and the Clinical Trial Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (190), which required the establishment of complex EU-wide networks, required a significant development of information technology.
Since the number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan has not been established, which allowed it to build the necessary expertise on its own, the Agency has undertaken to carry out these tasks by consulting firms.
However, the use of consulting companies led to the Agency's critical departure from this external expertise.
3.24.16.
In order to restore control of projects, the Agency has identified which functions are not outsourced but must be performed internally.
In addition, the Agency shall seek not to grant time and resources on the basis of criteria but on the basis of a fixed price.
The Commission has also introduced a more appropriate procedure for approving changes to the project.
3.24.17.
It will take some time to reduce the agency's critical dependence on consulting companies, and the effects of the actions will only be visible over the years.
One of the two major projects carried out in 2016, a pharmacovigilance project (EudraVigilance database with unintended pharmaceutical effects) was completed in 2017 with additional costs of around EUR 0.5 million.
There is still work on the clinical trial project. The start date has not been set, but in 2017 the budget has been increased by another EUR 4.9 million (191).
Originally scheduled to start operations Scheduled date of start-up 31 December 2016. Incompatible/planned start-up date 31 December 2017. Budget (Euro) As of 31 December 2016 Third quarter of 2015 4 quarter 2017 4 quarter 2017 3.7 million 14.3 million 1 quarter 2017 3 quarter 2018 Undefined 6.1 million 24.3 million Eudravigilance Database on unsatisfactory effects on medicinal products Clinical considerations and EU database INTERNAL BUDGET REPORTs as at 31 December 2017 (Euro) 14,8 million 29,2 million 324.18.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service discussed how the Agency implemented the Pharmacovigilance Regulation[192)[193). The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
(187) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government in electronic form).
(188) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the electronic administration (ăe-Government on electronic administration)
OJ L 316, 14.11.2012, p. 38.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
(191) In 2018, the project was combined with a new project (SUSAR. CTIS).
Regulation (EU) No 658/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision No 91/67/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/78/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12).
(193) The Court has not analysed this work. DE C 434/144 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 OVERVIEW OF COMMENTS FROM THE FORMER YEARS 32.4.19.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/145 PL ANNEX Follow-up action in relation to the Court's observations in previous years The Agency's Regulation on the powers set deadlines for the recovery of amounts and related payments by the Agency to the most senior national officials ((1). For most of the Court's conclusions, this deadline has not been respected.
In 2014, the Agency carried out an administrative procedure against its employees in the field of information and communication technologies (ICT).
Since the introduction of the new IT invoicing system in 2011, the commitment report has not been sufficiently transparent and is not transparent enough for the Committee.
The Agency has concluded agreements with 25 London hotels on tariffs for expert accommodation, without a competitive tendering procedure.
Therefore, six trade tariff agreements and payments of around EUR 2.1 million in H in 2016 are not in line with the rules.
In 2014, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor for the purchase of software and licences and related IT and advisory services.
In 2016, a payment of EUR 8.9 million was made to the contractor of the framework agreement.
The Agency systematically disagreed with suppliers' offers and did not systematically verify the invoices issued to the contractor of the framework agreement.
C 434/146 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations Since 2014, the Agency has been thoroughly restructured twice, with high and medium positions being allocated internally.
The implementation of key IT and administrative staff has failed, putting the Agency and its potential at a serious risk of instability.
In addition, there is no system for analysing identifiable possibilities, identifying and recruiting relevant staff.
Year 2016 Status of corrective work (completed/in progress/present/n) Completed in 2016. Advisory services In addition, for all agencies within two major projects, the Court examined how the Agency used advisory services.
Parliament and the Council have entrusted the Agency with the implementation of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012) and the Clinical Trial Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 536/2014), which requires the establishment of complex EU-wide networks.
Those tasks were delegated to the Agency on the date on which it is expected to reduce its staff in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement of 2 December 2013 on budgetary discipline.
The number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan has not been established, which allowed it to obtain the necessary expertise in the field of enterprise and information technology development.
Large use of external consultants As only 13 employees were employed by the IT-Delivery Department, the Agency used consulting companies in the field of business analysis, information technology, project management and quality assurance.
In the second quarter of 2016, the agency was 131 on-site consultants and 60 other consultants outside its reputation.
Therefore, since the launch of the projects, the Agency has been cut off from external critical expertise, but does not support a strategy that regulates the use of consultants.
Insufficient control over the development and implementation of the project When in 2012 and 2014 the Agency received new tasks, it did not use the appropriate method of managing projects of this type.
In 2014, a new method was introduced which required a substantial review in September 2016.
Ongoing (see paragraphs [3.24.15-3.24.17])
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/147 PL The Court's observations Several interested parties deviated from the planned procedures or approaches before being approved on the basis of the formal amendment procedure.
All external advisors were closed by mid-2016 on the basis of time and resources, although the results of the project were clearly defined.
Distortion and cost increase During the development of systems, the Agency faced distortions and cost increases.
A number of changes in the size, budget and timing of the projects concerned mainly the repeated adaptations of the system requirements corresponding to the changing needs of the Member States[2].
The table below presents two major projects as examples. Originally scheduled launch date Currently scheduled to launch the primary budget (Euro) Budget on 31 October 2016 (Euro) Eudravigilance-bank on 31 October 2016 (Eudravigilance-bank) on 3 April 2015 4.7 million 14.3 million clinical advice and EU database on 1st quarter of 2017 6.1 million 24.3 million According to the Public Procurement Regulation, the Commission carries out an external evaluation of the Agency and its tasks every ten years.
For such a long period of time, the parties concerned shall not be required to receive timely notification of the performance.
Year in which the adjustment was made (completed/in progress/n.d.) 2016 In progress (1) Regulation on the powers of the Agency, Article 10 (1) and Article 11 (1).
2. Telematic bodies in which Member States are represented to develop and approve requirements for future information systems.
DE C 434/148 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.24.8.
3.24.11.
The Agency shall comply with the financial rules of the EMA: the Court of Auditors shall already be appointed by the Governing Board pursuant to Article 50 (1) of the EMA Financial Rules and the Administrative Board shall adopt a detailed charter of the tasks and responsibilities of the Liberator.
This disagreement is still transparent in terms of full effectiveness, signed by the authorising officer and the Administrative Director.
The approval of the Agency's invoicing systems was launched in March 2018.
3.24.13.
EMA offers transparency and publications, as it publishes or has access to them depending on its profile on the EMA website, LinkedIn, agency offices or specialist publications.
As a result, the EMA is very interested in candidates across the EU and more than 1000 candidates have participated in some competitions.
In addition, the general implementing rules for the recruitment and use of temporary staff shall state that the decisions concerning the selection of temporary staff referred to in Article 2 (f) of the CJR are published only in the Agency's working languages, while the agencies which do not have a permanent working language shall publish the selection decisions in all the official languages of the European Union.
On the basis of a decision of the Executive Director adopted by the Management Board, the working language of the EMA has been English since June 2015.
However, EPSO informed EMA that it still needs to be published on its website so that EMA translates employment notices into all EU official languages and allows access to these language versions on the EMA website.
It should be noted that the tender for posts in all official EU languages has a significant impact on the duration of the competitions and involves higher costs.
3.2.4.14.
By the end of 2017, the Agency registered all procedures above a certain limit by electronic means and all procedures below a certain limit by electronic means.
Although the Agency has not concluded e-invoicing or submission of tenders, in September 2017, the Agency signed an agreement with the European Commission on access to and use of electronic tenders and expects the European Commission to set a deadline.
The Agency confirms that the Court considers that EMA has implemented a number of important actions to respond to the Court's 2016 audit observations on the management of advisory services.
With regard to the two projects in question, it is concluded that due to the complex of the co-system of interests and the system to be built,...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and...and... and.......................and...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
This request for change has been submitted and approved under the portfolio programme. The status of the project has been consulted with the Administrative Board of the EMA.
32.14.18.
The Agency shall take note of this remark.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/149 3.25.
INTRODUCTION 3.25.1.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction ("the Centre') established in Lisbon was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (194).
The Centre's main task is to collect, analyse and disseminate information on drugs and drug addiction in order to collect and publish objective, reliable and comparable information at European level.
3.25.2.
The main figures for the Centre are shown in the table (195).
Table Main figures for Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 16 Total staff at 31 December (2) 111 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Centre.
WRITE OF UNFORCEMENT IN 2016 15 101 LEGISLATION RIGHT 32.5.3.
(a) the Centre's annual accounts, including the annual accounts[196] and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (197) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the documents underlying that financial statement, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Centre's financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on the international accounting bases.
(194) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
(195) More information on the Centre's achievements and capabilities can be found at www.emcdda.europa.eu verf.
(196) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, and a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(197) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.25.6.
3.25.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.10.8.
The observer is the Head of Administration/Corporate Services Guide to the Accounting Department.
3.25/10.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (198) (199). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing all IT covering all stages of procurement procedures; it launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the submission of electronic tenders (2015).
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.25.11.
In 2017, the Internal Audit Service submitted to the Commission a report on the management of data collection, validation and quality assurance (200) by the Centre.
Persecution of comments from earlier years 3.25.12.
(1/98) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government in electronic form).
(299) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.)
(200) The Court has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/151 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years In 2012, the Centre signed a framework agreement of EUR 250 000 in order to be able to sign individual candidates.
At the end of 2015, the total amount of payments granted under this Treaty amounted to EUR 382 181, i.e. the ceiling was increased by 50%.
In the case of two legal frameworks worth EUR 135 000 or EUR 650 000, one of the Centre's officials acted to set up an evaluation committee, decide on accession and sign the Vertragge as an authorised authorising officer.
However, the powers conferred by the authorising officer were limited to EUR 130000 and were not exhausted.
A payment of EUR 35 310 in H whe was made in 2016.
In its review report of January 2016, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed that the Centre must improve the management of IT projects.
In particular, the IAS concluded that there was no long-term overall vision of the strategic IT systems supporting the Centre's central operational system, that the Centre's IT project management methodology was only partially adapted to its needs and that the system requirements management procedure was impossible.
The Observatory and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan for the period 2007-2013.
DE C 434/152 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE OBSERVATION AUTHORITY 3.25.8. The Centre considers that the current organisational structure did not affect the inconsistencies of their accounts.
Rather, this non-compliance has been consistently ensured in accordance with the relevant provisions, in particular by the appointment of clearing officers by the Centre's Board of Directors, the reporting of the functioning and accountability of these officials towards the Management Board and the careful compliance with the rules on the allocation of tasks of the Centre's various financial entities.
In this context, the Centre is prepared to comply with the Court's recommendation, ensuring that appropriate actions are compatible with the organisation's scope and that they are effective and effective.
3.25.9.
The Observatory shall publish its recruitment notices as a standard also by disseminating information on members of its management bodies, national contact points participating in the Reitox programme and EU agencies.
In addition, the most modern competitions run by the Centre are also published on the portal of the Agency "Employment Offers"; the network of EU agencies has developed this common online platform to increase the visibility of the recruitment procedures of the Agency.
In this context, the Centre will launder the costs and benefits of additional publications on the EPSO portal.
The Observatory shall meet the requirements for electronic procurement procedures in accordance with the agreed EU legal framework and the timetable for the introduction of electronic procurement procedures in the EU.
As early as August 2015, in cooperation with the relevant services of the European Commission, the Centre established a technical configuration/ICT tools which inspired electronic invoicing (and which was made available by DG DIGIT of the European Commission to develop the DG DIGIT framework).
In addition, in 2017, the Observatory planned the preparatory actions necessary for the use of the electronic call for tenders and the submission of tenders in electronic form, in accordance with the above legal framework, as from October 2018.
The implementation of this plan is ongoing and the Centre expects it to meet this deadline without serious problems.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/153 3.26.
EUROPEAN F.A.R. AGENCY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION COMPANIES IN THE AREA OF FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE (EU-LISA) INTRODUCTION 3.26.1.
The European Agency for the Operational Management of Information Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (eu-LISA) (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Tallinn and locations in Stra§burg and St. Johann im Pongau was established by Regulation (EU) No 1077/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (201).
The main task of the Agency is the operational management of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), the Visa Information System (VIS) and the European fingerprint comparison system (Eurodac).
3.26.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (202).
Table Key figures for the Agency for 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 total staff at 31 December (2) 152 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WORDS not made in 2016 to the European Parliament and to the Council 82 144 Law to Practice 3.263.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (203) and the budget implementation reports (204) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
OJ L 286, 1.11.2011, p. 1.
(202) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.eulisa.europa.eu verf.
(203) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, a cash flow balance sheet, a table of net changes, and a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(204) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/154 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.26.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.26.6.
3.26.7.
In 2017, the Agency had difficulty in obtaining a sufficient number of tenderers for several medium-value contracts.
3.269.
The Agency currently manages three separate, non-integrated IT systems (SIS II, VIS and Eurodac), which process all data relating to EU policies on freedom, security and justice.
Such an approach would prevent the Agency from achieving economies of scale and synergies between different systems.
The current discussions on extending the mandate of the Agency in the coming years to manage several additional IT systems confirm the increasingly urgent nature of this problem.
The Agency should, in consultation with the Commission and the Member States, conduct a detailed cost-benefit analysis in order to contribute to the discussion on the future strategy for the development of systems.
3.26.10.
The project of construction of the new gebudes on site in Stra§burg has significantly deepened.
Although the Agency had already paid the full price for construction work in 2016, this work had not yet been completed by the end of 2017 and the progress reports on the work that had been carried out concerned only around 70% of the work.
Some of the Agency's staff have already received new information, although work is still ongoing.
In December 2017, the contractor submitted financial proposals to the Agency and lodged a complaint.
The Agency asserts its own right to the contractor (205).
3.26.11.
3.26.12.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (206) as this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing all IT covering all stages of procurement procedures, launching electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
Consulting 3.26.13.
The Agency shall benefit mainly from advisory services related to IT projects by its nature.
According to the Agency's records, IT projects were implemented in 2017 within the framework of the financial and time framework.
Exceptional reports have been prepared for a limited number of projects relating to the maintenance of development infrastructure which do not comply with the schedule of infringement proceedings.
(205) See also the Agency's annual accounts for 2017, Section 2.1.5 ăEvents after the end of the reporting period. (206) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government.).
(207) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/155 3.26.14.
The Agency shall use the outsourcing model to develop and implement IT projects that cover approximately 90% of the relevant contractors' work.
There are three main framework agreements with three consortia, one for each system.
Payments made in respect of these framework agreements in 2017 amounted to EUR 3 million per euro for Eurodac, EUR 16 million per SIS II and EUR 13 million per VIS.
Although all stages of IT projects, from the definition of requirements and intermediate objectives to the start-up of new elements of the system, are owned and controlled by the Agency, the model in which development tasks are outsourced to such sensitive IT systems in this respect carries a serious risk in terms of derogation from economic operators.
This applies to a more limited number of potential operators in the field of activity and security who can cope with these systems and requirements.
3.26.15.
At the same time, a small number of staff in the operational boards, in particular in the application management and maintenance reports (AMM), poses a significant risk to the continuity of operations.
In the second part of 2017, the Head of the AMM Division held the position of Head of the ăOperative Division at the beginning of 2017, as well as the Head of the ăOperative Division of the Operational and Infrastructure Board in 2017, combining three main positions in the operational department, resulting in further threats to Kontinuit in 2017.
3.26.16.
Framework agreements concluded with consortia in the operation of major information systems include not only normal maintenance but also development-related maintenance, the price of which cannot be calculated on the basis of the amount of costs attached to framework agreements.
The prices per customer shall be calculated by the Agency on the basis of a combination of a fixed price and an estimate of the time and budget, in order to ensure a reliable cost control.
The Commission therefore considers that this is not necessary to achieve the objective of common interest.
The Agency could also use the IFPUG method for other systems.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.26.17
The Agency has allocated a total of EUR 69.9 million to cover additional expenditure related to the new tasks and IT systems to be transferred in 2017 but which have not adopted the legal basis by the end of the year (recast Eurodac and allocation system to Dublin) or recently (Regulation of 30 November 2017 on entry/exit system).
The corresponding payment appropriations have been used in two amending budgets of EUR 85,6 million, from EUR 153,3 million in the budget initially approved to EUR 85,6 million in the final budget.
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL SERVICES 3.26.18.
In December 2017, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented to the Commission a report on the control of procurement procedures under eu-LISA (209).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years.
(208) International Function Point Users Group. (209) The farm did not perform this task.
OJ C 434/156, Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL Year 2013 Status of corrective work (completed/in progress/present/absent/n) In the course of the ANNEX Action taken following the Court's observations from previous years In the framework of the Agency's Regulation implementing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001, Member States involved in the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis and Eurodac activities contribute to the Agency's budget.
The Agency has concluded a framework agreement of EUR 2 million for public procurement services provided by the provider of training, training and education services offered by third parties (training offers).
In 2016, the Agency received and accepted goods worth €2.8 million that did not constitute legal obligations and obligations (Verdragge).
In 2015 (not controlled by the Agency) in 2015 (not controlled by the Agency) in progress (not controlled by the Agency), for example in 2015.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/157 EN The observations of the Court of the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) in their July 2016 review report concluded that the overall structure and practical implementation of the procedures ensure that eu-LISA will operate the SIS II, VIS and Eurodac information systems in such a way as to enable national operators using these systems to continuously and continuously exchange data.
For Title II (administrative expenditure), the commitment rate for the following financial year shall be EUR 5 million and 63% respectively (EUR 9 million and 50% respectively in 2015).
In June 2015, the Agency closed an order for construction worth EUR 21.5 million in Stra§burg.
At one of the meetings of the Agency's Management Board in 2016, a representative of the Commission raised the issue of increasing the cost of living.
Although cost increases could be explained, inter alia, by the continuous development and extended functions of the systems, the Court established procurement procedures in which the Agency did not verify that the most costly funds were granted.
For example, under the Framework Agreement, the Agency has acquired a new software licence of EUR 4.6 million without verifying that the contractor of the Framework Agreement, acting as an intermediary between the Agency and the potential software provider, has obtained the best price.
In May 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement with the consortium of EUR 194 million for the further development and maintenance of the Visa Information System (VIS) and the fjr system for the comparison of biometric data (BMS) for a period of up to six years.
Year 2016 Date of correction (completed/in progress/in progress/n.d.)
C 434/158 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations Until December 2015, on behalf of the Commission, an external evaluation of the Agency has been carried out and the results are presented in the evaluation report, which ended in March 2016.
The evaluators made 64 recommendations for further improvement of operational management, seven of which are considered crucial and eleven are very important.
The Agency has drawn up a plan for implementing the recommendations which is currently being implemented.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/159 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.26.8.
In the case of medium value contracts, the Agency shall regularly publish ex ante notifications on its website in accordance with Article 103 (2) of the Financial Regulation.
In December 2017, the Commission presented two proposals for a Regulation establishing a framework for interoperability between EU information systems (borders and visas, police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration).
In addition, the review of the mandate of the Agency (in recent phases to be adopted) identified the need to develop interoperability measures that will be subject to the adoption of appropriate legislative proposals.
To date, the Agency has introduced its technical knowledge and know-how to the discussion of the High Level Expert Group on Information Systems and Interoperability.
At the same time, a study (which has not yet been completed) was carried out to obtain a clear picture of the potential architecture of interoperable information systems.
The study also includes a reduction of impacts, as well as a migration and integration plan for interoperability elements in existing and potential systems.
The Agency welcomes the fact that the construction project was carried out in Stra§burg.
The transfer of staff to the new B was soon completed after the end of work.
Construction works in another building concern the data center and are still ongoing.
The Agency has signed an agreement with an external legal firm to provide legal assistance for this construction contract.
It points out that it also includes job offers on the EU Agency Network website and on the ăEU Training website.
However, additional funding is needed to take into account the EPSO language system, according to which employment notices must be translated into all EU languages (e.g. the cost of translating the employment notice into all EU languages is EUR 12 000).
As regards the submission of tenders by electronic means, due to technical problems, this tool could not be used on a platform managed by DG DIGIT of the Commission and therefore, like other agencies, the Agency was not able to use the platform effectively in 2017.
Once the platform is stable, the Agency intends to use it in its orders.
3.26.13.
The Agency takes note of the findings and aims to further reduce the number of projects that are not in line with the timetable and has therefore started implementing measures to improve the planning process (see also statement 3.26.16).
According to the key performance indicators of the Agency (point 22) contained in the consolidated annual report for 2017, in relation to quality, cost and time parameters, completed projects shall be equal to 8,79% of the nominal value, which shall be within 10% of the target value.
In addition, in 2017, the project management method was adapted and updated by eu-LISA in order to adapt it to the PRINCE2 strategy and method.
An Enterprise Project project management tool has also been introduced to improve reporting and allocation of resources across the Agency.
3.26.14.
The Agency shall support the high participation of external contractors in IT projects (operational and organisational).
This high outsourcing rate is directly linked to Commission Communication COM (2013) 519 on the financial and staff planning of decentralised agencies in the period 2014-2020.
In 2012, the establishment plan did not provide for a sufficient number of posts for the tasks entrusted to the Agency.
Furthermore, since 2013, the Agency's tasks have been significantly increased, but its requests for additional staff have been rejected and the Agency has had to reduce the number of employees (in total seven posts), as proposed by the Commission Communication.
In order to ensure proper separation of tasks, contractors participating in quality assurance shall not provide external IT management support services.
The Agency welcomes this extraordinary situation in which the staff member first had to undertake additional tasks.
The appointment was compulsory due to the long absence of the Head of Operations and the ongoing recruitment procedure for further free standing.
In order to remedy this situation, the Agency has appointed another staff member, Head of Unit ăSecurity as Head of Unit ăSecurity and Infrastructure. On 1 July 2018, the Agency appointed the Head of Unit ăSecurity as Head of Unit ăSecurity and Infrastructure.
DE C 434/160 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.26.16.
System improvements can only be described briefly when launching the tendering procedure for the framework editor, and therefore specific changes should be negotiated as soon as the requirements are known (e.g. when the legal basis of the systems changes).
As part of the review of the procurement strategy, the Agency will address options for public procurement, including the adoption of the IFPUG method, in order to reduce the dependence on a specific economic operator in terms of development.
The Commission's Internal Audit Action Plan (IAS) in 2017 contains elements relevant to this remark.
3.26.17.
The scenario and related risks were already identified in 2016 and included in the estimates of the Agency's revenue and expenditure for 2017.
Due to delays in adopting the legal basis for the new tasks, the Management Board has been informed of the risks and concerns associated with the adoption of major global commitments throughout the year.
3.26.18.
The Agency makes the best use of this information.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/161 3.27.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Council Decision 2002/187/JHA[210] established a European Judicial Cooperation Body (hereinafter referred to as "Eurojust') established in The Hague to support the fight against serious organised crime.
3.27.2.
The main figures for Eurojust are shown in the table (211).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget of Eurojust (million euro) 48 total staff on 31 December (1) 242 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
WRITE OF UNFORTUNATE EXPRESSION IN 2016
(a) the annual accounts of Eurojust covering the annual accounts (212) and the budget implementation reports (213) f not in the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Commission therefore considers that it is not necessary for the Commission to consider that State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU as it is not compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU.
In accordance with our assessment, the annual accounts of Eurojust for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting principles adopted by the Commission's official and based on recognised international accounting bases, generally in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, as well as net changes as at 31 December 2017 for the financial year ending that date.
OJ L 63, 6.3.2002, p. 1.
(211) For more information on Eurojust's achievements and capabilities, see www.eurojust.europa.eu verf.
(212) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(213) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/162 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.27.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.27.6.
3.27.7.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYMENT 3.27.8. Eurojust shall publish employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/163 PL ANNEX Follow-up action in relation to the Court's observations of previous years In its report on the financial year 2010, the Court stated that it was necessary to reconsider the relevant tasks and responsibilities between the Administrative Director and the College of Eurojust in order to avoid duplication of obligations currently arising from the discharge regulation.
For Title II (financial support expenditure for the financial year 2015), the commitment rate for the following financial year was EUR 6446530 and 40% respectively (EUR 1,6 million and 22% respectively in 2015).
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on external staff and other management expenditure supporting the policy area "Maritime management and fisheries" and expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Maritime management and fisheries" and expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Maritime management and fisheries" and expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Maritime management and fisheries" and expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Maritime management and fisheries," including expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Maritime management and fisheries" and expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Maritime management and fisheries" and expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the policy area "Gospodarity" (EUR 4,867,482).
2011 2016 The new Eurojust Regulation is still under review by the legislator. state of play of corrective work (completed/in progress/present/n.a.) In progress (not controlled by Eurojust) n.a.
DE C 434/164 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS EUROJust 3.27.8. The statement that Eurojust EPSO does not use for the recruitment process is correct.
This approach is due to financial constraints as EPSO requires employment notices to be translated into all 24 EU official languages.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/165 3.28.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY ON COOPERATION IN THE AREA OF TRADING (EUROPOL) INTRODUCTION 3.28.1.
The European Union Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in the Hague was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of the European Parliament and of the Council (214), which repeals and replaces Council Decision 2009/371/JHA (215).
The Agency's objective is to promote and understand the effectiveness of the police and other law enforcement authorities of the Member States and their mutual cooperation in the prosecution and prosecution of serious crimes involving two or more Member States, terrorism and forms of offences affecting the common interests of the Union.
3.28.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (216).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 118 total staff on 31 December (1) 804 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WORDS not carried out in 2016 104 737 RIGHT OF DEVELOPMENT 3.28.3.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (217) and the budget implementation reports (218) f not from the financial year ending 31 December 2017; (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts; (c) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
OJ L 135, 24.5.2016, p. 53.
OJ L 121, 15.5.2009, p. 37.
(216) More information on the Agency's competences and capabilities can be found on the Agency's website: www.europol.europa.eu verf.
(217) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(218) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/166 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The decision on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.28.5. According to our assessment of the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.28.6.
3.28.7.
The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
INTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS 3.28.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on public procurement at the European Police Office[219].
Persecution of comments from earlier years 3:28.10.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years. (219) The Court has not examined these work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/167 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations from previous years As in previous years, the commitment rate under Title II (administrative expenditure) was EUR 3.5 million and 39% (EUR 4,2 million and 41% respectively) which were carried over to the following financial year.
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the host country only in 2017 (2 million euro).
Year 2016 Date of correction (completed/in progress/ongoing/n.a.) n.a.
DE C 434/168 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.28.8.
Europol employs 220 liaison officers from EU Member States and third countries and organisations.
Europol's common working language is English and therefore Europol's internal language rules adopted by the Management Board provide that, unless otherwise agreed, recruitment procedures should be conducted in English.
Therefore, employment notices shall be published by Europol in English.
Europol uses an effective and transparent recruitment process with a job vacancy rate of 0% at the end of 2017. On average, 58 competitions were held in 89 in 2017.
In addition to the English version, translation into the official EU languages requires publication on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
Due to the large number of calls for proposals for work per year, translation into the EU's official languages would entail high costs and would lead to a loss of the duration of the procedures.
Europol shall focus on operational budgetary expenditure needs and, therefore, the translation of calls for tender into all EU official languages, including the publication of EPSO, shall take place only in certain cases (e.g. in the case of the Executive Director or Deputy Executive Directors).
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/169 3.29.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY INTRODUCTION 329.1 F.R. BASIC LAWS (FRA).
The Agency for Fundamental Rights of the European Union ("the Agency') established in Vienna was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 168/2007 (220).
3.29.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (221).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 23 Total staff on 31 December (1) 108 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (222) and the budget implementation reports (223) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and orderly nature of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
OJ L 53, 22.2.2007, p. 1.
(221) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.fra.europa.eu.
(222) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, a cash flow balance sheet, a table of net changes, and a summary of the routine accounting bases and other losses.
(223) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/170 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.29.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.29.6.
3.29.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.29.8.
At the Agency, the head of the Corporate Services Department is the head of the Invoicing Department.
In 2017, the Agency encountered difficulties in obtaining research due to unrealistic closure of the market.
At least three open invitations to tender failed because the Agency only received tenders of the required quality which significantly exceeded the maximum value of the contract.
3.29.10.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (224) (225). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing all IT covering all stages of procurement procedures; it launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the submission of electronic tenders (2015).
AUDIT REPORTS OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT REPORTS 3.29.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service carried out a review of governance and ethics in the Agency through[222].
3.29.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance was carried out on behalf of the Commission in 2013-2017 (227).
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years.
(224) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to e-government).
(225) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
(226) The Court has not examined this work.
(227) The Court has not examined this assessment.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/171 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years Family authorisation (or further exercise of the powers of authorising officer) of authorising officers (or authorising officers authorised) is not always in line with the rights to issue commands in ABAC Workf low.
For Title III (operational expenditure), the appropriations for the following financial year were EUR 5.2 million and 68% (EUR 5.7 million and 70% respectively in 2015).
This is mainly about the way in which studies are financed, which extend for several months, often on a change of year.
The Agency may decide to introduce separate budgetary measures to better reflect the multi-annual nature of the contracts and the unavoidable divergences between contracts, supplies and payments.
Year 2016 Date of correction (completed/permanent/n.d.) Completed Ongoing
DE C 434/172 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.29.8.
After the restructuring of the Agency, which will be completed by the end of 2018, the accounting officer's position will be subject to the administrative responsibility of the Director and shall be directly subject to the Management Board (as always).
In order to maintain existing synergies, the accounting officer will continue to cooperate closely with the Corporate Services Department.
3.29.9.
All studies were publicly announced and were therefore considered justified.
The wide range of studies carried out by the FRA is quite unique in the EU, both in terms of subject matter and necessity in all EU Member States.
In addition, the Agency has limited resources for these activities.
However, in the case of such tenders, the Agency shall consider carrying out market tests and, if necessary, re-evaluate the technical requirements and, where possible, the priorities of the tests to be carried out.
Whether or not this problem is much easier to face with more operational expenditure.
The Agency started implementing such systems in 2018, which will be available within the deadline.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/173 3.30.
INTRODUCTION 3.301.
The European Border and Border Guard Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') ("the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/1624 of the European Parliament and of the Council (228) (the new discharge regulation in respect of the implementation of the budget) repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 (229).
It has been strengthened by the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the borders of the Member States, maintaining the name "Frontex" and its registered office in Warsaw.
The new Regulation extends the Agency's powers and entrusts the Agency with the task of ensuring integrated management of external borders at European level in order to effectively manage external borders.
This involves eliminating migratory pressures and potential threats at these borders, while contributing to the fight against serious cross-border crimes in order to ensure a high level of internal security in the Union, while fully respecting fundamental rights and respecting freedom in this area.
3.30.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (230).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 281 Total staff at 31 December (1) 526 (1) Staff employed at the Agency not only but also officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
The final employment plan for 2017 provides for more jobs: 352 jobs for officials and temporary staff and 303 jobs for contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (231) and the budget implementation reports (232) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and orderly nature of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer which are based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 251, 16.9.2016, p. 1.
OJ L 349, 25.11.2004, p. 1.
(230) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.frontex.europa.eu verf.
(231) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(232) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/174 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 330.5. Our assessment shows that revenue financed in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.30.6.
Note 3.307.
The Agency's grant expenditure significantly increased from EUR 123 million in 2016 to EUR 167 million in 2017.
Contrary to previous years, the Agency has not carried out ex post checks on expenditure related to grants in 2017.
The Commission considers that ex-ante and ex-ante have been improved before return, and now, as soon as they reach a certain level of safety, they provide the necessary security.
However, since 2014, the Court has repeatedly stated that the cooperating countries will often not provide sufficient evidence of the expenditure they mention, which has produced even more good results in this regard (see paragraphs 3.30.12 to 3.30.13).
3.30.8.
In 2016, the Court recommended that the Agency carry out a detailed analysis of the most appropriate financial mechanism (233).
In this context, the Court concludes that at the end of 2017, the Administrative Board decided to use unit costs instead of reimbursement of actual operating costs.
At the same time, a pilot project was launched in 2018 to identify unit costs for the cooperating countries.
In addition, in June 2017, the Administrative Board approved a new organisational structure of the Agency, which will apply from 2018, including the creation of a new inspection and control body, which will report directly to the Executive Director and the Management Board in order to adapt the organisation to the new mandate (see paragraph 3.30.9).
3.30.9.
Following the migration crisis faced by the Union, the mandate of the Agency was significantly extended in 2016.
In 2016, the Agency's budget increased by 75% and the 2017-2017 budget increased again by 21% compared to the previous year.
In 2016, the number of employees was increased by 18% and by a further 43% compared to the previous year.
Work is still underway to adapt systems and procedures to the new mandate and new conditions.
The following comments do not undermine the Court's opinion and should be read in the context of the challenges that the Agency had to address.
COMMENTS ON JUSTICE AND RULES OF PROCEDURE 3.30.10.
Following an open invitation to tender, the Agency received four offers concerning services for migrants in Greece.
In accordance with the selection criteria, three tenders were maintained and one of them excluded.
The only award criterion was the price.
In April 2017, the Agency signed a framework agreement of EUR 2 million for a period of three years with a company that offered the lowest price.
However, the customer was seasonally limited and had problems with obtaining the order, so the agency completed the task at the end of 2017.
In order to ensure continuity in the provision of services, the Agency signed a new framework agreement worth EUR 1.8 million with a second-placed tenderer in November 2017, which offered the second lowest price.
It did not negotiate the terms of the alternative contract with the tenderers in second and third place, but signed a new contract on the basis of the initial bid submitted by the second tenderer.
The direct award of an exchange contract was incompatible with the requirements because the original award procedure had been completed and the negotiated procedure for determining the terms of the contract, which was to apply until the end of the new open procedure, had not been carried out.
No payments related to this replacement order were made in 2017.
3.30.11.
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff shall be engaged only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (234).
In 2017, the Agency employed two employees (2016: 14) in the upper grades AST.
(233) Special Report No 12/2016 ăApplication of grants by agencies: it is not always appropriate or proven to be effective. (234) Article 53 (2) of the Staff Regulations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/175 COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
In 2017, the Icelandic Revenue Guard Agency provided financial support in connection with the use of the aircraft in Greece.
Before the reimbursement of the expenditure declared by Iceland, the Agency requested invoices to confirm the categories of expenditure declared by Iceland.
Although the accounts have never been presented, the Agency has reimbursed around EUR 440 000.
In this case, the ex ante analysis was therefore ineffective.
3.30.13.
The Agency also co-financed the use of an aircraft used by the Spanish Guardia Civil.
In the absence of evidence that the costs incurred in the control and maintenance work have been reported, the Agency has reimbursed EUR 430 000 on the basis of the average costs per hour of flight.
These average costs were calculated on the basis of the costs ceilings applied in Vertragen between Spain and private operators in the framework of inspections and maintenance.
There is a risk of reimbursement of higher costs than actually incurred.
3.30.14.
Although the Agency has already addressed the current measures in 2014, it still has not developed a comprehensive contingency plan approved by the Management Board.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.30.15
The Agency has again cancelled significant appropriations to cover expenditure incurred by participating countries in the joint operations of the previous year, i.e. EUR 7,7 million and 16,5 % (2016: EUR 5,6 million and 17.6%).
This shows that the co-operating countries have again significantly overestimated the expenditure to be reimbursed by the Agency.
Although the Joint Action had to be cancelled over the next two years, in 2017, the Agency transferred EUR 9.6 million from other budget lines to joint actions, which again transferred EUR 40.5 million to the following financial year.
Joint actions account for 69% of total cancelled appropriations (EUR 11,1 million) in 2017 and 46% of total appropriations for 2018 (EUR 87,6 million).
3.30.16.
In 2017, 66.5 million euro was allocated to relocation activities, but less action was taken than could have been financed.
The Agency therefore paid the Commission EUR 13.5 million or 20.3 % (EUR 23 million in 2016 and 37.5% in 2016).
In addition, the Agency has paid EUR 4 million of the appropriations provided for in Title I of the budget (staff expenditure) as in 2017 it was not possible to recruit as many new staff as planned.
3.30.17.
The Agency's original budget for 2017 covered EUR 8.8 million for the financial year 2017, in accordance with operational requirements for the financing of immediate appropriations to cover border protection needs and cost recovery activities (235).
In September and then in October 2017, the Agency again paid EUR 1.9 million (total EUR 3.8 million) out of the action for reimbursement of operating costs to finance other activities.
3.30.18.
Following the execution of revenue from other budget headings and after the establishment of the amending budget, the amount of appropriations entered in the application for annulment was EUR 24,7 million and 8,1% of the original budget respectively.
However, the Agency mainly used the R complaint not only to finance standard operations (EUR 8.4 million), but also to finance a project of remotely controlled aviation surveillance (Drones, EUR 7 million), which estimated only EUR 1.1 million.
The prognosis and use of outstanding actions for annulment is contrary to the principle of the budget of specialists and has a negative impact on budget transparency.
The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its own website and in other media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.30.20.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (236) (237). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT version covering all stages of procurement procedures; it has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), e-publications of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the information submitted by the Commission by the end of 2017, the Agency has launched certain procedures for invoicing electronic and electronic invitations to tender but has not submitted tenders by electronic means. (235) Article 75 (13) of the Public Procurement Regulation. (236) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 of the eGovernment.
(237) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
DE C 434/176 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Persecution of comments from previous years 3.30.21
However, the documents submitted by the cooperating countries as supporting documents concerning the expenditure declared are not always sufficient.
In addition, no initial certificates were required, although this is recommended in the implementing rules of the EU Financial Regulation for grants for certain ceilings (1).
Given the huge and constant number of grant agreements and the structure of the expenditure that the Agency must finance and reimburse, the question arises as to whether more efficient and costly forms of funding can be used.
In order to improve compliance, the contribution of Schengen associated countries (Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway) should be further calculated[23].
As regards the ex-post payments carried out by the Agency in Iceland in October 2015, it was found that the total amount of irregular payments of EUR 1,4 million in Hjhe was associated with the depreciation of the vessel participating in seven joint operations between 2011 and 2015.
Watchtower Isl, Germany, applied for reimbursement of depreciation costs for the ship, even though its period of use was already fully in line with the Agency's guidelines.
Although the Agency has the right to recover irregular payments made over the last 5 years, it has requested only payments made from January 2015 amounting to EUR 0,6 million.
C 434/178 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN The Court's observations on the Internal Security Fund were established for the period 2014-2020.
It includes two instruments: the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas and the instrument for financial support for police cooperation: EUR 2.8 billion (external borders and visas) and EUR 1 billion (police cooperation) for income financing.
Within the framework of the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas, the Commission shall reimburse Member States the cost of purchasing equipment such as vehicles or ships and operating costs such as fuel or maintenance costs.
The Agency shall also reimburse such costs to participants in joint actions.
Therefore, there is a risk of double financing [4] which is not taken into account.
In the case of participating countries, these costs include costs of ăfixcosts (accountings and maintenance costs), ă variable costs (fuel in general) and ă labour costs (total loss and other crew costs).
The notified costs are based on actual values and comply with national standards and the participating countries are therefore different, which means that all stakeholders have a particularly burdensome system.
In Special Report No 12/2016, the Court recommended that agencies use simplified cost options, where possible, in order to avoid such inefficiencies [5].
In accordance with the Agency's implementing Regulation in force until 5 October 2016, the financing of joint financing activities to be carried out with participating countries is foreseen.
However, between January and October 2016, the Agency financed national relocation operations of EUR 3.6 million amounting to EUR 3.6 million.
These payments are not in accordance with the requirements.
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff shall be engaged only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (6).
In 2016, the Agency employed 14 employees in the upper grades AST.
Title II (administrative expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) of Title III (operational expenditure) of Title II (administrative expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) of EUR 67,3 million and 37% (EUR 40,2 million and 35% respectively) respectively increased the commitment rate for the following financial year in 2015.
The Agency may decide to introduce separate budgetary measures to better address misunderstandings between legal obligations, contracts and services and payments.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/179 PL The Court's 2015 cancellation rate was EUR 6.4 million and 16% respectively in Title III (operational expenditure) since the costs incurred in 2015 which had to be reimbursed to the participating countries in 2016 were too high.
As part of the extended mandate of the Agency for relocation activities, it was considered important and the Agency's 2016 budget allocated EUR 63 million for relocation activities on Sundays.
However, EUR 23 million and 37.5% of this amount have been paid back to the EU budget, as less than relocation operations were foreseen.
A significant disruption of the framework contract award procedure of EUR 50 million to charter aircraft and related FRONTEX-R services has not only contributed to this situation but has also continued to have a negative impact on the number of relocation operations organised by the Agency.
The tender procedure was to start in 2016 and was still not started by the end of the year.
On 22 December 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020.
However, cooperation agreements with three partners (legal obligations) of EUR 3.4 million were only signed between August and November 2016.
In the case of two of these agreements, financial commitments of October and December 2016 would have to be released before legal commitments are made.
In addition, commitments amounted to EUR 1.2 million and only included pre-financing.
Such an approach is contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation on the financing of the budget, which means that another signing of agreements on uncertainty about operational cooperation between partners.
The Agency's 2016 establishment plan provides for 275 jobs for officials and temporary staff (8). At the end of 2016, 197 and 71% of these posts were filled respectively, mainly because 50 new posts were created only in October 2016 and employment had to be completed.
The Agency regularly recruits workers with the required profiles for difficulties, partly linked to the correction factor for asylum seekers (66.7 %).
C 434/180 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations Following the extension of its mandate, the number of Agency staff will increase from 365 in 2016 to 1 000 in 2020[9].
This increase was not based on solid needs.
The Agency, together with the Commission and the host country, shall examine the possibilities for resolving this problem.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
(2) Article 3 (4) of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 provides for the Agency to co-finance joint actions.
3. the Agreement between the European Community, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein, of the other part, determining the modality of their participation in the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (OJ L 197, 30.7.2000, p. 1).
(4) In paragraph 39 and Recommendation 4 of Special Report No 15/2014 of the External Borders Fund, the Court has already contributed to the increase in expenditure on financial assistance, but it is necessary to improve the measurement of results and create additional EU added value.
(5) Recommendation 1 of the Court's Special Report No 12/2016 ăApplication of grants by agencies: it is not always appropriate or proven to be effective.
(6) Article 53 (2) of the Staff Regulations.
(7) The European Asylum Support Centre (Malta), the International Organisation for Migration (Belgium) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (General).
(8) In addition, 192 posts were awarded to contract staff and seconded national experts.
(9) Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on European Border Guard and Border Guard and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, Regulation (EC) No 863/2007 and Council Decision 2005/267/EC (COM ((2015) 671 final?).
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/181 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY COMMENTS ON JUSTICE AND REGULATION
Following Frontex's decision to terminate the agreement, it was necessary to ensure continuity of services until a new contractor was selected.
Given the limited market for services in the region (lowest number of operators) it was considered most appropriate to terminate the contract for the provision of services with an undertaking which had been cut off from the second best supplier during the initial invitation to tender for the selection of reeds of vessels.
Therefore, in this case, it is not a question of continuing the tender procedure already completed.
In its decision, the Agency considered that the company already had experience in providing services to Frontex, which were very positive with respect to specific R messages not only; the service offered met all the minimum technical requirements.
The contractor explained that he was willing to provide services under the same conditions as were required and offered in the original invitation to tender.
In November 2017, a derogation was signed in which that decision was distorted.
The Partnership Agreement was signed by both parties in December 2017 and entered into force in January 2018.
The use of the price as the only criterion has been carefully checked and has been based on the experience of Frontex over the past two years in the award of public contracts for services related to the Greek and Tjrkei islands.
In view of the constraints on the market in the geographical region, an extremely small number of operators with limited supply F did not need to establish qualitative award criteria.
The services that Frontex inspired were short journeys between the Greek islands and T.T.R.K.K.K.K. under the EU-T.R.K.K.K. Partnership Agreement, while ensuring that these activities were carried out in a safe environment and with full respect for fundamental rights.
According to the last sentence of Article 31 (2) of the Staff Regulations (to take account of the specific needs of the institutions, the employment of civil servants may also take account of the labour market situation in the Union. not only), but also of the conditions of the labour market (= low adjustment rate compared to the required professional experience).
This decision was fully in line with the workplaces (which form part of the budget) and has never been challenged by officials.
Since March 2017, Frontex has not employed external candidates at higher levels than AST 4.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
Inspection/maintenance costs are defined as "costs for all inspection/maintenance work throughout the lifetime of the measure (...).
The rate based on the data provided by the manufacturer or the maintenance point of the undertaking benefiting from the measure.
This means that the hourly rate may be expressed in the form of an explanation of the costs incurred by beneficiaries who are based either on producer costs or on a price determined on the basis of the actual costs incurred in previous years, or on costs, using reference data for other measures, where these are new measures and no escape data are available.
Invoices (or accounting documents equivalent to data quantities) may be provided only if the hourly price is based on the costs actually incurred in the reference year.
However, if no invoices are actually issued, the person concerned may also set an hourly rate on the basis of average reference prices.
This was the case for the selected payment, while the Izland Royal Guard Frontex presented a reduction in fixed maintenance costs.
The documentation submitted by Isl to the German fire department took into account the results of the ex post controls carried out by the Frontex ex post control team in 2015 during a visit to the Maintenance Headquarters in Iceland, while the team had documents used as a basis for calculation methods.
Therefore, according to the opinion of the Frontex agency, the document submitted by Iceland constitutes sufficient reason for approving expenditure.
The total hourly rate for all inspection/maintenance operations carried out by an aircraft equipped with fixed load plates is based on three special rules: the property of fixed and professional engines: fixed and professional: fixed and fixed operation of fixed and secured engines provided a maximum amount of EUR 9 010 475,50, but payments are based on hourly rates for the maintenance of the engine.
Guardia Civil calculates Frontex, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, an hourly rate for the maintenance of the engine.
If less time is spent to maintain the engines, the total limit will not be reached.
Therefore, in this case it is not the total value of the contract but the hourly rate.
DE C 434/182 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 j.p. General maintenance work.p.m.p.m.p.p. is a contract with a total price (this is not a framework contract) which provides for monthly bills for individual works of the contractor.
The Agency assumes that, after the termination of the contract, Guardia Civil will pay the total amount specified in the contract.
The price per hour shall be calculated by dividing these total costs by the number of hours of flight.
it is not a total price agreement (this is not a framework agreement) which provides for monthly bills for specific work carried out by the supplier.
The Agency assumes that, after the termination of the contract, Guardia Civil will pay the total amount specified in the contract.
The Agency is unable to contribute to the Court's risk assessment as it was sent back to the Guardia Civil, which, on the basis of the total award agreement, was finally confronted with the costs which were reimbursed on the basis of specific invoices.
The current approach to operational efficiency, strategy and associated emergency areas has been developed and updated on the basis of the legal framework and structure that were in force until the end of 2016.
Due to the extended mandate and the new structure, in particular the emergency areas will be reviewed by the competent authorities as organisational changes also require a full review of the basic project.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.30.15
This challenge involves the possibility of making commitments in a given year.
In the fourth quarter of 2016, in order to avoid the risk of serious cancellations, Frontex requested those who were invited to submit final payment applications for the first half of 2016, as well as Frontex to provide additional information on current income costs (December 2016) or planned revenue (January 2017) in the operational activities in 2016.
The main objective of these calls was to identify possible reservations, reduce the relevant SFD allocations and re-use of funds in 2016.
Despite some positive results, the financial resources were still very high.
Therefore, despite the appropriate reduction in real financial needs, Frontex did not have sufficient resources to ensure financial coverage in autumn 2016, since the abolished funds were not used at that time.
The Agency has developed a simplified work plan, which will be implemented within the operational cycle 2018 and which will be applied in the case of an increase of up to one year to a much higher degree; the Agency has not only stepped up the supervision of the cancellation of payments but also aims to reduce the number of cancellations.
h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
In 2017, the number of road transport activities coordinated by Frontex increased significantly: the number of migrants increased from 10 700 in 2016 to 14 200 in 2017 with an increase of 47% compared to the previous year.
This represents 10% of the total number of migrants actually employed from the EU to third countries (in 2014 they amounted to 2%).
Recruitment Staff expenditure payments were mainly linked to difficulties and related misunderstandings related to the recruitment procedure: long-term procedures, long-term recruitment periods, insufficient number of candidates and geographical imbalances due to a low correction rate.
Nevertheless, the Agency believes that it is a success to employ and employ 250 new workers within one year.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/183 3.30.17.
In 2017, the Agency was the first year of implementation of the new ETUC Regulation.
In accordance with Article 75 (13), the Agency is required to include in its budget, in order to finance immediate border operations (RABIT) and relocation operations, in operational financial actions amounting to 4 % of the appropriations foreseen for operational operations.
On 1 October each year, at least one quarter of the actions for damages should remain in force to meet the needs that arise until the end of the year.
The required operational action has been brought so that the Agency can at any time within a year compensate for a certain reserve to ensure immediate supply in order to secure the borders and cover the extraordinary costs of such rapid intervention.
The European Parliament amended the original text of the ETUC Regulation proposed by the Commission in order to add that by 1 October only one quarter of the action for annulment must remain in force for the remaining three months of the year.
The ETUC Regulation is silent about what is to happen to the remaining three quarters of R's action no later than 1 October; this issue is unclear.
The first objective at the end of September was to finance organised operations in the air and at sea and to purchase its own aviation security services, and the second was after 1 October.
The Management Board has been informed in its monthly revenue report.
The Agency considers that the legislator should ensure transparency with regard to Community law.
The R claim was no longer required in preparation for the Single Programming Document (EPPD) for 2017-2019.
In accordance with Articles 75 (3) and 75 of the EGKW Regulation, the preparation of the EPPD and the reduction of revenue and expenditure were started in year N-2 and completed by autumn of year N-1 at the latest.
The ETUC Regulation entered into force in October 2016.
The Agency had to plan its annual work programme for 2017 (under EPPD 2017-2019) throughout 2016, without the final outcome of the ETUC Regulation and thus without a clear legal basis.
At the end of 2016, the EPPD 2017-2019 was already completed and fully endorsed by the Administrative Board, which fully supported the creation of a non-compliant infringement suit in connection with the transition to border guards and border guards in Europe.
In its opinion on EPPD 2017-2019 (C91/20168722), in point 63: ăThe Commission concluded that the contingency plan became a fundamental principle for the preparation of the annual work programme and that the Agency intends to provide almost 10% of its operational budget for the so-called "operational flexibility."
In this context, the Commission invites the Agency to establish two separate claims for compensation within its budget, the first of which is fully in line with Article 75 (13) of the ETUC Regulation and the second gives the Agency the opportunity to maintain operational flexibility in order to take action in emergency situations which are not immediate.
As the Agency publishes its job offers in English, EPSO requires translation into all EU official languages, due to the large number of job offers, this would mean that costs have increased significantly and the procedure for taking a position could deteriorate.
Frontex disseminates information on job vacancies in other countries, i.e. the network of EU agencies, management, permanent representations, Euroloops and social media.
Once the agreement is signed with the Commission (DG DIGIT), this instrument will be used for the first time.
Article 90 (2) of the Public Procurement Directive, applicable by the Commission to agencies, was defined as a formal deadline for the adoption of this instrument at the end of October 2018, and Frontex will comply with that deadline.
DE C 434/184 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under sub-heading 4 of the multiannual financial framework - Europe in the world 3.31.
INTRODUCTION 3.31.1.
The European Training Foundation ("the Foundation') established in Turin was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 (238) (recast of Regulation (EC) No 1339/2008 (239).
To this end, the Commission shall assist the Commission in the implementation of the various vocational education and training programmes.
3.31.2.
The main figures for the Foundation (240) are presented in the table.
Table Main figures for the Foundation for 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 Total staff on 31 December (1) 125 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
WORDS in 2016 of 21 130 RIGHT TO PRACTICE 3.31.3.
(a) the Foundation's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (241) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (242) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Foundation's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Foundation's financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer which are based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 131, 23.5.1990, p. 1.
OJ L 354, 31.12.2008, p. 82.
(240) More information on the achievements and achievements of the Foundation can be found on the website of the Foundation www.etf.europa.eu verf.
(241) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(242) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/185 The legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts The Court of First Instance on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts of the European Union (3)1.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.31.6.
331.7.
INTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS 3.31.8.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report assessing progress in VET in the Turin Process at the Foundation (243). The Foundation has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where improvements are likely to occur.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(243) The Court has not examined this work.
C 434/186 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years An external evaluation of the Foundation was carried out in 2016 on behalf of the Commission.
This was the first step towards a cross-cutting evaluation of the four agencies, i.e. employment, social affairs and social inclusion[1).
The evaluators concluded that the significant restructuring of the Foundation has not had a significant negative impact since 2011 and that its internal and external actors have generally assessed this issue positively, in particular with regard to strategy and effectiveness.
The Foundation's governance structure has been considered effective and effective.
The evaluation also stressed that since 2011 the Foundation has continued to improve its environmental positions, but it needs to present its achievements and achievements even more clearly.
The harmonisation and simplification of indicators within a single intervention logic and the use of common terminology throughout the Foundation would contribute to improvement.
The Foundation has drawn up a plan for the implementation of the evaluation recommendations.
Already in the Foundation's 2011 accounts, the Court stressed that the situation is unsatisfactory due to the Foundation's routine and that there is a risk that the Foundation will not be able to continue its experience.
The situation has remained unchanged since the end of the management of the gebu-dezcomprehensive consortium in 2011, which used part of the rum in the complex itself, and in 2011 the corresponding empty rums were eliminated§.
The Member State in which the foundation is established must urgently find a solution to this problem.
The Headquarters Agreement guarantees appropriate rationalisation by 2027.
Year 2016 Status of corrective work (completed/completed/n.a.) n.a. 2016 (1) Other agencies to be assessed are the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin), the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) and the European Centre for Vocational Training (Thessalonics).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/187 FUNCTIONING REPLY The Foundation shall take note of the Court's report.
DE C 434/188 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under sub-heading 5 of the multiannual financial framework for the management of 3.32.
EURATOM AGENCY INTRODUCTION 3.32.1.
The Euratom Supply Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Luxembourg was established in 1958[244].
Council Decision 2008/114/EC, Euratom[245] replaced the Agency's previously existing statute.
The main task of the Agency is to ensure that EU users are regularly supplied with nuclear material, in particular nuclear fuel, in accordance with the principle of equal access to supply sources by means of a common supply policy.
3.322.
Between 2008 and 2011, the Agency was not allocated its own budget to finance its activities.
Since 2012, the Commission has forwarded its own budget to the Agency, but it covers only a small part of the expenditure.
3.32.3.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (246).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 0,1 Total staff on 31 December (1) 17 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WORDS in 2016 of the Unexplained Tool of the European Parliament and of the Council 0,1 17 RIGHT TO PROPUTED 3.32.4.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (247) and the budget implementation reports (248) f not from the financial year ending 31 December 2017; (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts; (c) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
(244) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
OJ L 41, 15.2.2008, p. 15.
(246) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website: http://ec.europa.eu/euratom/index.html verf.
(247) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(248) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/189 The legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.32.6 from our assessment shows that the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.32.7.
DE C 434/190 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The Agency shall take note of the Court's report.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/191 Self-financing agencies 3.33.
COMMUNITY SORTENAM (CPVO) INTRODUCTION 3.33.1.
The Community Plant Variety Office (hereinafter referred to as "the Office of ădas', including the Office of ăCPVO...) established in Angers was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 (249).
3.33.2.
The main figures for the Authority are shown in the table (250).
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) 16 Total staff on 31 December (1) 51 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
The Commission therefore considers that it is not necessary for the Commission to consider that State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU as it is not compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU.
In accordance with our assessment, the Authority's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's official and based on recognised international accounting bases, generally in all material respects, present the Authority's financial position as at 31 December 2017, as well as the Authority's financial situation as at 31 December 2017, as well as its results and cash flows and net changes as at 31 December 2017 for the financial year ending 31 December 2017.
OJ L 227, 1:1994, p. 1.
(250) More information on the Authority's competences and capabilities can be found at www.cpvo.europa.eu.
(251) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(252) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
EN C 434/192 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.33.5 According to our assessment of the revenue underlying it on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all relevant respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.33.6.
3.33.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.33.8.
In 2017, procurement and grant procedures were not adequately documented.
In the case of service contracts in the form of low and medium value contracts, in published procurement documents, there were no records concerning the initial selection of candidates for low value contracts and in the case of low value contracts, the Authority did not draw up evaluation reports.
Furthermore, the award criteria have not been clearly defined.
As far as grants are concerned, risk assessments were inappropriate and expertise was not signed.
In accordance with its financial rules (253), the Authority should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in public procurement procedures.
By the end of 2017, the Authority did not have any of these tools.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(253) Article 74 Electronic management (ăe-Government.)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/193 OJ C 434/193 ANNEX Action taken following the Court's observations in previous years concerning the part of payments, the Authority uses electronic payments.
The accounting officer or his alternate may sign payments by electronic means.
As of 31 December 2015, the number of dependants within 90 days (generally in the year) was EUR 240 766-ro ((1).
The Authority has not used all the possibilities provided for in its Financial Regulation to recover outstanding funds such as enforcement (2). Of the EUR 788 540 and 40% (2015: EUR 395 882 and 28%) respectively, the ratio of appropriations for the following financial year was high in Title II (administrative expenditure).
This appropriation is intended mainly to cover ongoing renovations of buildings (284 423 euro), IT projects (253 483 euro) and costs of work and evaluation (137 098 euro), partly provided in 2017 or invoiced only this year.
The cancellation rate of 2015 payment appropriations for the following year was 17% (2015: 20%), indicating the need to improve budgetary planning.
The interim external performance assessments are not required by the Authority's exemption regulation.
Although the Authority or the Commission has carried out ad hoc assessments of specific issues, the Authority and the Commission should seek to order at least every five years an external evaluation, as most other agencies do.
DE C 434/194 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS AMTS 3.33.8.
The Court agrees that there is a need to improve the dossier and points out that the necessary assessments, evaluations and opinions have been carried out or drawn up under appropriate procedures.
3.339.
Before the end of the year, the Authority concluded an agreement with the European Commission on the making available of the electronic tender tool.
At that time, there were no tenders that reflected the terms of use of the tool and were not mandatory to use the tool at that time.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/195 3.34.
The Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property ("the Authority ădas') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority for Harmonisation on the Internal Market ("the OHIM')') was established in 1993.
Its original grouping Regulation was last amended by Regulation (EU) 2017/1001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (254).
The main feature of the Office based in Alicante is the registration of EU trade marks and registered Community designs which are legal throughout the EU.
3.34.2.
The main figures for the Authority are presented in the table (255).
Table Key figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 401 Total staff at 31 December 995 (1) Budget figures include information on unforeseen events.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
In accordance with our assessment, the Authority's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Authority's financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 154, 16.6.2017, p. 1.
(255) For more information on the Authority's competences and capabilities, see the Authority's website: https://euipo.europa.eu verf.
(256) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(257) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/196 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.34.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.34.6.
3.34.7.
In 2017, the Authority cancelled EUR 3,2 million and 15,9% of the appropriations for this purpose for the financial year 2016.
The Authority continued to benefit from a fixed remuneration (258).
The prices used for each service are based on unit prices (price/personal day, etc.) as defined in framework agreements and on the number of units that may be covered by the service.
When checking the price offers of economic operators, the Authority shall ensure that unit prices are correctly applied.
3.34.10.
However, in the case of a framework agreement of EUR 80 million for general advisory, project management and research services, the list of services to be provided under the framework agreement has not been established.
With regard to the evaluation of offers, the service descriptions contained two business scenarios related to project management and a programme covering several projects.
This Framework Agreement is a multi-faceted framework agreement which partly covers cascade (general project management advice and services) and partly re-calls for competition (practice and research).
The Authority has previously identified closed units, but it has been asked to specify the breakdown between the different profiles.
Therefore, the Framework Agreement and some of the related individual applicants were announced on the basis of unit prices, types of profiles and quality, but not on the basis of the expected number of units, which is another important element in the calculation of the fixed price agreement.
3.34.11.
This Framework Agreement concluded an individual fixed price contract of EUR 145 447.50, which mainly concerns the provision of support services for the implementation of the document management project.
The days of persons required to provide these services may not be derived from either the business points specified in the service description or from the description contained in the individual contract.
Therefore, at the fixed price specified in this individual contract, there is a risk that benefits will not be provided in the most economic manner.
3.34.12.
If all the conditions for the provision of services for the award of a framework contract are not defined, it would be more appropriate to re-invite individual candidates to apply for a contract among several contractors of a framework contract.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(258) See also paragraph 21 of the previous year's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/197 PL 2016 Status of correction (completed/permanent/n) Completed (3) ANNEX Continuation of Court's observations from previous years The implementation rate of the Office's budget was low of 89%, indicating an inaccurate reduction in expenditure in the 2016 budget.
As a result of successive amendments to the Block Exemption Regulation and the Authority's financial rules, it is increasingly important that the Authority, if necessary, establish a detailed budget by means of an amending budget in connection with the mechanisms provided for in the budget, such as the allocation of funds for damages claims (point 1) and the corresponding compensation mechanism (2).
In 2014, the Authority launched a tender for a framework agreement for a period of four years on a fixed market size of EUR 30 million for consultancy services covering a wide range of areas, including advisory services, project management, general advisory services and research.
However, in some cases the procurement procedure and termination of the framework agreement were not properly managed.
The objectives and tasks have not been clearly defined to allow precise determination of the size of the framework agreement.
Therefore, after just two years and six months, the budget of the Framework Agreement was fully exhausted.
Moreover, despite the variety of services to be provided and the very different expenditures, no parts were used.
The use of parts may encourage smaller companies to participate in the procedure through low value technologies.
Finally, the price competition has been neutralized and the contractor has obtained consent because, using a fixed price framework agreement, they have been asked for a price offer by one contractor.
The Authority should endeavour to conclude agreements with several suppliers and, if necessary, to request competition again.
The Office Regulation provides that the translation required by the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT) is carried out by the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT), which means that the Office is the Centre's main client.
The Authority is increasingly using internal applications such as language and translation memory as well as additional software.
These instruments aim to improve the cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the Authority.
However, from the point of view of the European Union, the current situation could lead to a doubling of expenditure and costs.
2016 In progress (4) 2016 In progress (1) Article 89 (1) of the Financial Regulation of the Authority establishes a compensation action fund whose budget complies with the measures set out in Titles 1, 2 and 3 of the Office's budget.
(2) Article 139 (4) and (6) of the Block Exemption Regulation provides that each year the Office shall calculate the costs to be incurred by the industrial security staff of the Member States, the Benelux Intellectual Property Office and any other persons concerned, as defined by the Member State as functional elements of the European Union trade mark system under the various services and procedures; this obligation shall apply only in so far as no budget deficit occurs this year.
(3) In 2017, the implementation rate of the Office's budget was 97%.
(4) See point 3.34.8.
DE C 434/198 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE OFFICE ON BUDGET 334.8.
While the cancellation rate is almost 15%, the amount of cancelled liabilities amounts to EUR 3.2 million, which is the lowest of the last ten years (since 2008).
The Authority shall continue to cooperate with national supervisory authorities in order to reduce cancelled results by means of mid-term search reports and half-yearly analyses with matching control measures that form an integral part of any new cooperation agreement.
Internal actions such as training, training, information notes and meetings with financial stakeholders have also been implemented by financial actors.
In addition, before the end of 2017, the Authority expected that the level of cancelled revenue would increase by 15% and that it would actively take additional measures to reduce revenue from the year C.E.
The Authority takes note of the Court's observations.
First of all, it should be noted that the scenarios described in the public procurement documents were intended to ensure that they would be as expressive and responsive as possible and that they were not expected to be closely linked to each specific contract.
As regards the adequacy of the new opening of competition mechanisms and as stated in the Authority's response to the 2016 audit, this concept has already been taken into account in the proposed framework agreement on audits and studies.
The Authority compared the added value of this mechanism with the related administrative costs and, taking into account the Office's intensive use of advisory services and project management, concluded that this is not the most effective way to manage these recent types of infringements.
Given that the current Framework Agreement has legal effect by 2020, the extension of this mechanism to consultancy and project management services would require a new call for proposals at this stage, which the Authority considers inappropriate.
In the current cascade system of consultancy and project management services, the Authority reiterates its response to the 2016 audit on the application of fixed price procedures.
The main reason for this option is the fact that proceedings against the Office before the Spanish labour courts in connection with the transfer of workers which are not justified is related, inter alia, to the use of the ăTime and Means system.
In the case of a fixed price procedure (under the cascade system), the Authority shall have experience in evaluating tenders.
EUIPO has set up a dedicated team which, on the basis of practice and expertise, is able to identify the resources necessary to carry out tasks beyond fixed prices.
However, we believe that the Court's doubts can be resolved by other contractual methods than the fixed price, e.g. by reference to the ăquoted Time and Means procedure.
The Authority undertakes to provide further information and to document its own resources necessary for the performance of fixed price service tasks prior to the submission of an application for a tender in order to provide evidence in relation to the Authority's abovementioned experience.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/199 3.35.
UNIFORM ENFORCEMENT (SRB) 3.35.1.
The Single Committee on Restructuring and orderly winding-up (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee') (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee'), including the Committee on Restructuring and orderly winding-up (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee') established in Br.ssel, was set up by Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 on the Single Resolution Mechanism (259).
3.35.2.
The Committee shall be responsible for the management of the Single Resolution Fund ("the ăder Fund') set up by the SRM Regulation to support the Single Resolution Mechanism.
3.35.
The Committee advocates its own budget, which is not part of the EU budget.
3.35.4.
The main figures for the Committee are presented in the table (260).
Table Main figures for the Committee's budget (million euro) Part I (the Committee's administrative budget) Part II (the Fund's budget) 2017 113 6 462 2016 65 11 800 182 Total human resources at 31 December (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Committee.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
(260) More information on the Committee's competences and capabilities can be found at www.srb.europa.eu.
(261) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial results, a cash flow account, a table of net changes, and a summary of the allegedly justified accounting bases and other reductions. (262) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include an overview of revenue and expenditure and a report on the implementation of the budget.
EN C 434/200 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts Opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.35.7.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.35.8.
Emphasis on the facts of 3.35.9.
Without questioning its judgments in paragraphs 3.35.6 to 3.35.8, the Court would stress that the fund's costs are calculated on the basis of information provided to the Committee by credit institutions (and certain investment firms).
While determining the Committee's revenue, the Court welcomed this information but did not pay attention to its involvement.
The SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure compliance of information.
Furthermore, the Committee cannot disclose detailed information on the contributions of each credit institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment as these calculations are limited and include confidential information concerning other credit institutions.
3.35.10.
Administrative actions or judicial proceedings between credit institutions and national resolution authorities and the Committee in connection with comments to the Fund and to the Court of Justice of the European Union, bringing actions against former shareholders and globes of Banco Popular Espa.ol, S.A., after the adoption of the resolution concept, closed in the course of the examination so as not to affect the position of the parties in these proceedings.
For details, see point 8 of the Committee's accounts.
3.35.11.
The following comments do not call into question the Court's opinion.
The Committee has not ensured that payments are made within the time limit set.
Around 28% of payments (9.5% of total payments) to contractors and reimbursement of costs to experts and employees were made in a consistent manner.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 335.13.
Article 92 (4) of the SRM Regulation The Court shall report in particular on the conditional obligations arising from the implementation by the Committee, the Council and the Commission of the obligations under this Regulation.
In accordance with the procurement plan set out in the Annex to the 2017 Work Programme, 16 different services should be granted, but in fact only contracts for legal advice have been awarded.
In addition, the value of the contract was set out in a public procurement plan worth EUR 3 million, while the volume of the contract was EUR 29 million.
This indicates unnecessary shopping planning.
3.35.15.
Of the candidates for legal aid of EUR 29 million, EUR 20 million was awarded through eleven negotiated procedures without prior publication.
In addition, two amounts of EUR 3 million were also allocated under this procedure for economic and financial evaluation advice and support (in line with the 2016 annual work programme).
The purpose of such procedures is to restrict competition.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/201 3.35.16.
The Committee should establish uniform financial rules for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (263).
Since the EU institutions are faced with such a requirement, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT version covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It initiated electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notices in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and submission of tenders in electronic form (2015). By the end of 2017, the Committee had not yet had any of these tools.
3.35.17.
The Committee publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). In this way, the principles of transparency, the publicist and journalists who have had the opportunity to read the employment notices in the various European institutions and agencies are respected.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years.
(263) Article 75 of the SRB's financial provisions of 25 March 2015
C 434/202 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years 2015
However, a number of key procedures and controls, including risk management and control strategies, internal control standards, regular assessment of the proper functioning of the internal control system and anti-fraud strategies, are still expected to be developed, adopted or implemented.
The Court of Auditors has not yet approved the Committee's invoicing system.
Only 62% (in 2015: 67%) and EUR 35 million (in 2015: EUR 15 million) were paid out of the available funds (1).
The appropriations entered for the following financial year amount to EUR 3.1 million and 35% respectively (EUR 3,3 million and 70% respectively) in Title II (administrative expenditure).
These relate mainly to IT services provided in 2016 (EUR 1.9 million) and security services provided this year, which have not yet been charged and paid (EUR 0.6 million).
In Title III of the budget (operational expenditure), the appropriations allocated for the following financial year amount to EUR 5,3 million and 66% respectively (EUR 1,6 million and 40% respectively) of commitments.
These cover essentially services provided by the European Central Bank (€1.9 million), legal services (€1.5 million) and IT services (€1.3 million) to be paid in 2017.
Between July and October 2016, the Committee undertook to purchase legal services of EUR 2 million which were not provided for in the annual work programme or budget, nor was a financing decision adopted before the budget commitment was made.
On the basis of the negative interest rate applied to the participation in the EU central bank in 2016, the Fund repaid EUR 24 million of negative interest (2) to the national central banks.
This reduced the amount of viable resolution operations that could be accumulated.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/203 PL Court's observations The Committee must specify more detailed recruitment procedures, clear minimum points to be achieved by candidates, and further define the tasks and responsibilities of the members of the selection panel.
In 2016, the exclusion rate was EUR 71% and EUR 71 million respectively.
EUR 50 million in 2017
DE C 434/204 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF COMMITTEE 3.35.9
The contributions collected in advance for the Fund shall be calculated on the basis of information provided to the Credit Institutions Committee and to certain investment firms.
Although the SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure compliance with this information, the SRF gives all possible attention to this aspect.
The data shall be reported on the basis of the data provided by the institutions in the previous year and the data contained in the ECB's database.
The differences are displayed to the national resolution authorities which are asked to clarify the facts, which allowed the SRF to improve the quality of data in previous cycles.
Furthermore, the Committee cannot disclose details of the contributions previously made to the institution, calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, since the calculations are limited and therefore disclose confidential information about the other institutions.
However, the SRF revealed the method of calculation and detailed calibrations to ensure transparency and cooperation.
3.35.12.
In 2017, the financial team was unable to find experienced employees, thanks to the combination of unexpectedly high workload, unfortunate staff fluctuations in the financial team and general difficulties in finding experienced employees in order to ensure effective management of all financial perspectives, including invoices.
Since the fourth quarter of 2017, the team has been reconstructed and measures have been taken to ensure timely processing of invoices.
So far, almost 98% of invoices have been paid in 2018.
Each case of late payment is currently subject to a detailed analysis in order to further improve in this area.
3.35.14.
In 2016, the SRB's initial procurement plan for 2017-2017 was adopted, when the Committee was only in its second full year of existence.
During this period, no resolution has been carried out and the Agency has had little experience on the basis of which a public procurement plan could be drawn up.
As a new SRB agency, she could benefit from the various interinstitutional frameworks managed by the European Commission.
This meant that many procurement procedures, which should have been launched by the SRB in 2017, were not finally implemented.
In 2018, the implementation of the procurement plan will be closely monitored and additional efforts will be made to improve the planning of procurement procedures.
In 2017, SRB invested EUR 20 million in H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.
Almost all negotiated procedures without prior publication of the contract notice concerned legal disputes (eight out of ten speeches of a total value of EUR 10,9 million) which did not fall within the scope of Directive 2014/24/EU.
This also includes a large number of disputes which have been brought before the Court of Justice following the first SRB resolution procedure.
The SRB therefore does not consider that it applies such procedures in a transparent manner.
As regards the economic and financial evaluation activities in the case of two of the WZJs in 2017, the re-implementation of the competition proved ineffective and the SRB was therefore forced to use negotiated procedures.
Due to the subject-matter of the contract and the need for full confidentiality, the contract award notice has not been published in accordance with the applicable rules.
3.35.16.
On-line access to tender documents is available to economic operators on the SRB website since its publication and has been fully integrated into the e-procurement platform since the end of 2017.
In June 2017, the SRB requested the possibility to use electronic offers, but the Commission has not yet provided access.
The SRB stated that such publications on the EPSO website do not concern either the quality or the number of applications and are also very costly due to the compulsory translation of the notice of employment.
The SRB therefore publishes its employment notices on its own website and on the EU_CV online and LinkedIn website and informs its stakeholders (central banks, finance ministries, national agencies, other EU agencies and permanent representations).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/205 3.36. SUPERVISION CENTER OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AUTHORITIES (CDT) INTRODUCTION 3.36.1.
The Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the "Centrum ădas," including the ăCdT Centre in Luxembourg) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2965/94[264].
The Centre's task is to provide translation services to the institutions and bodies of the European Union using the Centre's services, which are responsible for their activities.
3.36.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the centre (265).
Table Main figures for Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) 49 Total staff on 31 December (1) 215 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Centre.
THE WORDS OF THE NON-COMPLIANCE IN 2016 51 225 OFFICE 3.363.
(a) the Centre's annual accounts, including the annual accounts[266] and the budget implementation reports (267) f.r. of the financial year ending on 31 December 2017; and
In accordance with our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Centre's balance sheet and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
OJ L 314, 7.12.1994, p. 1.
(265) More information on the possibilities and capabilities of the Centre can be found at www.cdt.europa.eu.
(266) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(267) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as drawing conclusions.
DE C 434/206 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.36.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.36.6.
Note 3.36.7.
The Centre's task is to provide translation services to EU agencies and bodies responsible for their activities, including EU institutions that can use the Centre's services.
The implementing regulations of most agencies and bodies provide for the use of the Centre's translation services.
Some agencies and institutions (of which more than half of the Centre's revenues) are increasingly benefiting from internal opportunities or other alternatives.
This means, however, that no maximum use is made of the Centre's resources, that there is a duplicate of the development of current systems and costs at European level, and that the business model and maintenance of the Centre can be justified.
In 2017, an external assessment of the adequacy of the Centre's business model was carried out.
The final evaluation report has not yet been adopted during the Court's work (268).
3.36.8.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 336.9.
In accordance with its Financial Framework Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures (269) (270).
Given that this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT version covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Centre launched an electronic invoicing system for certain procedures, but not for an electronic invitation to tender and tender.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(268) The Court has not examined this assessment.
(269) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to e-government).
(270) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/207 PL ANNEX Follow-up action in connection with the Court's observations in previous years The Centre has not yet adopted the Business Continuity Plan and therefore Standard No 10 does not take into account internal control (1).
In 2016, the Centre's cash and short-term bank deposits fell to EUR 34.2 million (at the end of 2015: EUR 38.3 million). The reserves decreased to EUR 31.1 million (at the end of 2015: EUR 34 million).
Year 2015 2016 Status of corrective actions (completed/in progress/other/n) Completed Ongoing (1) (2) The Centre's internal control standards are based on the relevant Commission standards.
This trend continued in 2017.
DE C 434/208 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS CENTRE 3.369.
The accounting officer shall not be obliged to fulfil his or her clearing duties.
This disagreement is due to the fact that it is appointed by the Governing Board and that its position is permanent.
In order to ensure the independence of the accounting officer, he shall be directly accountable to the Director of the Centre from 2018 and shall be evaluated by the Director.
3.36.10.
Since October 2018, the Centre will use these two instruments developed by the Commission.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/209 Commission executive agencies 3.37.
EXECUTIVAGENTURE EDUCATION, AUDIOVISUAL AND CULTURE (EACEA) INTRODUCTION 3.3.7.1.
The Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency (hereinafter referred to as the "Audiovisual Agency') (hereinafter referred to as the "Audiovisual Agency' (hereinafter referred to as the "Audiovisual Agency') (hereinafter referred to as the "Audiovisual Agency') (hereinafter referred to as the "Audiovisual Agency') with its seat in Brussels was established by Commission Decision 2013/776/EU[271) repealing Decision 2009/336/EC[272).
The Agency shall be responsible for the management of programmes adopted by the Commission in the field of education, culture and the audiovisual sector and for the detailed implementation of technical projects.
337.2.
The main figures for the Agency (273) are presented in the table.
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 50 total staff on 31 December (1) 436 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WORDS in 2016 49 442 of the Law to Practice 3.37.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (274) and budget implementation reports (275) f not in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the financial and financial situation of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 343, 19.12.2013, p. 46.
OJ L 101, 21.4.2009, p. 26.
(273) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.eacea.ec.europa.eu.
(274) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(275) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/210 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.37.5 According to our assessment of the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.37.6.
3.37.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.37.8.
The Director of the Financial, Financial and Programming Department shall be the Head of the Agency's Accounting Department.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (276). The Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT version covering all stages of procurement procedures, launching tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS 3.37.10.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented reports on the management of recovery orders in relation to competition (including guarantees for competition funds) and recovery orders in the context of the Commission's corrective measures and phase 1 of the management of grants for Erasmus+ and Creative Europe programmes (277).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
(276) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) eGovernment (ăe-Government) (277) The Court has not reviewed these work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/211 PL ANNEX Follow-up action in relation to the Court's observations in previous years In 2016, during the annual assessment of the Agency's emission value, 46 IT articles with a total value of less than 22 000 euro could not be found, indicating that 46 IT articles could not be found in order to ensure the value of lost items.
Approximately EUR 2.3 million and 47% (in 2015: EUR 2.8 million and 50%) of appropriations for the following financial year were high in Title III (the Agency's operational assistance), respectively.
This appropriation is intended primarily to cover ongoing audits of projects (EUR 0.8 million) and IT services (EUR 0.9 million), which were commissioned in 2016, but have not yet been cleared at the end of the year or which were only completed in 2017.
Year 2016: correction status (completed/in progress/present/n.d.)
DE C 434/212 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.37.8. The Agency considers that its accounting officer has a high degree of independence.
The appointment by the Steering Committee and the functionality of subcontracting to the Committee should take account of the fact that the accounting officer of the EACEA as a seconded Commission official seconded to the post of Commission Delegated Officer is personally much more independent of the officials employed on-the-spot.
Thanks to this constellation, the posted account forms part of DG Human Resources' organisational structure, in our case DG EAC.
The Agency will examine the Court's observations taking into account the potential actions of other EU agencies or Commission guidelines on organisations.
As the Agency's highest level of activity includes changes, the case will be brought to the attention of the potential director.
3.37.9.
The Agency is closely following the Commission's e-procurement proposal.
The Commission intends to launch the e-tendering procedure in July 2018, which will include the e-submission procedure.
3.37.10.
Both actions were sent to and adopted by the Internal Audit Service.
It should be noted that all planned actions have been taken over.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/213 3.38.
INTRODUCTION 3.38.1.
The Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') ("the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Brussels was established by Commission Implementing Decision 2013/771/EU (278) for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2024.
Their main task is, in close cooperation with the seven Commission Directorates-General, to manage EU actions in the field of research and innovation, the competitiveness of SMEs, environmental and climate policy and maritime and fisheries policy.
338.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (279).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 43 total human resources on 31 December (1) 434 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WRITE OF UNFORTUNATED EXPLAIN IN 2016 36 417 RIGHT TO PRACTICE 3.383.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (280) and the budget implementation reports (281) f not in the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts; (c) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows, as well as changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting bases.
OJ L 341, 18.12.2013, p. 73.
(279) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.ec.europa.eu/easme/verf.
(280) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(281) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/214 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.38.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.38.6.
3.38.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.38.8.
The Court therefore analysed the accounts, including the hierarchical position and non-compliance of EU agencies, as well as the issue of timely (new) approval of invoicing systems.
The Director of the Financial Department of the Agency shall be the Head of the Financial Department.
The Court therefore considers that the consistency of the accounting officer should be clarified by direct submission to the Director (administrative matters) and the Steering Committee (functional matters) of the Agency.
3.88.9.
In addition, the mandate of the Agency was significantly extended in 2014: it currently manages EU action in various fields in cooperation with the seven Commission Directorates-General.
Despite significant changes in the Agency's procedures and a significant increase in its budget and staff, the invoicing system was revalidated in 2012.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish uniform rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (282). Since this requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing all IT covering all stages of procurement procedures; it launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.38.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented reports on the management of COSME (Competitiveness Programme for Enterprises and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises) by the Agency and the administrative procedures of the Agency's staff department[283].
The Agency has developed action programmes to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years. (282) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the eGovernment.
(283) The Court has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/215 PL ADDITIONAL Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years The commitment rate for the following financial year was high in both Title II (administrative expenditure) EUR 1 250 000 and 33% (EUR 998 324 and 14% respectively) and in Title III (the Agency's operating aid) respectively EUR 2 550 000 and 62% (EUR 4 million and 65% respectively) in 2015.
Title II mainly concerned rent (EUR 0.6 million) and purchase of equipment which had not yet been delivered at the end of the year (EUR 0.5 million).
The appropriations under Title III concerned the evaluation and monitoring of the LIFE programme by external experts (EUR 1,5 million), ongoing ex post audits (EUR 0,5 million) and IT services (EUR 0,5 million), which were commissioned in 2016, but were partly carried out at the end of the year and have not yet been cleared.
The Agency may decide to introduce separate budgetary measures to better reflect the multi-annual nature of the contracts and the unavoidable divergences between contracts, supplies and payments.
The high rate of cancellation of appropriations from the previous year in Title I (staff expenditure) indicates that these appropriations were too high.
Year 2016: correction status (completed/in progress/present/n.d.)
DE C 434/216 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.38.8.
The Agency is of the opinion that its internal control system provides sufficient assurance as to the effective division of tasks and the independence of the accounting officer.
The Court of Auditors has been appointed by the Steering Board.
The Steering Committee shall adopt the previous and final invoice, the administrative budget and any other amendments.
The Director shall approve the main services to be provided by the auditor.
The Agency considers that the change in the current reporting and organisational structure would not have a significant impact on risk and control of accounting assumptions.
However, the Agency will closely monitor the situation and, if necessary, adapt organisational requirements and reporting requirements.
3.38.9. The Invoicing Team started approving the invoicing systems in December 2017 and concluded them in 2018.
3.38.10.
In the field of procurement since 2013, the Agency has introduced into the electronic invoicing system certain IT service providers, including complete electronic data processing and an automated interface for ABAC data flow.
Since 2018, electronic invoicing will continue to be developed and gradually applied to other suppliers, depending on their infrastructure and electronic equipment.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/217 3.39.
European Research Council Executive Agency (ERCEA) INTRODUCTION 339.1
The Executive Agency of the European Research Council ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the European Research Council Agency') ("the Agency') ') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency').
The Agency has been established for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017 and is to manage the specific programme ăIdeen under the Seventh Framework Programme for Research.
By Council Decision 2013/743/EU[285], the Agency has been given the function of an enforcement agency which is responsible for all administrative and practical aspects of the implementation of the Horizon 2020 research programme. Within the framework of the specific objective "Strengthening frontier research by the activities of the European Research Council in Part I of the ăExcellent scientific base (286).
3.39.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (287).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 47 total staff on 31 December (1) 477 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
WORDS in 2016 of 43 461 RIGHT TO PRACTICE 3.39.3.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (288) and the budget implementation reports (289) f not in the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts; (c) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the financial and financial situation of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and the net changes for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 9, 12.1.2008, p. 15.
(285) OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671.
(286) Implementation period 2014-2020.
(287) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found at www.erc.europa.eu.
(288) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(289) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/218 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.39.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.39.6.
3.39.7.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (290).
The Commission has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL SERVICES 3.39.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented an evaluation report on the procedures for completing FP7 (291) (292).
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(290) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the electronic administration (ăe-Government to administration).
(291) The 7th EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development.
(292) The Court has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/219 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years The tender and evaluation reports drawn up by the Procurement Committee and the Agency's Employment Committee do not provide a complete and practical picture of the procedures used.
Unsatisfactory reports undermine the transparency of these procedures.
In its September 2016 review report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency has undertaken a number of strategic and operational actions to improve the recruitment, engagement and allocation of its staff.
In this context, the IAS concluded that the Agency has developed and implemented appropriate human resources management to enable it to recruit competent and committed personnel in a manner that ensures that its objectives are met.
Although no critical or particularly serious problems have been identified, the Agency and the IAS have agreed on an action plan to further improve this procedure in certain areas.
Under Title III (operational expenditure), the appropriations for the following financial year were still high, i.e. EUR 1.3 million and 40% respectively (EUR 1,5 million and 43% respectively in 2015), which was broadly in line with the annual communication arrangements and actions.
The high rate of return is contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
Year 2016: correction status (completed/in progress/present/n.d.)
DE C 434/220 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.39.8. Currently, electronic submission of tenders is limited to open procedures (the thresholds are set out in Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and amounted to EUR 135 000 in 2017).
Since in 2017 the Agency did not start such a procedure and will not be able to do so in 2018, the Agency was not able to launch electronic submission of tenders in 2017.
In addition, the use of electronic offers will become mandatory in line with the Commission's action plan at the end of 2018.
Therefore, the start-up process started in 2018 and the Agency will be able to use electronic offers before the end of the year.
In the case of negotiated procedures, the Agency will use electronic submission of tenders once this option has been included in the module by the Commission.
3.39.9.
In accordance with the Action Plan drawn up by the Agency and approved by the IAS with regard to the preparation of FP7 projects on 9 April 2018, these actions were implemented by the ERC and presented to the Internal Audit Service (IAS) for their monitoring.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/221 3.40.
INTRODUCTION 3.40.1.
The Innovation and Network Executive Agency (INEA is not hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Brussels was established by Commission Implementing Decision 2013/801/EU[293], which replaces and succeeds the Trans-European Transport Network Executive Agency.
The Agency was established between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2024 for the management of Union activities in the field of Fazilit ăConnecting Europe.
3.40.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (294).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 24 Total staff on 31 December (1) 249 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
(c) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and cash flows and changes in the net value for the public sector in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer which are based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 352, 24.12.2013, p. 65.
(294) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.ec.europa.eu/inea verf.
(295) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(296) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/222 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.40.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.40.6.
3.40.7.
The following comments do not call into question the Court's opinion.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures (297).
Given that this objective also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing all IT, which covers all stages of public procurement procedures.
It initiated e-invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
INTERNAL SERVICE REPORTS 3.40.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the management of Phase 2 grants for project management and payments to Fizilit ăConnecting Europe in IEA (298).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation can be improved.
(297) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
(298) The Court has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/223 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years With respectively EUR 0.5 million and 48% (in 2015 EUR 0.5 million and 51% respectively) the rate of appropriations for the following financial year was high in Title III.
Year 2016 Date of correction (completed/in progress/ongoing/n.a.) n.a.
DE C 434/224 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.40.8.
By the end of 2017, the Agency introduced certain electronic invoicing procedures.
The invitation to tender and the submission of tenders by electronic means has not been carried out as it does not concern the Agency.
The amounts allocated shall be granted only on the basis of low value measures or existing framework instruments managed by the services of the European Commission.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/225 3.41.
INTRODUCTION 3.41.1.
The Executive Agency for Research ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency').
The Agency has been established for a limited period (from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017) and aims to manage specific Union activities in the field of research.
On 15 June 2009, the European Commission officially granted administrative and operational autonomy to the Agency.
On 13 December 2013, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
3.41.2.
The table below shows the main figures for the Agency (301).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 67 total staff at 31 December (2) 693 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
WORDS not made in 2016 63 628 LEGISLATION 3.41.3.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (302) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (303) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Commission therefore considers that it is not necessary for the Commission to consider that State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU as it is not compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU.
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's official, present net changes for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in all material respects.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
(300) OJ L 230, 19.8.1991, p. 1.
(301) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.ec.europa.eu/rea verf.
(302) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(303) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as extortion.
DE C 434/226 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.41.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.41.6.
341.7.
The following comments do not undermine the Court's view.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.41.8
The selection process of contract staff shows weaknesses.
Recruitment records and minutes of the selection panel meetings do not always contain criteria applicable to the selection of candidates from the recruitment database (304).
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures (305).
Given that this requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT version covering all stages of public procurement procedures, launching electronic invoicing tools (2010), publishing documents on online procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and submitting tenders electronically (2015).
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.41.10.
In May 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a report on the implementation of FP7 projects under the REA (306).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(304) In addition, reference is made to the management report of the Agency's staff presented in 2016 by the Commission's Internal Audit Service.
(305) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.).
(306) The Court has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/227 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years In its review report of December 2016, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the overall management of the Agency's staff is appropriate.
The Agency and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan with regard to the findings of the report.
A further IAS implementation report of May 2016 concluded that the Agency, together with the Commission, established an effective internal control system for the management of grants under Horizon 2020.
The Agency and the IAS have agreed together with the Commission on a corrective action plan with regard to a finding which was considered to be very important.
For the Commission, the Agency's results have been assessed externally in 2012-2015, which was presented in the final report in May 2016.
The conclusion of the evaluation is that, during the period under consideration, the Agency has carried out its tasks in an efficient, efficient and costly manner, that its mandate and its recommendations are still very important and that the Commission's management of operational tasks to the Agency has proved effective.
Nevertheless, the evaluators were also more effective and effective and the Agency and the Commission were asked to improve their internal dialogue and cooperation, communication and certain aspects of IT and human resources management.
The Agency and the Commission have agreed on a corrective action plan.
DE C 434/228 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.41.9
In 2016, a recruitment process was carried out in which deficiencies were identified and in 2016 a reserve list was drawn up and adopted which was used to present a job offer in 2017.
In accordance with the 2016 IAS Recommendation, the selection procedure for contract staff was reviewed and implemented at a later date in 2017.
Verified competitions for ber contract staff do not take into account requirements for clearly documented search criteria for people of age and age, as well as admission and selection criteria.
The search criteria used by the selection panels for looking at the barrels of life are documented in their session logs.
Therefore, the shortcomings in the revised procedure referred to by the Court have already been addressed.
In the field of procurement, REA shall be based on service contracts with the Commission or on Commission framework agreements.
The REA may initiate a special procurement procedure only if there is a special need which is not covered by those agreements or agreements.
In 2017, REA carried out only one low-value procurement procedure.
The current e-procurement and tender tools are only used for public contracts above the threshold of EUR 144 000. Since the REA did not initiate a procurement procedure above this threshold, it was not able to use e-procurement and electronic tender in 2017.
In addition, the introduction of an electronic invitation to tender and the electronic submission of tenders will be mandatory in line with the Commission's action plan at the end of 2018 for all EU institutions and agencies and therefore the implementation process has only started in 2018.
The Agency is already using electronic invoicing and will also use e-invoicing modules and electronic tenders as soon as these modules include mid- and low-value charges at the start of the tendering procedure.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/229 3.42.
EXECUTIVAGENTURE FOR CONSUMERS, HEALTH, AGRICULTURE AND FOOD (CHAFEA) INTRODUCTION 3.42.1.
The Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established on 1 January 2005 (2005-2008: Executive Agency for Health and Consumers (PHEA), 2008-2013: Executive Agency for Health and Consumers (EAHC), from 1 January 2014: Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food (307).
The Agency shall be established in Luxembourg and its mandate shall be lost until 31 December 2024.
The Agency shall implement the Community Health Action Programme, the Consumer Programme and the Better Training for Safer Food Initiatives.
3.4.2.2.
The main figures for the Agency (308) are presented in the table.
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 10 total staff on 31 December (1) 61 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
We analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (309) and the budget implementation reports (310) f.r. of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Commission therefore considers that it is not necessary for the Commission to consider that State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU as it is not compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU.
(307) Commission Implementing Decision 2013/770/EU
(308) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website: http://ec.europa.eu/chafea/ verf.
(309) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the routine accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(310) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of accounts.
DE C 434/230 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.42.5 According to our assessment of the revenue underlying it on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all relevant respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.42.6.
Emphasising facts 3.42.7.
Since the end of November 2017, the Agency's accounting officer has been absent.
On 13 December 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
This is contrary to Article 28 of the Agency's financial rules, which provides that the powers of authorising officer and authorising officer are separate and separate.
3.42.8.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.42.9.
In 2017, the Agency insufficiently documented recruitment procedures.
In this way, the grounds for transparency and equal treatment of candidates could be called into question.
In 2017, the Agency had difficulties in obtaining a sufficient number of tenderers in low and medium-value procurement procedures.
She only received one offer in each procedure.
3.42.11.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures (311).
3.42/12
The Agency shall publish employment notices for temporary staff on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Agency's budget is weak. Title III of the budget allocates EUR 1,6 million and 63% respectively (in 2016 EUR 1,2 million and 48 per cent of 2017 appropriations respectively for 2018.
Persecution of comments from earlier years 3.42.14
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years. (311) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the eGovernment.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/231 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years The Agency cancelled EUR 0.2 million and 18% of the appropriations allocated for 2015 (EUR 0.1 million and 14% respectively in 2014), indicating that in its planning the company took place.
The Agency transferred EUR 1,1 million and 48% (EUR 0,9 million and 52% respectively in 2015) of the appropriations for Title III (the expenditure related to the Agency's performance) to the following financial year.
These measures relate primarily to IT services and other studies that have been commissioned but have not yet been completed or completed by the end of the year.
The Agency cancelled EUR 0.2 million and 17% of the appropriations earmarked for this purpose in 2015, indicating unnecessary planning of needs.
Year 2015 2016 Date of correction (completed/in progress/residual/n.d.)
DE C 434/232 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 THE AGENCY'S REPLY PRESENTED BY FACTS 3.42.7. The annual accounts have been drawn up and signed by a designated and re-established authorising officer.
3.42.9 The Agency takes note of the Court's observation that the recruitment documents examined by the Court have not been adequately documented.
However, CHAFEA assured that no candidate was selected under this selection procedure because all candidates were treated in the same way.
3.42/10.
For these two low- and medium-value candidates, CHAFEA carried out all the activities recommended in the Financial Regulation: the ex ante announcement took place in accordance with the requirements and the number of candidates was invited to submit an offer, with all candidates having extensive experience in tenders and services.
For the period during which the tenderers were invited to tender, CHAFEA applied to Vademecum DG BUDGET f.E.
CHAFEA is currently testing several IT modules for electronic procurement, including electronic submission of offers.
The first invitation to tender in electronic form will be tested in the third quarter of 2018.
CHAFEA will fully comply with the European Commission Recommendation on the implementation of the electronic tender system by the end of 2018.
CHAFEA agrees that the publication of notices of employment by temporary staff on the EPSO website may increase their visibility. 3.42.13.
The Agency accepts the Court's observations.
The Agency will continue to seek further reductions in the C8 withdrawal rate and efficiency.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/233 This report, including 41 declarations of conformity for each agency and body, was adopted by Chamber IV chaired by Mr Neven MATESE, member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 18 September 2018.
Official Journal of the European Union C 373 58th year of 10 November 2015 Publication in German Content 2015/C 373/01 2015/C 373/02 Communication and announcements IV Information institutions, bodies and other bodies of the European Union Court of Auditors Annual Report of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 together with the institutions' replies............................................................................. 1 Annual Report of the Court of Auditors on the actions of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2014 together with the Commission's replies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Court of Auditors of the European Union, in accordance with Articles 287 (1) and (4) TFEU, Articles 148 (1) and 162 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Articles 43, 48 and 60 of Council Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 of 18 February 2008 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 567/2014, adopted the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 at its meeting on 10 September 2015.
These reports, together with the institutions' replies to the Court's observations, were forwarded to the discharge authorities and other institutions.
To the members of the Court of Auditors: Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (president), Igors LUDBORŽS, Jan KINŠT, Kersti KALJULAID, Karel PINXTEN, Henri GRETHEN, Szabolcs FAZAKAS, Louis GALEA, Ladislav BALKO, Augustyn KUBIK, Milan Martin CVIKL,rasa BUDBERGYT., Lazaros S. LAZAROU, Hans Gustaf WESSBERG, Pietro RUSSO, Ville ITÄLANE, Kevin CARDIFF, Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA, Iliana IVANOWA, George PUFAN, Neven MATES, Alex BRENNINKMEJER, Danièle LAMARQUE, Nikolaos MILIONIS, Phil Wyn OWEN, Klaus-HIN LEHNE, OskarERICS, Bettina JAKEN.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/3 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET (2015/C 373/01)
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/5 CONTENTS General introduction..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 2 - Budgetary and financial management..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 5 - Competitiveness for growth and jobs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 6 on economic, social and territorial cohesion................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 7 has nothing to do with natural resources..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Page 7 9 65 83 127 147 165 213 261 275
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/7 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 0.1.
The European Court of Auditors shall be the institution responsible for the financial control of the European Union (EU) in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU auditor, we contribute to improving the financial management of the EU and, at the same time, act as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
More detailed information on our work can be found in the Annual Activity Report, which is available on our website www.eca.europa.eu, as well as special reports on EU spending and revenue programmes and opinions on new or revised legislation.
This is our 38th annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, which concerns the financial year 2014.
The annual report on the European Development Funds shall be presented separately.
0.3.
The EU's general budget shall be adopted annually by the Council and the European Parliament.
Our annual report, together with the special reports, is the basis for the discharge procedure during which the European Parliament, on the basis of a recommendation from the Council, decides whether the Commission has carried out its budget implementation tasks satisfactorily.
Together with the transmission to the European Parliament and to the Council, we shall forward our annual report to national Parliaments.
0.4.
A key element of our annual report is the statement on the reliability of the consolidated accounts of the European Union and on the legality and regularity of transactions (hereinafter referred to as "the regularity of transactions").
This is complemented by a statement of assurance through detailed assessments of all the main areas of EU activity.
0.5.
The structure of chapters now reflects the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), and therefore our report is even more important.
The financial framework entered into force in 2014 with a view to determining the volume and distribution of EU expenditure for the period up to 2020.
This should make it easier for readers to establish a link between the findings in our report and the relevant budgetary and accounting information.
0.6.
There is no separate annual accounts for each MFF action and therefore the conclusions presented in the specific evaluations do not constitute an audit opinion.
0.7.
Our report this year is as follows: Chapter 1 provides a statement of assurance and a summary of the results of the audit of the reliability of accounts and the regularity of transactions. Chapter 2 presents our findings on budgetary and financial management. Chapter 3 sets out the strategic objective of improving the EU's public responsibility. Chapter 5 - 9 (Rubryki WRF 1a, 1b, 2, 4 and 5) ((1) presents the results of our checks on the regularity of transactions and control of selected systems and annual activity reports.
0.8.
The Commission's (or, where appropriate, other EU institutions and bodies' replies) responses to our comments are included in the report.
However, as an external auditor, our task is to present our findings from the audit, to learn from these findings, and thus to conduct an independent and impartial assessment of the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of transactions.
(1) How do I not present any detailed estimates of expenditure under the multiannual financial framework 3 (security and citizenship) and 6 (for compensation under the multiannual financial framework)?
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/9 DE CHAPTER 1 Statement of Assurance and Related Notes CONTENTS Statement of Assurance presented by the Court to the European Parliament and the Council on an independent auditor Initial EU expenditure is an important tool for achieving the policy objectives Audit findings for the financial year 2014 The financial statements did not reveal any significant false information on the regularity of transactions: Our general audit findings are unchanged but indicate a significant level of error There are many forms of corrective action with different impacts The summary report of the Commission confirms errors largely related to transactions with alleged fraud referred to in points I-XII 1.1-1.3 1.1-1.3 1.4-1.58 1.4-1.8 1.9 1.30-1.44 1.45-1.57 1.59-1.66 of Annex 1.1 of Annex 1.3 to Annex 1.5 to this Regulation.
DE C 373/10 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 PROPOSED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL DECLARATION OF THE COURT'S REALITY in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2014 and approved by the Commission on 23 July 2015 and (b) we have examined the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying that financial report in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Responsibility for the management of II. In accordance with Articles 317 and 318 TFEU and the Financial Regulation, the Commission is responsible for drawing up and presenting correctly the consolidated accounts of the European Union on the basis of internationally recognised public sector accounting principles and for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This liability shall include the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures necessary for the preparation and presentation of financial statements free from material or unintentional false presentations.
The Commission is ultimately responsible for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions of the European Union (Article 317 TFEU).
It is our task to present to the European Parliament and the Council, on the basis of our control, the statement of assurance of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
We have carried out our audit in accordance with international audit standards and IFAC professional behaviour requirements and international standards for the highest control bodies INTOSAI.
In accordance with these standards, we must respect the requirements of professional behaviour and plan and conduct studies in such a way as to ensure that the consolidated accounts of the European Union are free from material false presentations and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
IV. The audit shall include the carrying out of checks to obtain evidence of the audit of the value and other information contained in the consolidated accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The selection of audit activities shall be the responsibility of the statutory auditor, including in the risk assessment related to material or unintentional misconceptions in the consolidated financial statements, as well as in respect of material or unintended infringements of European Union law in respect of the underlying transactions.
When assessing those risks, the auditor shall take into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and proper presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, in order to plan the control activities appropriate to the circumstances but not intended to deliver an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
The audit shall include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting rules applied, the reasonableness of the estimates in the financial statements and the total consolidated financial statements.
V. With regard to revenue, as a starting point for our analysis of VAT-based and gross national income-based own resources, we use macroeconomic aggregates appropriate for their calculation and evaluate the data processing systems by the Commission until the Member States receive their contributions and until they are included in the consolidated financial statements.
As regards traditional own resources, we examine customs authorities' accounts and analyse the movement of customs duties until they are received by the Commission and until these amounts are included in the accounts.
1. Consolidated financial statements include balance sheet, profit and loss account, cash flow account, changes in net assets and summary of relevant accounting rules and other explanations (including segment reporting).
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/11 VI. As regards expenditure, we check payment transactions after making, accounting and accepting expenditure. This check is carried out for all types of payments, except advances, including payments for the purchase of assets, only after they have been made.
Advances shall be checked where the beneficiary has to provide or provide evidence of their correct use and the advance is cleared or may be recovered.
VII. We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as a basis for our examination opinions.
Reliability of the accounts The audit opinion on the reliability of accounts VIII. In accordance with our assessment, the consolidated accounts of the European Union for the year ending 31 December 2014 presents, in all material respects, the financial situation of the Union as at 31 December 2014, the results of its transactions and cash flows as well as the changes in net assets for the financial year ending that date, in accordance with the Financial Regulation and the accounting principles based on international public sector accounting standards. Legality and regularity of the underlying transactions Payment Audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying revenue IX. In accordance with our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 is legal and regular in all relevant respects.
On the basis of a wrong opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts X. Expenditure incurred in 2014 under operational appropriations in Chapters 1 to 4 of the multiannual financial framework (3) is heavily affected by errors.
Our estimated error rate in payments underlying the annual accounts is 4.4%.
Our proposal is confirmed by the analysis of the risk levels presented by the Commission in the summary report.
It follows from our assessment that the payments underlying the financial statements for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 have largely made errors because of the importance of refusing to deliver an opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the financial statements.
3. These headings will be discussed in Chapters 5 to 8 of this annual report.
10 September 2015 Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi, 1615 Luxembourg, LUXEMBOURG
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/13 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT PRELIMINARY EU expenditure is an important tool for achieving policy objectives 1.1.
EU spending is an important tool for achieving policy objectives.
Other important instruments are the regulation, the free movement of goods, services and capital and the free movement of persons throughout the Union.
EU expenditure averages 1.9% of total EU Member State expenditure (see Figure 1.1).
In line with the Treaty, it is our task, inter alia, to assess whether the spending of EU budget resources is in line with existing legislation and other provisions; to issue opinions on the annual accounts of the EU; to report on savings, efficiency and effectiveness (4) of EU spending; to present opinions on legislative proposals having financial implications.
Our audit work in support of the Statement of Assurance meets the first and second of these objectives.
This audit work allows us to identify risks that have a negative impact on economy, cost-effectiveness and efficiency.
It is also an important contribution to the opinion on the proposed financial rules.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
The principle of cost-effectiveness concerns the optimal relationship between the measures used and the results achieved.
The principle of effectiveness refers to the achievement of certain objectives and expected results.
EN C 373/14 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Chart 1.1 on EU expenditure in 2014 in each Member State as a share of total government expenditure Sources: European Union expenditure (European Commission accounting data collected by the Court).
Total government expenditure for 2014 (Eurostat not available) (http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/government-finance-statistics/data/database).
The country codes are explained in Annex 1.5.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.3.
In this chapter of the Annual Report on Reliability, we provide basic information on the Statement of Assurance and the review of our audit approach (see Annex 1.1), the audit findings and the conclusions of the audit; in this chapter we analyse the nature of the various risks related to EU expenditure; in this context, we describe the actions taken by the Commission as a result of the comments and recommendations on the reliability of the accounts that we presented in previous annual reports (see Annex 1.2).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/15 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT OF ACCOUNT OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 The financial statements did not show any significant false presentations 1.4.
Our comments relate to the consolidated accounts (5) (the annual accounts of the European Union for the financial year 2014).
On 23 July 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020.
The financial statements are accompanied by an analytical document on the Annual Statement Discussion and Analysis ((7), which is not the subject of our opinion.
However, in accordance with the audit principles, we have checked its consistency with the information contained in the financial statements.
1.5.
The annual accounts (see Annex 1.3 extracts) show that as of 31 December 2014 total liabilities amounted to EUR 220.7 billion compared to a total of EUR 162.7 billion.
The 2014 economic result is EUR 11.3 billion (see also paragraphs 2.12 to 2.13).
Our audit showed that the annual accounts did not contain relevant false information (see also Annex 1.2).
Our comments on EU budgetary and financial management are set out in Chapter 2.
5. The consolidated financial statements shall consist of: (a) the consolidated financial statements which shall include the balance sheet (which shall show the assets and liabilities at the end of the year), the profit and loss account (which shall include revenue and expenditure for the year), the cash flow account (which shall show the impact of accounting changes on the means of payment and cash equivalents) and the changes in the value of net assets, together with the corresponding explanations; (b) the aggregate report on the implementation of the budget covering the revenue and expenditure for the financial year, together with explanations.
(6) The preliminary accounts were received from us together with an accounting statement of completeness on 31 March 2015 which, in accordance with the Financial Regulation (see Article 147 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, is the final date for the transmission of the data.
The final accounts were received eight days before the date of transmission referred to in Article 148 on 31 July.
The revised version of the analytical document on the Commission's annual accounts on 1 September 2015 was forwarded to the Court.
(7) See guidance on recommended practice 2 for Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis within the IPSASB.
C 373/16 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.7.
In 2014, the Commission amended the presentation of the accounts several times.
The aim of these changes is to take into account the new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and to further adapt them to international standards.
Significant improvements have been made when providing some explanations on the annual accounts (8).
points affecting the annual accounts 1.8.
As regards the annual accounts: 1.8. (a) The Commission has made progress on: (a) clarification 6 on the annual accounts (on the protection of the EU budget for protection) in accordance with point 1.13 of the 2013 annual report and point 2 of this year's follow-up report (Annex 1.2).
The explanation now contains more detailed information.
With regard to cohesion policy, it indicates the extent to which corrections are made before the registration of expenditure, during implementation and during closure.
Moreover, although not always in a quantification form, this explanation describes the impact of corrective actions (such as the creation of assigned revenue, expenditure withdrawn and replaced by Member States, etc.) on the EU budget (9). b) Explanation 2.5.2 on pre-financing (advances for Member States) indicates that the Commission has limited information on the use of financial instruments under shared management (EUR 3.8 billion) and other aid programmes (EUR 3.6 billion).
The Commission may require significant adjustments when closing the programming period 2007-2013.
(8) Including a consolidated summary of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities and simplified reporting on segments.
(9) In its explanations 6 on the 2015 annual accounts, the Commission seeks to take account of the decision of the Court of Justice of June 2015 which annulled the decision on financial corrections amounting to EUR 457 million.
Judgment of the Court of Justice of 24 June 2015 in Joined Cases C-549/12 P and C-54/13 P on the annulment of the two Commission Decisions on the amount of EUR 94 million in connection with the ERDF programmes in Germany and Case C-263/13 P on the annulment of the three Commission Decisions on the EUR 363 million in respect of the ERDF programmes in Spain.
These decisions concerned expenditure incurred under the 1994-1999 operational programmes.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION C 373/17 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT on the regularity of transactions: Our overall audit results are unchanged but indicate a significant error rate 1.9.
We analyze EU revenue and expenditure to assess their compliance with applicable rules and other provisions.
We submit the results of revenue control in Chapter 4 and expenditure in Chapters 5 to 9 (see Table 1.1).
1.10.
Revenue was not significantly affected by errors (see paragraph 4.26).
With regard to expenditure, we still see a significant level of error.
The estimated error rate in expenditure (after taking into account appropriate corrective actions, see point 1.32 (10)) was 4.4%, as was the indicator for 2013 (4.5% (11)) (see Table 1.1).
Expenditure under the MFF 5 (Office) was not significantly affected by errors (see point 9.15).
For all other operational expenditure items, expenditure was heavily affected by errors (see paragraphs 5.32-533, 6.76-6.77, 7.72-7.73 and 8.26-8.27).
The controlled population (euro billions) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Item 1a 13.0 5.6 3.1 8.1 Division 1b 55.7 5.7 3.1 8.2 Division 2 57.5 3.6 2.7 2.7 4.6 Division 4 7.4 2.7 0.9 4.4 Division 5 8,8 0.5 0.1 0.9 (10) for applications that have not led to payment or reduction of payments, should not be compared to the level of final payments.
(11) The estimated error rate as set out by us in the annual report for the financial year 2013 was 4,7%.
A similar estimate is 0.2 percentage points lower since our new approach to quantifying infringements of public procurement rules has been applied (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
C 373/18 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 DE WRF-Rubryka Verified population (euro billions) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (EUL) Heading 3, 6 and other 2.1 in Annual Report Other (1) Total Revenue Estimated error rate 2013 (%) 4,5 0 143,9 0 0 0 (1) We do not present any specific assessment or separate distribution of expenditure under heading MFF 3 (Security and Citizenship) and 6 (performance) and other expenditure (special instruments outside the MFF 2014-2020, such as emergency aid reserve, European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the European Union Solidarity Fund and the Flexibility Instrument).
However, the audit work in these areas contributes to the overall proposal on expenditure for the financial year 2014. Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.11.
Overall, over the last three years, the results of the studies have remained relatively stable at a significantly higher level than our materiality index (see Figure 1.2).
REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.11.
The Commission notes that the error rate notified by the Court constitutes an annual estimate which takes into account the invoicing adjustments for projects made before the Court's audit was announced.
The Commission recalls that it is bound by a Financial Regulation in which Article 32 (2) (e) provides that its internal control system should, inter alia, ensure adequate management of the risks associated with the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multiannual nature of the programmes and the nature of the payments concerned.
In its 2014 summary report (COM (2015) 279 final), the Commission assessed the future impact of correction mechanisms on EUR 2.7 billion, representing 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
The Commission will continue to exercise its supervisory role by making financial corrections and recovery at a level corresponding to the level of irregularities and shortcomings identified throughout the period as well as at the end of the programmes.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/19 Graph 1.2 according to the estimated error rate (most likely error rate, MLE is not required) (2012-2014) (1) The approximate error rate for 2012 and 2013 has been adjusted to take account of a new approach to quantifying serious infringements of public procurement rules (see paragraphs 1.13).
Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.12.
EU expenditure consists mainly of two types of expenditure programmes which have very different risks (12): programmes based on payment entitlements where payment depends on the fulfilment of certain conditions; these programmes include scholarships for students and research grants (Chapter 5), direct aid for farmers (Chapter 7), direct budget support (Chapter 8) and remuneration and pensions (Chapter 9); programmes for the reimbursement of eligible costs by the EU, including research projects (Chapter 5), programmes for investments in regional development and rural areas (Chapter 6 and 7), training programmes (Chapter 6) and development projects (Chapter 8).
(12) These different risks are described in detail in points 1.20 to 1.22.
(13) Budgetary support payments contribute to the general budget of the country concerned or to the resources allocated by it under a specific policy or objective (see also paragraphs 8.7 and 8.8).
DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT New approach to scrutiny...
In 2014, we reworded our approach to quantifying serious infringements of public procurement rules.
This approach explains how we assess the effects of these infringements.
In particular, we have introduced a proportionate approach to calculating the errors associated with the change of contract.
1.14.
In order to ensure comparability of the results presented in this report, we have adjusted the figures for 2012 and 2013 in Table 1.1 and charts 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 in line with this new approach.
Annex 1.4 presents unadjusted historical data on estimated error rates established for the period 2009-2013.
As a result, the total estimated error rate was reduced by 0,2% in 2013 and by 0,3% in 2012.
The adjustment does not affect the conclusions we have reached for these years, and this is still a very important level of error.
1.15.
In 2015, we will adapt our approach to cross compliance to the revised legal framework of the common agricultural policy.
Although we will continue to report on the information provided by the Commission on cross-compliance, this element will no longer be the subject of our control activities.
This year we have discovered many cross-compliance errors for every fourth of the farms visited.
The proportion of these errors in the estimated total error rate is 0,2 percentage points (2013: 0,2) ((14))) and 0,6 percentage points (2013: 0,5).
The Commission welcomes the revision of the Court's approach since 2015.
As regards 2014, the Commission confirms its view that the breach of cross compliance does not affect the eligibility conditions for payments (see the Commission's reply to paragraph 7.7).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/21 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT... and the new structure of our annual report 1.16.
As described in the general introduction (see paragraphs 0.5-0.7) we have changed the structure of the chapters of our annual report.
For the purposes of comparability below (Figure 1.3), the results of the last year audit would be presented if both the new chapter structure and the new approach to quantification of infringements of public procurement rules were applied (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
We used this data in Table 1.1.
Figure 1.3 in 2013 reclassification of audit results on the basis of the structure of the annual report for the financial year 2014 and taking into account a new approach to quantification of infringements of public procurement rules: the European Court of Auditors taking into account the revised structure of the annual report and the new approach to quantification of serious infringements of public procurement rules.
1.17.
As shown in Figure 1.4, the cohesion area contributes most to our estimated level of error in 2014 and then to the areas of "natural resources," "competitiveness" and "Europe" in the world.
This breakdown is in line with our 2013 findings.
EN C 373/22 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Graph 1.4 contributed to the estimated total error rate in 2014 according to the MFF Index Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.18.
Errors in the eligibility of refund schemes represent the main percentage of errors detected in 2014 (see also paragraphs 1.20 to 1.22, Figures 1.5 and 1.6). (a) In the case of reimbursement of expenditure, the estimated error rate is 5.5 % (2013): 5.6 %).
Typical errors in this area include the inclusion of ineligible costs in the statement of expenditure, ineligible projects, actions or beneficiaries, including serious breaches of public procurement rules during the award of public contracts, serious breaches of public procurement rules during the performance of the contract (i.e. changes in contracts and additional work).
REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.18. (a) The Commission has also identified similar problems in its audits.
During the 2007-2013 programming period, the Commission has made considerable efforts to identify the actual cause of the problems and, where appropriate, to take corrective action.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/23 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT b) For programmes based on payment entitlements, the estimated error rate is 2,7% (2013: 3,0%).
Typical errors in this area include: incomplete data on land by farmers, administrative defects in payments made by farmers.
Figure 1.5 for the total estimated number of errors by type of error Source: European Court of Auditors.
1.19.
The figures for 2013 presented in Figure 1.5 are drawn up on the same basis as those for 2014, i.e. on the basis of the approach described in point 1.13.
C 373/24 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT ON THE TYPE OF EXPENDITURE AND ErrorS are closely linked 1.20.
We analysed the relationship between the type of expenditure and the risk of error.
In the case of EU expenditure, the level to which the correct calculation of payments to beneficiaries depends on the information provided by the beneficiaries themselves.
This applies to the largest category of expenditure schemes based on payment entitlements: area aid paid to farmers.
This is particularly important for refund schemes: the beneficiaries must provide information in the application confirming that they are involved in eligible operations and have incurred eligible costs.
This applies to all types of management (15).
1.21.
Figure 1.6 is based on all audits carried out in relation to EU expenditure over the last two years, both for annual reports on the general budget and for the European Development Fund (16).
Cash flow is grouped according to their type.
The size of the circles on this chart means a share of the total expenditure, with their appropriate positioning along a line of 45 degrees indicating the estimated error rate and its colour indicates whether it is entitlement or reimbursement-based expenditure.
1.22.
This chart contains both elements of discretionary recognition (assessment of the impact of systems and risks associated with the type of operation, see Annex 1.1, point 1) and empirical elements (estimated error rate over the two-year period).
Firstly, it aims to meet the wishes of our addressees for more information on the different risk profiles, and secondly to help the Commission take action in areas where the error rate remains high.
1.20.
The Integrated Management and Control System (IACS), including the Land Parcel Identification System (LPIS), contributes significantly to preventing errors and reducing error rates (see paragraph 7.32).
The PSC shall be established and operated by the national authorities.
Payments to final beneficiaries are only possible after comparison of their claims with the data available in the land identification system.
Thanks to the LRIS, the error rate for area aid is lower than for all other types of aid under shared management.
The Commission considers that the boxes 1.2 and 1.3 confirm this position.
(15) Direct management (directly implemented by the European Commission), indirect management (non-EU countries, international organisations, etc. entrusted budget implementation tasks), shared management (shared between the Commission and the Member States).
(16) Assessment based on the same approach in both years (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/25 Chart 1.6 on the relationship between the type of operation, the risk and the estimated error rate for EU transactions (2013-2014) (1) The return on global position includes projects financed by several donors, which in practice have a number of characteristics for payment entitlements systems and show a lower error rate.
C 373/26 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT The results in various expenditure areas indicate different error patterns 1.23... Competitiveness (Chapter 5): The estimated error rate is 5,6% and is therefore higher than the corresponding error rate in 2013 (4,0%[17]. Most expenditure is based on reimbursement of costs and errors in this area reflect substantially different categories of ineligible costs (mainly personnel costs, other direct costs and indirect costs).
1.24. Community (Chapter 6): The estimated error rate is 5.7%, which exceeds the corresponding 2013 results (5,3% (17)).
Almost all expenditure in this area is in the form of reimbursement.
The main reasons for errors are serious infringements of public procurement rules (approximately half of the estimated error rate) and then ineligible costs in declarations of expenditure (more than one quarter of the estimated error rate).
The infringement of State aid rules and ineligible projects is the remainder of the error.
1.25. in natural resources in this area (Chapter 7): the estimated error rate is 3.6% and is therefore lower than the corresponding error rate in 2013 (4,4% (17)).
The European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF) accounts for more than three quarters of the expenditure in this area and this fund is less vulnerable to errors than the rural development sub-sector for which we have long established a high level of error, in particular with regard to expenditure incurred on the basis of reimbursement of costs.
Overall, over-the-number of areas or animals by farmers has contributed to around one third of the estimated error rate.
Errors related to ineligible beneficiaries, actions or expenditure were the second highest percentage (about a quarter of the estimated error rate).
The main remaining shares constitute a breach of cross-compliance (one sixth) and an administrative error (one sixth).
1.23.
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 5 of the annual report (paragraphs 5.6-5.17).
1.24.
See Commission replies to Chapter 6 of the annual report (paragraphs 6.23-6.45 and 6.76).
1.25.
The lower error rate for the EAGF reflects the effectiveness of the HACCP system and, in particular, the LRIS system when correctly implemented in order to prevent errors from the first moment of the process.
The Commission considers that the CCS is generally a sound system for managing CAP expenditure.
See also paragraphs 1.15 and 1.20, paragraphs 7.15 to 7.19 and paragraphs 7.25 to 7.29.
(17) This comparative number takes into account both the reallocation of budget lines in order to ensure that chapters reflect the MFF principles and the new approach to infringements of public procurement rules.
See also Figure 1.3.
DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.26. not only Europe in the world (Chapter 8): The estimated error rate is 2,7% and is therefore higher than the corresponding error rate in 2013 (2.1% ((18))) ((19).
The ineligible costs reimbursed by the Commission represent more than half of the overall error rate.
Payments for unrealised works, services or supplies shall constitute a quarter of the total error rate.
The rest is due to the lack of supporting documents (about one tenth of the estimated error rate), incorrect calculation of expenditure and breaches of public procurement rules.
1.27. for management (Chapter 9): the estimated error rate is 0.5 %, which represents a decrease compared to the corresponding 2013 results (gross %) (gross %) (gross %).
Most of the expenditure in this area concerns salaries, pensions and allowances paid by EU institutions and bodies.
A small number of errors in the area of additives represented the largest percentage of errors in this area, which is not fundamentally relevant.
1.28.
As explained in the general introduction, we do not create a separate chapter for expenditure which does not fall within the scope of the MFF 1, 2, 4 and 5.
Therefore, the remaining expenditure of a total amount of EUR 2.1 billion (1.5% of the expenditure covered by our control) is presented in this Chapter (20).
Of the total amount of EUR 2.1 billion, EUR 0.5 billion was allocated to expenditure incurred by and by the 10 agencies subject to our special annual reports[21].
The main errors identified in this area were the reimbursement of ineligible costs (see Box 1.1).
(18) This comparative number takes into account both the reallocation of budget lines in order to ensure that chapters reflect the MFF principles and the new approach to infringements of public procurement rules.
(19) Most of the expenditure provided for in the chapter "External relations, external assistance and enlargement" of the 2013 annual report has remained in the relevant chapter on the "Europe in the world" MFF policy in the same chapter; a small proportion of these expenditure is currently covered by the chapter "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" and see also Figure 1.3.
(20) See footnote 1 to Table 1.1.
(21) European Judicial Cooperation Office, European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union, European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-Scale Information Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, European Asylum Support Office, European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, European Food Safety Authority, European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, European Police College, European Police Office, European Agency for Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
C 373/28 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT Box 1.1 on the example of errors in the reimbursement of costs related to the project under the MFF 3 on security and citizenship in our sample constituted payments made by the Commission to a beneficiary acting as coordinator of the draft cooperation under the Fundamental Rights and Citizenship programme under the Fundamental Rights and Citizenship programme.
The public institution which received the aid divided two permanent employees (officials) into half a day per project and counted part of its remuneration in the project cost report.
Members' staff shall bear such additional costs only if it is necessary to employ additional staff to replace officials in their normal activities and therefore actually bear the costs.
These costs are not eligible because the beneficiary has not taken any action to replace officials.
The total ineligible costs notified by the recipient of the aid amounted to EUR 58 000 from the total costs invoiced at EUR 237 000.
For eight of the 25 MFF 3 projects, we identified ineligible costs which were reimbursed by the Commission.
Box 1.1 on errors in the reimbursement of project costs under the MFF 3 Security and citizenship in the Commission was known as the difficulties of public institutions in complying with the eligibility rules applicable to staff costs of public bodies (other staff to replace staff employed in ordinary activities).
Therefore, since 2011, the Commission has amended the eligibility rules applicable to employees of public bodies, using the flexibility provided for in the rules implementing the Financial Regulation.
Consequently, the ineligible costs laid down by the Court in this financial assistance (staff costs in public bodies which are not eligible for substitution aid) are now considered eligible for aid.
1.29.
The total estimated error rate for shared management expenditure is 4,6% (in 2013: 4,9%[22]) and 4,6% (in 2013: 3,7%[22] for all other operational expenditure[23]).
The estimated error rate in administrative expenditure is 0.5 % (2013: 1,0% (22)).
(22) This comparative number takes account of a new approach to infringements of public procurement rules.
See also paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14.
(23) These expenditures are mainly covered by Chapters 7 and 8, but partly also by Chapters 5 and 6.
The high level of error in shared management expenditure is based on an analysis of 687 transactions (the population of EUR 113 billion).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/29 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT There are many forms of corrective action with different consequences 1.30.
Our analysis of errors and corrections in this area is aimed at familiarising ourselves with complex mechanisms for implementing and recording corrective actions and explaining the different ways in which these mechanisms can affect our control work.
In some areas of expenditure, the Commission will have new instruments if expenditure is incurred in the new programming period.
Corrective measures 1.31.
We are trying to take account of the corrective actions taken by the Member States and the Commission prior to payment or investigation.
We also note the corrections made after the inspection has been announced, but we cannot reduce the estimated error rate each time the check itself triggers the corrective action (24).
We verify the application of these corrections (including recovery of funds from beneficiaries and corrections at project level) and, where appropriate, adjust the calculation of the error rate.
However, the effects of corrective action vary considerably depending on the area of expenditure and corrective action.
1.32.
The Commission and the authorities of the Member States have taken corrective measures in respect of 24 sampled transactions in 2014, which had a direct impact on the operation and were relevant for our calculations.
These corrective actions have led to a reduction in our estimated error rate by 1.1 percentage points (in 2013 1.6 percentage points), representing around EUR 1.6 billion.
Changes in the number of operations concerned and the impact on the estimated error rate do not indicate that corrective actions are more or less effective: due to the relatively small part of our sample, it can be expected that fluctuations will occur from year to year.
1.30.
The Commission considers that the annual representative error rate of the Court should be considered in relation to the Commission's ability to correct the various annual activity reports and in the summary report.
The Financial Regulation requires appropriate consideration of the risks associated with the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multi-annual nature of the control systems and the nature of the payments.
1.31.
Joint response to points 1.31 and 1.32: In its 2014 summary report (COM (2015) 279 final), the Commission assessed the future impact of correction mechanisms on EUR 2.7 billion, representing 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
The figures by policy area are presented in Table 1 of the Summary Report.
The Commission stresses that any financial corrections and recovery of undue expenditure exclude reimbursement from the EU budget (see explanatory note 6 to the accounts).
(24) See points 1.19 to 1.37 of the annual report for the financial year 2012.
The Commission uses the terms "financial corrections" and "deliveries" to take account of the wide range of corrective actions that apply both before and after the Commission (or reimbursement) of expenditure.
1.34.
The 6.2.2 explanations on the financial statements set out the total amount of EUR 3285 million for corrective actions in 2014.
Graph 1.7 shows how we classify adjustments made at different stages of the expenditure cycle.
A quarter of all corrective actions in 2014 consist of corrections and recovery made on the basis of the source, i.e. before the Commission makes the related payment (25).
The next fourth takes the form of withdrawing and replacing expenditure related to cohesion projects (at the time of implementation or at the time of closure of operational programmes). 1.33.
The Commission considers that the terms "financial corrections" and "recovered" are applied in accordance with the legal framework set out in the Financial Regulation and relevant sectoral legislation.
For more detailed information on the different preventive and corrective mechanisms provided for in the applicable legislation, see note 6 of the EU Financial Report and the Communication on the protection of the EU budget.
(25) As regards the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, the corrections notified in 2014 as regards the source amount to EUR 430 million, of which 75% has already been made in previous years.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/31 Graph 1.7 does not concern corrective actions taken in 2014 (*) Commission decisions (mainly decisions on conformity in the field of agriculture), corrections leading to cancellation of commitments and recovery of amounts from beneficiaries. (**) Reduction of reimbursement of costs and inclusion of new projects/costs in the implementation and closure of programmes. (**) Corrections before payment under shared management, ineligible amounts and credits under direct and indirect management (as included in note 6 as amounts recovered).
Source: Explanation 6 on EU consolidated accounts for 2014 and data underlying them.
With regard to cohesion policy, the classification of pre-payment and withdrawal amounts shall be based on an analysis of the corrections made during that period.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.35.
The corrective actions discussed in this Section of the annual report shall also cover the actions of the Member States' authorities as well as recovery operations by national authorities and the Commission.
C 373/32 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 10.11.2015 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT The effects of corrective actions are largely evident when the Commission accepts expenditure 1.36.
All relevant sectoral regulations on shared management contain provisions on pre-control or reduction of amounts declared by final beneficiaries prior to the certification of expenditure by national authorities.
In some cases, national authorities also agree to reduce or remove certain costs which, due to errors with long-term consequences, appear in declarations (such as continuous payments under a contract where there is an error in public procurement rules).
Such adjustments may have a measurable impact on the level of refund or aid paid to individual farmers and the correction contributes to reducing our estimated error rate.
1.37.
With regard to direct and indirect management, the amounts deducted by the Commission shall include the deduction of ineligible amounts before the approval of payments in respect of applications for costs.
The eligibility of amounts shall be determined on the basis of an examination of the documentation available or of the results of the checks carried out (see also Figure 1.7).
This also allows us to lower our estimated error rate.
Conformity decisions (financial corrections in agriculture) are often taken on a flat-rate basis.
In general, they refer to system flaws rather than errors at the level of final beneficiaries.
In rare cases, they involve the recovery of quotas from the farmers concerned.
Such corrective measures encourage Member States to improve their management and control systems.
They contribute to the legality and regularity of transactions at the level of final beneficiaries if they lead to permanent improvements in the accounts of expenditure accepted by the paying agencies (see Boxes 1.2 and 1.3).
In addition, the Commission services shall recover funds on the basis of the source by deduction of ineligible expenditure (as defined in previous or current accounts) from payments made.
1.38.
The financial corrections made by the Commission in respect of agricultural expenditure are intended to protect the EU budget and are imposed on Member States.
They do not directly lead to recovery from farmers because the Commission does not pay directly to final beneficiaries, but returns payments made by Member States to farmers.
However, where payments are not correct as a result of the conformity clearance procedure, the Commission expects Member States to continue to implement them by recovering funds from beneficiaries.
See response to Box 1.3.
The paying agencies shall implement conformity decisions by reducing future requests from the Commission for reimbursement of payment costs to farmers.
The Commission shall record the full amount paid to farmers as expenditure, i.e. the correction does not entail a reduction in the amount of payments registered.
Instead, the difference between payments to farmers and refunds to paying agencies is recorded as assigned revenue available for the financing of agricultural expenditure (26).
More than two thirds of the financial corrections in 2014 in the area of cohesion at the same time replace new expenditure,...
1.40.
In the area of consistency, financial corrections for more than two thirds of the total amount included in the report shall be those where public authorities in the Member States withdraw expenditure incurred and replace it with new expenditure.
For some cases of withdrawal, no specific projects can be considered withdrawn.
Instead, Member States report additional projects and therefore receive a de facto lower level of co-financing.
1.40. The Commission considers that any financial corrections, including those which allow Member States to introduce new projects and new expenditure to re-use adjusted amounts, protect the EU budget from illegal expenditure and encourage Member States to recover amounts from beneficiaries (and thus contribute to improving management and control systems).
However, the deterrent effect of net financial corrections for which Member States cannot re-use the corrected and recovered amounts and thus lose their financial resources is certainly higher.
(26) For example, where the paying agency in the agricultural sector makes a financial correction of 5% and makes a payment of EUR 100 million to farmers, the Commission will reimburse it with EUR 95 million and the Commission will cover expenditure of EUR 100 million to be covered by assigned revenue of EUR 5 million.
C 373/34 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT... whereas net corrections are made less frequently 1.41.
Where it is not possible to replace, adjustments for a Member State lead to the loss of EU funds[27]. This case may occur, although relatively rarely when Member States are unable to provide sufficient eligible expenditure and substitution is no longer possible (28) or is no longer allowed (29).
The Commission expects net adjustments to be applied as a result of changes in legislation in the future. 1.41.
For example, in agriculture, the legislator decided to apply a similar net financial correction mechanism for the 2014-2020 programming period to cohesion policy.
This provides an additional incentive for Member States to prevent or detect serious irregularities in their management and control systems before submitting their accounts to the Commission.
Otherwise, and if the Commission or the Court continue to detect serious deficiencies after the transmission of the financial statements, the Commission must make a net financial correction in accordance with the conditions laid down in the relevant regulations, which means a loss of funds for the Member State.
Furthermore, the Commission considers that any financial corrections and recovery of resources under shared management have a negative impact on national budgets, regardless of how they are implemented.
In order to avoid the loss of EU funding, a Member State must replace ineligible expenditure with additional operations eligible for aid.
This means that the Member State and its national budget bear the financial consequences of losing EU co-financing from expenditure declared ineligible unless it recovers amounts from individual beneficiaries.
(27) Either as a reduction in payments or as a return to the EU budget, which leads to assigned revenue (see Figure 2.2).
(28) After the programmes have been completed.
(29) In the absence of an agreement between the Member States and the Commission (see point 1.25 (b) of the annual report for the financial year 2012).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION C 373/35 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT In 2014, the Commission and the Member States applied all these forms of corrective action 1.42.
Box 1.2-1.4 presents various types of corrective actions and their effects. Box 1.2.2 Example of improvements in management and control systems In Greece: Improving the land identification system The Commission has taken steps to improve the farm parcel identification system (LPIS), which serves as the basis for payments to farms, e.g. under the single payment scheme (the largest EU spending system).
This process took place at various stages and led to a reduction of permanent grassland from 3.6 million hectares in 2012 to 1.5 million hectares in October 2014, covered by the LRIS.
Non-compliance with the rules on sustainable green land not eligible for EU aid for several years has been a key factor in our estimated error rate for natural resources in.
We have taken into account the impact of adjustments for individual payments to final beneficiaries, which have been the subject of our sample of EAGF and European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
Another effect is that the paying agency rejected a number of ineligible applications, which resulted in the corresponding expenditure falling out of our sample.
Box 1.2 on an example of improving management and control systems Greece: Cleaning up the area identification system Other examples of positive impact of action plans are presented by the Court in Chapter 7.
Action plans shall be implemented whenever deemed necessary and the Commission shall carefully monitor their implementation and report on the corrective actions taken in the Annual Activity Report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
The land identification system prevents beneficiaries from seeking claims in respect of agricultural land which does not exist or which does not fulfil the eligibility conditions, or in respect of agricultural land for which another beneficiary has made a claim.
With proper implementation, it is a very effective tool to reduce error rates.
It covers 75% of CAP expenditure.
According to the annual activity report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development for 2014, the error rate in area payments is lower than for other measures.
C 373/36 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 10.11.2015 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT Box 1.3 on examples of corrections resulting from the conformity clearance procedures (30) on conformity decisions 47 and its consequences for French farmers In 2014, France adopted an adjustment of EUR 1.1 billion (EUR 984 million for EAGF and EUR 94 million for EAFRD)[31].
The national authorities have stated that this will not affect farmers and that this amount will be financed from the national budget.
In previous annual reports, we stressed that this approach does not encourage beneficiaries to correct errors (32).
The main reasons for the correction were weaknesses in the LRIS/GIS system (EUR 695 million) and exceeding the ceiling for payment entitlements, which led to an excessive payment for farmers (EUR 141 million).
Another reason, although to a lesser extent, was the violation of the principle of cross compliance with the timely notification of movements of animals (EUR 123 million).
All these reasons relate to payments made between 2009 and 2013.
No adjustment was made in 2014 and the breach of the ceiling for payment entitlements and non-qualifying areas covered by the PRC in France contributed to 0,3 percentage points of our estimated error rate for natural resources this year.
Box 1.3 as regards the corrections resulting from the compliance clearance procedures in Decision 47 on compliance and its impact on French farmers under shared management, Member States are responsible for ensuring the proper functioning of control systems.
A financial correction of EUR 1.1 billion will be reimbursed to the EU budget in three annual instalments (2015-2017 and 2017).
The Commission notes that, given the nature of the ex-post conformity clearance procedure to be applied, after the end of the year and after the end of the adversarial period in which the Member State concerned can present its own arguments and calculations, it is very rare that the financial correction will be made in the following year of expenditure.
The ongoing clearance of accounts procedure will ensure the protection of the EU budget for 2014.
Box 1.4 on corrections that led to additional expenditure: the ESF in Romania In our annual reports for the financial years 2012 and 2013 we drew attention to corrective actions in Romania.
In 2013, we managed to reduce the estimated error rate for a number of Romanian projects of the European Social Fund (ESF) because national authorities identified the impact of the corrections at project level.
This is also the case in 2014.
For some of the projects that we are investigating, there are still errors arising from problems that are not covered by corrections.
In its 2014 Annual Activity Report, Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Integration (DG EMPL) indicated that it continued to monitor the implementation of the agreed action plan.
Corrected financial corrections do not necessarily mean that Romania will receive less EU funds because Member States can benefit from the possibility of recovering more expenditure (33).
(30) Procedure for several years to recover amounts paid to Member States where these payments are incompatible with EU rules or where there are shortcomings in the management and control systems of the Member State.
See also paragraph 7.59.
(31) France subsequently appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union against the decision to impose a financial correction.
(32) See points 1.26 and 1.32 of the annual report for the financial year 2012.
(33) In practice, this would mean a reduction in the rate of EU co-financing.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/37 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT In its report on corrective actions, the Commission does not always quantify their different effects...
1.43.
Explanation 6 on annual accounts is largely voluntary disclosure which is not required in accordance with accounting principles.
A significant part of this information does not come from accounting systems.
The explanation describes the different impacts of the various adjustments to the EU budget, but not always in quantitative form... and further improvements would allow for a better analysis of 1.44.
The Commission's ability to improve the quality of expenditure is linked not only to the amounts concerned but also to their impact.
A rigorous assessment of the impact of corrective actions requires better identification of the type of corrected error and the way in which corrections are made (34).
Where the relevant Commission Directorates-General assess the impact of their corrective actions, they shall make the necessary adjustments to the figures set out in note 6 (see point 1.55).
The Commission's summary report confirms significant errors in transactions 1.45.
Each Directorate-General of the Commission shall draw up an annual activity report.
This report shall include a report on the implementation of the main policy objectives (approved in Chapter 3), a management report prepared by the Director-General for the College of Commissioners and a statement in which the Director-General (Directives) accepts the assurance that the financial information contained in the report is adequately presented and that the transactions covered by its responsibility are legal and regular.
1.43.
The legislator has provided the Commission with an instrument of financial corrections to ensure that expenditure effected unlawfully is not financed by the EU budget.
Financial corrections relate mainly to system failures that lead to a risk of error.
The task of the Member States, not the Commission, is to establish irregular amounts and recover them from the beneficiaries.
If this is not the case, EU funds will be replaced by national funds, as national budgets have to bear the cost of financial corrections.
1.44.
Some services have adjusted their figures in clarification 6 with regard to the protection of the EU budget in order to make it possible to estimate future corrections in relation to their specific circumstances.
(34) See paragraphs 1.13 to 1.15 of the annual report for the financial year 2013.
C 373/38 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.46. The summary report summarises this information and declares that, when adopting the summary report, the Commission assumes overall political responsibility for the management of the EU budget.
1.47.
This section of the chapter contains the results of our analysis of the Directorate-General's annual activity reports and the Commission's summary report[35].
The focus will be on the coherence and adequacy of the Commission's estimates on the level of error at the time of reimbursement or reimbursement of its own expenditure by the Commission (the Commission refers here to the amount of risk, most of which are corrected by subsequent corrections (the Commission refers to its ability to correct or to future corrections of most of it). (36)
The Directors-General shall report annually on the regularity of 1.48.
If the Directors-General are unable to guarantee the reliability of a significant part of the expenditure, they raise reservations (see Box 1.5).
Directors-general should act in such a way that, in the event of an event which has had a serious impact on the reputation of the Commission, or where the impact of the estimated error rates minus the financial corrections already made and the recovery of funds is still significant.
(35) The summary report and the Commission's annual activity reports are available on the Commission's website: Summary report: http://ec.europa.eu/network/planning-and-preparing/synthesis-report/index_en.htm, annual activity reports: http://ec.europa.eu/network/synthesis/aar/index_en.htm.
(36) See summary report, footnotes 10 and 13, pages 14 and 15.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/39 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT Box 1.5 on the reservations contained in the 2014 Annual Activity Reports. In 2014, the Directors-General raised 20 substantive objections to 17 in 2013.
The increase in the total number of reservations is due to three new reservations of the Directors-General of the Communication, Content and Technology Network (37) and the Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations Policy (DG NEAR) (38) (37) and the Services for Foreign Policy Instruments (FPI) (40);
In 2014, the conditional expenditure fell from EUR 2.4 billion in 2013 to EUR 2.3 billion in 2014 (43).
1.49.
The European Parliament resolution on discharge for 2013[44] calls on the Commission to further clarify the calculation of the amount of risk by clarifying the estimated impact of corrective mechanisms on this number.
(37) Reservation for the Information and Communication Technologies Policy Support Programme (ICT) of the countries participating in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), as the residual error rate exceeds 2% (2.94%).
(38) Reservation for indirect management by beneficiary countries as the residual error rate exceeds 2% (2,67%).
(39) The problems identified in the 2013 Annual Report led to a new reservation due to the reputation of DG NEAR (previous DG Enlargement, see paragraph 7.16 of the 2013 Annual Report).
(40) Reservation for expenditure under the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) since the residual error rate exceeds 2% (2.13%).
(41) The Directorate-General for Regional Policy and Rural Development (DG REGIO) has divided its repeated reservations on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)/Cohesion Fund (FS)/Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) into two reservations, on the one hand ERDF/FS and on the other IPA.
(42) The Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE) has removed reservations regarding programmes for the eradication and monitoring of animal diseases in the area of food and feed policy in.
(43) See summary report, Annex 2.
(44) Report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2013, Section III for the Commission and the executive agencies 2014/2075 (DEC) (A8-0101/2015).
DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.50.
As requested by the discharge authority in 2014, the Commission developed internal guidelines (45) for the submission of information in annual activity reports.
Directors-general are now to present the average error rate detected (46).
The application of this error rate to total payments for a given year leads to the calculation of the risk amount for the amount of W.R.C.C.[47].
The summary report presents this amount together with estimates of the future capacity to correct ex-post controls carried out by the Commission. The Commission acknowledges that expenditure is heavily affected by errors,...
1.51.
In its 2014 summary report, the Commission identified a risk of between EUR 3.7 billion and EUR 5 billion.
This corresponds to between 2.6% and 3.5% of the payments included in the 2014 summary report[*48].
These figures show that total expenditure is largely affected by errors... but refer to the estimated impact of future corrections 1.52.
The 2014 Summary Report provides for the total estimated value of future corrections (correction potential).
Based on the corrections registered over the last six years[49], the Commission estimates that it will be able to detect and correct errors of around EUR 2700 million in the coming years.
(45) Standing Instructions for the 2014 Annual Activity Reports (SEC ((2014) 553).
(46) This is the level of error detected or estimated at the time of payment (not the residual error rate), i.e. without correction resulting from errors corrected after the fact.
