Annual Activity Report 2007 EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF FIRST INFRASTRUCTURE
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2008 ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 © European Communities, 2008 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
3 4 no 5 5 6 no 7 7 8 no 1317 18 no 25 26 5 no 5 5 5 6 no 7 7 8 8 no 5 5 5 6 6 6 6 no 7 7 8 no 1317 18 no 25 25 26 7 3 4 5 6 5 5 3 5 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 5 5 6 3 h 3 h 5 h h h h h h h i h h h h h h h h i h h h i i h h h h in h h h h in h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h i h h h h h i h h h h h h h h h in h in h h h h in h i t h in h h h i t h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h t h h h t h h h h h h h h h h in h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h t h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h t h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h t h h t h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h t h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h t h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h t h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h t h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
VIEW OF THE PRESIDENT 4 One of the main objectives of the Court and its tasks of transparency and accountability is to bring the European Court of Auditors closer to EU citizens.
I am therefore very pleased to welcome you as a reader of the first annual report on the activities of the European Court of Auditors.
The purpose of the report is to provide an overview of the Court's situation and the Court's activity report in 2007, in the year in which it celebrates the European Union's 30-year external audit activity, which, in accordance with its mission, contributes to the improvement of the EU's financial management and is an independent guardian of the financial interests of Union citizens.
The Court shall make its main contribution to its audits and reports which enable the audit authority to improve its financial management and assist the discharge authority (the European Parliament and the Council) in the control of the implementation of the EU budget.
This report reviews the audit reports published in 2007 and includes the main proposals for the implementation of the EU budget for 2006 and for sound financial management within the EU budget.
The Court not only informs about the financial management of previous years but also actively participates in the creation of an EU financial control framework.
2007 was very important for EU financial management.
In part of the financial instruments, the Court discussed the Court's opinion on significant changes in the responsibility of the Member States and the Court's contribution to the public consultation on the budgetary reform launched by the European Commission.
None of the Court's 2007 results would have been possible without the involvement, know-how and competences of 850 employees.
Staff is the main capital of the future-oriented body that strives for continuous improvement.
This first annual activity report contains detailed information on the Court's reform process, which started in 2006 with self-assessment.
Progress was made in 2007 in the implementation of the Action Plan and the so-called peer review procedure was launched at the end of 2007 under the direction of a group of auditors which belong to the national accounting offices of Canada, Austria, Norway and Portugal.
The first outcome of this reform process was the following declaration on the mandate, guidelines, values and strategic objectives of the Court, which will be based on future actions on which the Court will report in due time.
I wish you a great deal of joy in reading the first annual activity report and I hope that this will be of benefit to you.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
6 AGREEMENTS, AGREEMENTS, AGREEMENTS AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible, in accordance with the Treaty, for the control of the EU's finances.
As an external EU auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and, at the same time, acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
7 Value Independence, honesty and impartiality Professionality Added Value Excellence and efficiency Independence, honesty and impartiality for institutions, its members and employees.
Providing suitable test results to addressees, with any form of influence being rejected from the outside by instructions or pressures.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Develop relevant and timely high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account stakeholders' issues and taking into account important and guiding statements.
contribute to the effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and the improvement of the responsibility for the management of EU funds.
Promoting the spirit of teamwork through effective communication.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES In order to implement its mission, the European Court of Auditors took note of the following strategic objectives: Professionality of collective productivity Development and growth Audit methodology, adequate audit strategy, evolution of audit practice in the public sector, the development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards from the EU budget, cooperation with EU-ORKB, an effective Community audit framework Development and growth: selection of the relevant audit topics, approach to time, transparency and readability of the reports, the quality of the economic audit, increase the impact of reports on the development of relations with the audit entities with the aim of improving understanding of the audit process and greater acceptance of the audit results; strengthening contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as the budgetary authority and discharge authority; and effective communication with EU citizens using peer review experience to strengthen and develop peer review processes with a view to achieving the highest level of effectiveness; implementation of effective and dynamic personnel policy, quality vocational training and modernisation of infrastructure;
8 THE THE COURT'S ROLE AND WORK IN WHAT ROLE THE COURT'S ROLE?
The European Union budget is around EUR 120 billion, representing around 1% of gross national income (GNI) in the 27 Member States.
This represents a small percentage compared to national budgets.
However, for some Member States EU funds play an important role in the financing of public activities, which corresponds approximately to the GNI of some countries, for example Romania.
Over time, the structure of the budget has changed and agricultural and cohesion policy are the main areas of expenditure (see Box 1).
The budget shall be adopted annually by the Council, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and by the European Parliament, directly on a proposal from the European Commission, on the basis of a seven-year financial framework.
The Commission is implementing the budget on its own, but is sharing a large part of its administrative tasks with the Member States, in particular with regard to agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure.
Depending on the expenditure system, national authorities may be responsible for defining the expenditure strategy, selecting beneficiaries and projects, as well as for the implementation of payments.
A specific feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments on the basis of applications from beneficiaries, whether farmers or project managers, across the Union.
9 BOX 1 is how does the EU spend what it does?
The EU budget serves to a large extent objectives other than national budgets, partly depending on different areas of competence.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually represent the majority of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which generally takes the form of payments to farmers across the Union, has been the main contribution of budget expenditure, although the trend is currently decreasing.
In 2008, slightly less than half of the budget allocated to the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly in agriculture and rural development.
Since the 1980s, a significant proportion of expenditure has come from cohesion, i.e. regional and social development, in order to co-finance a wide range of projects, from the construction of roads in Slovakia to the training courses for the unemployed in Denmark.
In 2008, expenditure on sustainable growth, some of which are cohesion expenditure, was estimated at 38% of the budget.
This heading also covers a significant proportion of the EU's research funding.
About 6% of the budget is spent on the management of the Community institutions.
EU expenditure Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1% European Union as a global partner 6% Governance 6% Cohesion in and in the EU h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
Democratic companies need complete and reliable publicly available information that will form the basis for discussion and decision-making both to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
The European Court of Auditors acts as an external EU auditor who ensures that EU funds, wherever they are used, have been properly booked and spent in accordance with the rules, taking due account of the optimal spending of funds.
The Court's audit work is used by the Commission, Parliament and Council and by the Member States to improve the EU's financial management.
In addition to the Court's work, many national audit authorities control EU funds, provided that they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
Review of the internal and external audit of the EU budget at level 10 Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing bodies European Court of Auditors National at national level Audit of Internal Audit
The Court applies three different types of audit to 1: audit of accounts, compliance audit (compliance check) and economic audit, which of the following three issues is the starting point of the audit: 11 • • • Does the accounts contain, in all material respects, a true, fair view of the financial situation, the results and the cash flow of a year, in accordance with the current accounting framework? • The Court applies three different types of audit to 1: audit of the accounts, check of compliance with the rules (compliance check) and economic control, which of the three following issues is the starting point of the audit: 11 • • • • • Does the accounts contain, in all material respects, a true, fair view of the financial situation, results and the cash flow of a year in accordance with the current accounting framework?
According to the Treaty, the Court is required to issue such a statement or a review opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual statement of assurance is commonly known under the French acronym DAS ( commonly known as the acronym "Déclaration d Courisurance " (The acronym DAS).
1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
The Court carries out an audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with the International Audit Principles (ISA), which apply both in the public and private sectors.
The Court, in cooperation with the national audit bodies, actively participates in the development of international audit standards, which in turn are promoted by standardisation bodies (Intosai, IFAC) 2.
In order to ensure compliance of payments with the rules and legal framework, the Court is based on the results of both the analysis of supervisory and control systems to prevent and detect and correct errors of legality and regularity and the sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Where systems are checked and considered reliable, the number of operations which the Court will have to examine will be reduced in order to reach credible conclusions on their legality and regularity.
With regard to the selection of topics for performance control, the Court seeks to identify the control areas for which the greatest impact can be expected to be determined, to identify the potential for improvement in terms of savings, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending.
12 2 Intosai (International Organization for Supreme Audit) International Federation of Accountants (International Federation of Accountants).
13 BOX 2 included in the EU budget in respect of the EU budget in respect of the Court's audits of all EU budget operations, the Court does not have the means necessary to carry out a detailed evaluation of all EU budget operations.
The Court follows these measures up to the final recipient of aid, e.g. the farmer in southern Germany.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks, for example, in order to determine the size of the agricultural land, in order to determine whether the data contained in the aid application comply with the reality.
Population of all agricultural payments By applying a statistical sample, the results can be calculated for the population, i.e. for a specific area of revenue or expenditure, and together with the information resulting from the evaluation of the system can be used as a basis for the evaluation of the overall assessment.
This chart shows how the Court operates to determine transactions for the purpose of carrying out a detailed review.
In practice, the Court's random controls are more complex, for example on the basis of a two-stage sampling procedure to improve the effectiveness of the audit work.
accidentally reviewing a representative sample of payments to a German farm €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€ €
14 THE Structure of Structures of Structures of Structures of Structures and Organisation of Structures of Structures of Structures of Structures of Structures of Structures of Structures of the European Court of Auditors The Court of Auditors shall act as a collegial body composed of 27 members, composed of one member from each Member State.
As is apparent from the Organisation (see page 17), there are four thematic control groups covering different budgetary areas (the retention and management of natural resources of four structural policy areas, transport, research and energy... external policies designated by Member States, own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or coordination, communication, evaluation, quality assurance and development) is responsible for horizontal issues such as coordination in the area of assurance, quality assurance, the development of the audit methodology by the Court, and the dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports.
In addition, a management committee composed of members of all audit groups shall be responsible for preparing all administrative matters requiring a formal decision of the Court.
MEMBERS of the Court shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, for a six-year term, as proposed by each Member State.
In addition to the functions of the College, which is responsible for final decisions on audits and opinions, as well as for further strategic and administrative issues, each member shall be responsible for its specific tasks, in particular in the field of audit.
The member shall then accept the presentation of the report to the audit group or the Court and after its adoption in the European Parliament, the Council and the other interested parties.
On 1 January 2007, together with the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, the Court welcomed two new members, Nadešda Sandolova and Ovidiu Ipir.
A year later, on 1 January 2008, the Court adopted three new members: Michel Cretin (France), Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) and Harald Noack (Germany) because the mandates of their predecessors had expired.
In addition, the Council extended the term of office of four members (Greece, the Netherlands, Austria and the United Kingdom) for another six years.
(SK) Igors LU) Irena PETUSTRA PETA Irena PETA PETA PET (SK) Irena PET LARS KALJULAID (EE) Lars HEIKKKsten (SE) Harald Noack (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri Grethen (LU) Maart B. Egwirda (NL) Július Molnár (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEKEVICIEN (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČ (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Iuan PET) KELA (S-KEIS-AHAM (S) JULA (AL LAM-ALLA) KAM (SI (ALA (SI) MAM).
The President-in-Office of the European Court of Auditors shall be the President, elected from among the members of the European Court of Auditors for a period of three years, with the possibility of voting again.
The President's role is a priority interpares.
The President shall represent the Court in all its external relations, in particular in relations with the discharge authority, with the other institutions of the European Union and with the highest audit bodies of the Member States and of the beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, a Portuguese member, was elected President of the Court.
The Secretary-General Secretary-General shall be the highest-ranking member of the institution and shall be appointed by the Court for a period of six years which may be re-elected.
The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the management of the Court's staff and staff, including vocational training, and for the Directorate-General for Translation, with the exception of Gaelic language, broken down by official language (22).
The Secretary-General shall also be subject to the General Secretariat.
The mandate of the current Secretary-General of the Court of Justice, Michel Hervé, was extended on 1 July 2007.
THE COURT'S STAFF Human resources of the European Court of Auditors amount to approximately 850 employees (836 on 31 December 2007) and include auditors (484), translators (162) and administrative staff.
The Court's auditors shall have broad profiles and appropriate professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in the field of accounting, financial management, internal and external audit, and in the field of legal and economic sciences.
Like other EU institutions, the Court employs citizens of all Member States.
18 SUMMARY OF THE AUDIT REPORTS AND 3 THE COURT'S OPINION The results of the Court's audits on accounting and compliance audits are in most cases included in the annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF) and in the specific annual reports on Union agencies and bodies.
Performance control results shall be published during the year in the form of special reports.
The Court shall also publish opinions on draft legal acts having an impact on financial management.
ANNUAL REPORT 2006 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET As the Court has repeatedly stated in its annual reports on the implementation of the EU general budget, the relevant and relevant internal control systems set up by the Commission and the Member States are key to ensuring the sound financial management of the EU.
In recent years, the Court has recognised the Commission's efforts to promote and apply improved internal control and management procedures, both with regard to the reliability of the EU's annual accounts and to the legality and regularity of the operations set out therein.
The 2006 Annual Report continued this tradition by identifying areas where significant improvements are needed in some cases, as well as significant areas of expenditure where the situation is still unsatisfactory.
The Court found that the final annual accounts of the European Communities, showing the implementation of the EU budget for 2006, provide a fair and fair view of the financial situation and the Community's performance in all material respects, except for the showing of excessive amounts in respect of commitments and advance payments in the balance sheet.
It is therefore considered necessary that further improvements are made to ensure that the newly introduced accrual accounting rules are fully satisfactory and that their potential as a reliable management and control tool is fully exploited.
3 This section aims at bringing it into the Court's reports and opinions and not the summary thereof.
For more information, see the full text of the Court's documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
As regards the expenditure areas included in the final accounts of the European Communities, in respect of expenditure areas where the majority of payments come from agriculture (mainly agricultural expenditure not covered by the integrated management and control system (IACS), structural measures, internal policies and external policies, the Court concludes that there are still serious errors in these expenditure areas.
For payments in these areas, supervisory and control systems have only partially reduced the risk of errors in legality and regularity in transactions.
The Court stresses that complex or unclear eligibility criteria or complex rules have had a significant impact on the legality and regularity of the operations.
However, the Court noted a significant decrease in the estimated overall level of errors in the agricultural operations and found that the IACS is an effective system for reducing the risk of irregular expenditure, insofar as it is properly applied.
Furthermore, the Court concluded that the underlying transactions did not show significant errors, including payments related to administrative expenditure, a significant part of the pre-accession strategy and part of the external policy (see Box 3). 19
20 BOX 3 IN THE FRAMEWORK FOR THE WEEKLY REVIEW OF JUSTICE AND THE JUSTICE OF THE WEEKS OF THE EXPENDITURE The table summarises the overall assessment of the supervisory and control systems on the basis of the summary set out in the relevant chapters of the 2006 annual report and provides an overview of the results of the audits carried out by the Court in respect of the representative samples of transactions.
These systems are considered to be partially satisfactory when certain control mechanisms are considered to be working properly and others are not.
Therefore, they may not be able to limit errors in underlying transactions to an acceptable level at all.
The report highlights some shortcomings in the functioning of the supervisory and control systems.
The table highlights only the most important information, but the details cannot be fully explained.
It is recommended that readers take note of the full analysis in the main part of the 2006 annual report.
Detailed evaluations in the Annual Report for the financial year 2006 Common agricultural policy Functioning of the supervisory and control systems Functioning of the control systems Divergence in the control of errors Common control and control systems Common control and control and control systems Common control systems Common control and control policy Common control and control systems Structural policy and internal policy Common control and control systems Operational supervisory and control systems with satisfactory partially unsatisfactory error rates below 2% (below materiality threshold) in the range of 2% to 5% over 5%
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (EFF) In 2007, the Court also published an annual report on the European Development Fund (EFF).
While the Court was able to deliver an opinion on the reliability of the EDF accounts to the full, the opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions on the basis of which the payments approved by the delegations in the beneficiary countries were limited in the light of the material error in the operations.
OTHER ANNUAL REPORT In addition, a further 28 special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies and an annual report on the assessment of the effectiveness of the management of the European Central Bank were published in 2007.
SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 2007The Court published a total of nine special reports in 2007.
The reports dealt with research on financial management issues in many different fields, ranging from VAT cooperation (No 8/2007) to capacity building in distant countries such as Angola and Vietnam (No 6/2007).
The Court's audit revealed various types of problems with different consequences.
With regard to the expenditure of the EU institutions on buildings (No 2/2007), the shortcomings identified by the Court show that not all EU funds have been used for this purpose.
The shortcomings identified in the report on monitoring, inspection and sanctioning systems with regard to the rules for the conservation of Community fish stocks (No 7/2007) may have serious consequences not only for water resources but also for the future of the fisheries sector.
Despite the different uses of resources in the different areas of the EU budget, the Court's reports show a number of common themes, which can be considered as follows: 22 • • • Despite the fact that the use of resources should be both fast and effective, tensions may arise in the pursuit of these two objectives.
This topic is the subject of the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and the Commission report on the management of the CARDS programme in the Western Balkan countries (No 5/2007).
Although planning does not guarantee effectiveness, it is important.
Issues related to strategic and long-term planning were discussed in the reports on the expenditure of the EU institutions on buildings (No 2/2007) and the evaluation of the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development (RTD) (No 9/2007) and in the two external assistance reports, one for CARDS (No 5/2007) and the other on the effectiveness of the capacity-building technical assistance (No 6/2007).
The Commission's evaluations are a key element of their performance management system in the performance evaluation process and, where necessary, in order to identify the need to improve performance.
If the evaluation takes place at an early stage in the programming cycle, this means that progress is insufficient and insufficient data is available for the evaluation.
On the other hand, it is possible to reduce the possibility of making changes in due time in the current period, as well as improvements before the start of the next period, where evaluations will be carried out at a later date.
The issue of a proper evaluation schedule was addressed both in the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and in the report on the evaluation of RTD (No 9/2007).
23 • • Evaluation, like audits, is more difficult when the objectives of the spending programmes are unclear; this is another subject raised in the last two reports.
The management and control of EU expenditure are subject to complex rules and must be made clear and clear to ensure that the appropriations are used for the purposes set out.
Clear definitions and rules are crucial for the collection or use of resources in accordance with the timetable.
This was the subject of reports on the European Refugee Fund (No 2007/2007) and on the control of goods and substitutions carried out by Member States in the field of agricultural exports (No 4/2007).
The lack of common definitions is one of the factors that may affect the completeness, comparability and reliability of data from different Member States.
This may have consequences where data are the basis for a decision, including the allocation decision.
24 Special Report No 1/2007 Special Report No 2/2007 Special Report No 4/2007 Special Report No 5/2007 Special Report No 6/2007 Special Report No 8/2007 Special Report No 9/2007 The implementation of the medium-term procedures of the Structural Funds for the period 2000-2006 Expenditure of the institutions on buildings The management of the European Refugee Fund (2000-2004) The control of goods and the substitution of products for which a refund has been granted, the management of the CARDS programme by the Commission The effectiveness of technical assistance in capacity building, monitoring, inspection and sanctioning in respect of the rules for the protection of Community fisheries resources Cooperation by the management institutions in the field of VAT Evaluation of the Union framework programmes for research and technological development in research and technological development in which the Commission could improve its approach?
OPINIONS PUBLISHED In 2007, the Court also contributes to improving the EU's financial management by issuing opinions on proposals or issues relating to financial management.
These opinions are required under the procedure for the adoption of financial rules 4 or may be issued at the request of one of the other institutions of the Community 5. In addition, the Court may issue opinions on its own initiative.
The Court's opinions may concern certain areas of expenditure, such as the two 2007 opinions, which concern the new regulations of the European Development Fund (Nos 2/2007 and 9/2007).
They may also cover broader issues related to EU financial management, such as the Court's opinion on the annual summaries, national declarations and audit work of the national audit authorities (No 6/2007).
Opinions are based on the Court's expertise in managing the EU's financial management over the years in the course of the audit and in some cases relate to certain audits.
For example, in its opinion on ensuring the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation (No 3/2007), the Court recalls the recommendation in the previous special report that the Commission should take action to improve the reliability of sources of information on fraud.
The need for simplification is a recurring issue in the Court's opinions (see, for example, Opinion No 7/2007 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities).
In its 2007 opinion (No 6/2007), the Court presented its position on the annual summaries as well as on the so-called national own-initiative declarations presented by certain Member States.
This opinion is discussed in detail in the section on the Court's position.
4 5 Article 279 of the Treaty.
Article 248 (4)
Most of the Court's opinions have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union and are available on the Court's website.
26 SUPERVISION AND EFFECTIVENESS In modern democratic society, the financial control of the public sector, with a view to effective financial management, plays a key role.
The control activities shall be communicated to the addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, in order to determine whether their taxpayers' money is spent properly and properly.
Public financial control is a fundamental element of accountability and a useful basis for public debate.
In this respect, the Court's activities have significant potential for impact.
The Court's audits serve decision-makers in the relevant institutions in the European context, in particular the Commission, the Parliament, the Council and the Member States, as a direct source of information.
On the basis of this information, they may take action, with or without reference to the conclusions of the checks.
Although the Court's audit activities have a major impact on the published reports, the Court's activities already have an impact on the audit process as a whole.
In particular, all checks shall lead to detailed checks to be submitted to the audited entity to confirm the accuracy of the Court's observations.
The final text of the report shall also be subject to the adversarial procedure.
The German Commission shall not publish the answers of the investigating authority together with the reports.
In its replies, the audit authority often presents the problems identified by the Court and presents the measures it intends to take to resolve them.
Following the audit work and the publication of the report, the audit results shall be assessed and used by Parliament and the Council to carry out their policy tasks to monitor the use of budgetary resources.
In the framework of the annual discharge procedure, the Court's reports form the basis of the Council's recommendation and Parliament's decision.
The 2006 discharge procedure drew particular attention to the Court's conclusions on structural measures.
In its resolution on discharge for 2006, Parliament refers directly to the action plan proposed by the Commission following the conclusions of the Court's annual report and asks for quarterly reports on its implementation.
Parliament also calls for a better view of the corrective action taken to remedy errors and errors.
Special reports shall also be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, given that they are published during the year, the presentation of special reports and the discussion of them took place at Parliament and the Council meetings, usually at an earlier stage.
A good example of possible further action is the recent special report on building expenditure (No 2/2007).
Parliament has already entrusted its administration with preparing a report assessing the possibility of creating a European Construction Office entrusted with the building and maintenance of European Union institutions and bodies.
The Court's report on the checks on agricultural exports (No 4/2007) carried out by the Member States can be given as a further example.
The Council and the Commission responded promptly to the Court's recommendations and amended the existing rules.
The effectiveness of audit reports can be increased in view of them in the relevant media, paying more attention to them and encouraging public debate.
The media is the most direct source of information for citizens.
As a general rule, the press reports in the Court's annual report are fairly comprehensive, but the press has also followed some special reports with interest.
The report on fisheries (No 7/2007) is of great interest to the media.
In order to discuss the Court's report, an Extraordinary Council for Fisheries was set up and the Commission launched a procedure which could lead to amendments to the legislation in order to address the shortcomings identified.
This is an example of a report which, due to its relevance and relevance, can make a very valuable contribution to the decision-making process.
This section provides some guidance on the impact of the Court's reports published in 2007.
Detailed information on the follow-up of the Court in the past is provided in the relevant chapters of the Court's annual report.
The Court's most widespread comment in its most recent annual report is that, in spite of the recent action taken in the last year, the doubts detected in the previous year were only partially removed.
Opinions should also be considered when analysing the impact of the Court's work.
The Court's task is increasingly to analyse the long-term effects of its work of the undertaking at the same time as its opinions on the subject, as well as its effects on the subject, as well as its effects on the subject of the subject, on the subject of its effects on the subject of the work of the undertaking, on the subject of the on the subject of its assessment, on the assessment of the long-term impact of the effects on the long-term performance of the performance of the undertaking on the subject of assessment, the assessment of the performance of the assessment of the performance of the undertaking, the assessment of the assessment of the impact of the effects of the performance of the performance of the subject-matter of the subject-matter of the assessment of the assessment and the impact of the assessment of the outcome of the outcome of the assessment of the performance of the assessment of the assessment and the assessment and the assessment of the outcome of the outcome of the outcome of the assessment of the assessment of the assessment of the assessment and the assessment of the outcome of the impact of the assessment of the outcome of the assessment and the assessment of the assessment of the performance and the outcome of the assessment of the assessment of the performance of the outcome of the performance of the Court's of the outcome of the performance of the evaluation of the performance of work on the evaluation of the work and the performance of the assessment of the evaluation of the work and the evaluation and the evaluation of the evaluation of the performance of the evaluation of the assessment of the evaluation of the evaluation of the assessment of the assessment and its work on the assessment of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the Court of the assessment of the evaluation of the evaluation of the Court of the assessment of the outcome of the evaluation and the evaluation of the assessment and of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation and evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the assessment and the of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation and the of the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation of the at the evaluation of the evaluation of the evaluation. of the evaluation.
This can be illustrated by the example presented in Box 4.
27 BOX 4 TO THE COURT'S OPINION ON PARTICIPTION Over the years, the Court has published several opinions setting out ways to strengthen the overall system of internal control of the EU budget.
The opinion on a single study in 2004 (No 2/2004) made a significant contribution.
In this opinion, the Court proposes to introduce the definition and implementation of the entire internal control system into a single integrated control system, including common principles and guidelines, and to ensure a proportionate level of costs and benefits.
Opinion on a single audit in 2007 on a reference document for the Commission, but also for the Court, in its comments on the definition of effective and effective internal control in the updated rules for the implementation of the Financial Regulation (opinion No 1/2007).
The integrated audit approach is reflected in the Commission Action Plan for the Integrated Internal Control Framework for 2006.
The Commission has taken steps to highlight the role and responsibilities of the Member States in the field of internal control, including the new commitment to submit annual summaries of opinions, declarations and audits carried out in accordance with the regulations applicable to the various areas of expenditure.
28 THE COURT'S OPINIONS SUMMARY AND DECLARATIONS The Commission and the Member States have taken initiatives to increase the involvement of Member States in the cycle of responsibility for EU measures.
The aim is to address in part the problem of significant errors in legality and regularity in the main areas of budgetary expenditure, in particular in areas in which the Commission and the Member States co-manage these actions.
Important recent events are the obligation of Member States to submit annual summaries of available research results and declarations, voluntary initiatives of certain Member States to submit national declarations, and the decision of certain national audit authorities to draw up audit reports on the management of EU funds.
In its opinion No 6/2007, the Court considers that all these elements, if properly implemented, can contribute to better management and control of EU funds.
The opinion sets out the conditions under which these elements can be added value and can be applied by the Court in accordance with international control standards in accordance with the requirements.
Since annual summaries form part of the internal control system, the Court will assess, within the framework of its usual control procedures, to the extent that they improve the functioning of internal control.
Annual summaries, to the extent that they reflect strengths and weaknesses, may lead to improved overall control of EU funds in the areas of shared management.
National statements are based on voluntary initiatives by some Member States, which are issued at the highest level and transmitted to national Parliaments.
Although they do not in themselves constitute conclusive evidence, they constitute a new element of internal control and provide valuable information on the implementation of the EU budget.
The Court recognises the potential benefits of the statements of national and national audit work with a view to raising awareness of the importance of internal control of EU funds in the Member States.
The audit work carried out by national control authorities (national control reports) on the legality and regularity of EU expenditure or by national declarations could provide the Court with evidence of the control if the Court is able to verify the suitability and quality of the audit work in accordance with international control standards.
In such a case, the Court will take into account the information provided by the national control authorities in the planning and carrying out of its own controls.
National declarations and control reports shall contain declarations concerning control systems.
National declarations may also contain certain audit opinions on the legality and regularity of transactions.
Experience has shown that the main risk to the legality and regularity of transactions is the reliability of the information provided by the beneficiaries when they ask for EU funding and not the way in which the data is processed by the Member States and the Commission.
A declaration that systems operate in accordance with the requirements of the EU Regulation cannot guarantee the legality and regularity of the transactions in question.
Recognising the need to increase the role of national audit authorities in the overall context of responsibility for EU expenditure, the EU Supreme Audit Authority Contact Committee has set up a working group on the harmonisation of audit standards and standards, adapted to the EU context.
Common methods and methods of control shall increase the possibility for the Court of Justice to use the work of the national control authorities, provided that the quality of the work is directly demonstrated.
EU BUDGET BUDGETografiaisation In September 2007, the Commission published a consultative document aimed at launching an open debate on EU funding in the framework of a wide-ranging budget review.
At the beginning of April 2008, the Court presented its contribution to the debate, in which it presented the key principles to be taken into account when drawing up the new programmes in order to ensure European added value in order to ensure clarity of objectives, simplification, dealing with reality, transparency and accountability.
The Court recommended, inter alia, that: • • • • targeting expenditure programmes not according to expenditure but according to results; making better use of the concept of acceptable risks when drawing up and adopting expenditure programmes; the degree of discretion to be granted to national or regional authorities in the management of expenditure programmes and financial reporting on expenditure; whether own resources under VAT continue to be a sensible part of the own resources system; taking due account of all the compensatory mechanisms that comply with the guiding principles of the own resources system; the degree of fairness, transparency, cost-effectiveness, simplicity and cost-effectiveness of the individual Member States in terms of cost-effectiveness29.
30 THE COURT'S WORKS IN 2007 AND THE AUDIT WORKS IN 2007 The Court presents its future audit work annually in the work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and available to the public on the Court's website.
The Court monitors the implementation of the work programme as a basis for improvement in the coming years.
In 2007, there was a significant increase in the number of specific annual reports adopted on European agencies and other decentralised agencies.
The number of special reports and opinions developed at a similar level as in previous years.
Annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Fund have been published as planned.
Results 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 Special Annual Reports 23 20 23 29 Opinions 2 11 8 9 In 2007 the Court first applied its new Assurance model (in order to ensure the security of controls) to achieve the most effective results.
The Court also decided to provide more detailed information on the results of its Statement of Assurance, in particular on the results of the audits of individual transactions.
The Court considers that this is linked to the provision of useful information for monitoring purposes, which will enable the measurement of the progress of financial management, together with the schematic presentation of the results of the system assessments.
The Court's action plan and procedures have continuously sought to improve all aspects of its work.
In 2005, the Court decided to undergo peer review.
In this case, senior staff of a small number of the highest audit authorities shall assess the organisation or performance of a sister institution on the basis of professional standards and professional experience.
Since all the highest audit bodies have similar tasks, peer review mechanisms can be a very valuable contribution to improving the functioning of the audit authorities.
In 2006, in preparation for the peer review procedure, the Court carried out a self-assessment which enabled the institution to examine its strengths and weaknesses.
In 2007, the Court adopted an action plan to remedy the shortcomings identified.
The programme included a total of 23 actions, of which six concerned task forces, involving members of the Court and the staff from different fields and levels of institution hierarchy: 31 1.Model, mission, strategic objectives and planning 2. Management structure, structure and organisation 3. Internal performance indicators 4. Workers and communication 5.Models, external communication strategy 6.Improving the quality of the reports The results of these task forces included new declarations on orders, reports and values, as well as strategic objectives for the Court, a new strategy and guidelines for internal communication and a report on how to improve the quality of reports.
THE QUANTITATIVE AND THE QUANTITATIVE IMPROVEMENT OF THE CONTROL COOPERATION Many of the strategic objectives adopted concern the products of the institutions. • •.... •.................. •................. •......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................"""..."...""..."...""..."..."..."..."..."..."""..."..."..."..."..."..."..."..."""..."..."..."..."..."..."..." "" "" "" "" "" "" "" """ """""""""""""""""..."..."..." "" """ "" """""""""""""" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
The Court seeks to increase the visibility of its audit results through the selection of relevant topics, the approximation of time and a clearer and clearer preparation of its reports.
It has also started to increase the number of performance checks and to increase the quality of controls.
In 2007, considerable efforts were made to further develop the methodological basis for the Court's work as a key prerequisite for a high quality audit work.
A new manual for accounting control and compliance control to be completed in 2008 has been developed with high workloads.
The new Economic Audit Manual of the Court was adopted at the end of 2006 and was first made available as guidelines for auditors in 2007.
In order to further improve the quality of the Court's work on the audit of the performance of tasks, additional guidance has been developed and several seminars and trainings have been carried out.
In addition, the Court has set new ambitious targets for the use of information technology.
In the new IT strategy adopted in 2007, the Court expressed its intention to increase its capacity to carry out IT control and to transform.
It is important that the quantity and quality of the Court's performance can be properly assessed.
The Court intends to develop performance indicators to enable it to provide various performance data in future annual activity reports.
In the future, the Court plans to develop a methodology for assessing the cost-effectiveness of the institution32.
33 The European Court of Auditors celebrated 30 years of the Court's existence as an external audit body of the European Union.
The events started with an increase in the Court's presence (seminars, information, etc.) in most of the European Union's capitals in the framework of the European Day of 2007.
On 17 October 2007 the exhibition was opened under the motto of the Voivodship Voivodship Voivodship of Voivodship. 30 years old, which included many thematic graphs, a picture with more than 150 photographs and video fragments, as well as many documents.
On this occasion, the Luxembourg Central Bank issued a silver commemorative coin.
On 18 October 2007, the European Court of Auditors organised a seminar entitled "The Future of Public Audit in the EU Chinese" in which a number of high-level experts from EU countries and the institution's executives participated.
IMPROVING THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE ASPECTS OF THE COURT A lot of the tasks set out in the Action Plan concern communication, which in 2007 was devoted to increased efforts.
Among other things, a new website was launched and information material was published on the annual report in a format which was easier to access and the Court agreed to a new procedure for the presentation of special reports to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament.
Further developments, usually directly or partly related to the Action Plan, related to the modernisation of the Court's accounting system and the new strategic documents on human resources and IT.
The Court has also launched the modernisation of its IT systems in the areas of control, translation, knowledge and communication, management and staff information.
In addition, the Court made progress in 2007 in preparing for the second extension of its main building, which is necessary in view of the recent and planned increase in the number of employees.
The Court will present an annual report on the European Development Funds, together with the annual report on the general budget of the EU, as well as the special annual reports on the European agencies and other bodies, in 2008, as in previous years.
Expenditure planning within the general budget of the European Union shall take place in seven-year cycles, i.e. within the financial framework.
2007 was the first year of the new financial framework focusing on the implementation of policies.
The Court uses this opportunity to look at earlier innovations, namely the Commission's shift to business-related budgeting, business-related management, and the distribution of the budget to 31 policy areas, with some 220 actions.
The 2007 Annual Report is divided into policy groups, which are largely but not fully linked to the new headings of the financial framework.
Box 5 contains a summary of selected control tasks which have been completed or completed, broken down by control group, and which will be published at the beginning of 2008 or at the beginning of 2009.
34 7 More detailed information on the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2008 work programme on our website (www.eca.europa.eu).
35 BOX 5 Conservation and management of natural resources Implementation of the milk quota system in the Member States which acceded to the EU on 1 May 2004. Managing the EU support measures for the storage of cereals in the public sector Procedures for the clearance of accounts under the common agricultural policy Structural policy, transport, research and energy management Procedures for the examination and evaluation of large investment projects for the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods of the EU Solidarity Fund for the development of the common agricultural policy in a fast, efficient and flexible manner?
The Intelligent Energy Europe Programme (2003-2006) The effectiveness of Structural Funds spending on waste water treatment for the 1994-99 and 2000-2006 programming periods of the Intelligent Energy for Europe Instrument (ISPA) 2000-2006 Are implementing agencies the right instrument for implementing the EU budget?
External actions European Commission assistance for reconstruction after the tsunami and hurricane Mitch The effectiveness of EU support for Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice Own resources, banking activities, expenditure on the administration, Community institutions and bodies, policy areas in the area of binding tariff information (CITA) How do EU agencies achieve results?Banking actions in the management of the Commission's financial resources in the Mediterranean The Court referred to a number of priority themes to be addressed in 2008 in order to select new audit tasks.
36 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION WITH THE EU'S INTERNATIONAL CONTROLS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TREATY The European Court of Auditors is to carry out an audit with the highest audit authorities of the Member States (ORKB) in connection with the Treaty of Amsterdam: Accommodation and national control authorities shall cooperate in a trusty and independent manner. The Nice Treaty obliges the Court of Auditors to set up a committee for contacts with the national control authorities in which all the Presidents and the Court meet each year in order to discuss matters of common interest.
Ongoing contacts shall be maintained by liaison officers designated by the CMRs concerned.
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2007, the delegation of the Court attended the annual meeting in Helsinki on 3 and 4 December, organised by the Finnish Court of Auditors.
The meeting focused on risk management, on acceptable risks and on an integrated internal control system for managing EU funds and focused on the role it plays in risk management in this area.
The Court will host the next meeting of the Contact Committee on 1 and 2 December 2008.
In 2007, two meetings of liaison officers were held to prepare a meeting of the Contact Committee.
The first meeting was held on 23 and 24 April in The Hague and the second in Luxembourg on 11 and 12 October, chaired by the European Court of Auditors.
The two meetings discussed recent developments in EU financial management and discussed the work of the Task Force Task Force on Cooperation in Cooperation in Cooperation in Cooperation in Cooperation in the field of Cooperation, on the contact committee itself and on its functioning and on improving its functioning and, in this respect, proposals on improving its functioning.
The meeting also addressed the activities of the various working groups and expert groups set up by the Contact Committee to discuss specific issues of common interest.
The Court has been involved in the meetings of the network of candidate and candidate countries in the field of education and training and training and in the field of education and training in the field of education and training and education and training and in the field of education, education and training, and in the field of education, training and training in the field of education, education and training.
The presidents of the ORKB of the candidate and candidate countries of the medium-term and the European Court of Auditors met in Skopje on 11 and 12 June 2007 (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia).
The principles of control are an important aspect of all efforts to improve practical cooperation in the control of EU funds.
In this context, in 2006, the Contact Committee decided to set up a working group chaired by one of the members of the Court, Josef Bonnici, in order to develop common control standards and comparable control standards, based on internationally recognised control principles, adapted to the EU context.
The first meetings of the European Court of Auditors were held in Luxembourg in 2007.
In December 2007, the Helsinki Contact Committee received a progress report from the Working Group and adopted a resolution on the subject.
OTHER INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court continued its active participation and participation in the improvement of international control rules through membership of European and international organisations of public financial control bodies, including Eurosai and Intosai.
Within Eurosai, the Court is represented in the Working Party on the Environment and the Working Party on Information Technology and participates in the Eurosai Education Committee.
The Court hosted a seminar on the analysis of the most common IT problems of the Luxembourg ORB of 17 and 18 April 2007, as well as a seminar on "Control of Economics" of 4-6 December 2007.
Since joining Intosai in 2004, he has joined the advisory sub-committee (FAS), the audit sub-committee (CAS) and the economic control sub-committee (PAS).
The Court participated in all meetings of the vehicle alarm system held in 2007 and actively contributed to the published and discussed guidelines.
As part of the FAS alarm system, he appointed a representative of the ERI (Mr Jesúsa Lázaro Cuenca) as one of the representatives of the alarm system for the draft Steering Committee for Technical Standards for Testing (ERI) for the New Delhi Technical Standards Committee (CESC) meeting in January 2007 in New Delhi.
In addition, the Translation Directorate of the Court made available resources for the linguistic review of the document in Spanish and German.
In addition, on the 19th Intosai Congress (Incosai) on 5-10 November 2007 in Mexico, in which two main issues were addressed: public debt, governance, responsibility and audit, and performance assessment systems based on commonly accepted key indicators.
In 2008, the Court will continue to participate actively in Eurosai and Intosai working groups, seminars and meetings.
37 Helsinki Contact Committee, December 2007.
38 STAFF POLICY The Court's most important capital is its staff.
They have a broad academic and professional context and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's work.
As part of the recent modernisation of staff policy, the Court focused on employment, training, career development and improving working conditions.
The participation of men and women in active service (officials and temporary and temporary and temporary staff, but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) was almost the same.
As shown in the chart below, since 2001, the number of women employed in the Court has increased as a result of the actions taken by the Court in order to achieve a gender balance.
The percentage of women and men among the Court's staff 46% 12/2001 54% of women 50% 12/2007 50%
The following table presents the analysis of men and women at the level of responsibility at 31 December 2007.
Like the other European institutions, the Court uses a policy of equal opportunities in the management of human resources and recruitment and recognises the need to promote a more active increase in the number of women at the higher levels of the Court's management.
13 of 56 directors and heads of departments and departments (23%) are women, representing an increase of 3% compared to 2006.
Most of them are employed in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative departments.
12/2006 12/2006 M 67 % F 20% 12/2006 12/2007 M 77% 12/2006 M 80% 12/2007 M 64 % F 23% 39 F 68 % M 32% M 32% W 68% F 68 % supervisory board M 23% secretaries (AST-niveau) F 33 % F 36 % JOBS OF MEN OF THE MIGGER LARGE LARGE LARGE (AST-NIVEAU) Secretaries (AST-Niveau) Audit (AD-Niveau) Directors and LARGE (AD-Niveau) Directors and Directors of the Department and Department/Director of the Department of Directors of the Directive Department The recruitment policy of the Court is in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, and staff is composed of officials and staff contracted for a fixed period.
In 2007, the Court had 179 staff: 117 officials, 35 temporary staff and 27 contract staff.
This large number reflects the progress made in 2007 in terms of job vacancies.
This recruitment depends on the availability of reserve lists from the EPSO competitions and on the availability of a sufficient number of candidates; this process is sometimes quite long, leading to an extremely high, temporary participation of job vacancies.
The Court is constantly seeking to shorten the time limits for the recruitment process.
PROFIL ALTERS LIABILITY OF CARERS The following chart shows that the Court is the body OF LIGHT, i.e. 63% of employees are younger than 44 years of age.
Of the 102 staff of the Court, who are 55 years of age or older, there are 27 of the 56 of the 55 directors and heads of the faculty/reference, which means that there are significant changes in the senior management over the next five to ten years.
40 38 68 94 114 81 147 149 YEARS 25-29 45-49 30-34 50-54 35-39 55-59 40-44 20-24 > 60 153 CONTROL TRAVELS During the Court's audit work the auditors must go to Member States and other beneficiary countries from EU funds to obtain the relevant audit evidence.
Visits are usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in the approval, management and payment of EU funds and by their final recipients.
The examination teams usually consist of two to three examiners, and the length of the examination trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of examination and the distance.
In 2007, travel costs related to test travel amounted to EUR 0,49 million (compared to EUR 0,43 million in 2006).
This represents a significant investment to ensure a sufficient level of control of all levels and the location of the management of EU funds.
The table below shows the number of audit trips carried out by the Court in 2007 in EU Member States and outside the EU.
Inspection visits to Member States in 2007 50 40 30 20 10 0 Inspection visits to candidate countries and other non-EU countries in 2007 4 3 2 1 0 41 Serbia and Montenegro Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Germany Portugal Italy Spain Belgium Greece Czech Republic France United Kingdom Denmark Netherlands Ireland Finland Austria Poland Lithuania Hungary Bulgaria Sweden Slovenia Slovakia Latvia Malta Russia Moldova Latvia Lesotho. Swaziland Guinea Tunisia Indonesia Bosnia and Herzegovina Albania Togo Sri Lanka Niger Nicaragua Morocco Madagascar Mali Kenya Ghana
In 2007, the Court's staff averaged 12 days of vocational training.
The percentage of specialised training increased significantly compared to 2006.
The main changes to training are the introduction of training courses for the Court's performance control manual and related guidelines, the Commission's accounting rules, the use of accrual accounting (ABAC), SAP financial systems and other IT applications and IT audits.
Language courses in 2007 accounted for 52% of the total number of training days.
The Court adopted a vocational training plan for 2008-2011, which provides for the development of vocational training in the coming years, focusing on the implementation of individual development plans for individual workers.
In addition, the Court examines the possibility of introducing a European Public Sector Auditor Diploma ector Diploma (POD).
Box 6 presents the staff in the selected unit or unit on the farm in order to provide the reader with an image of the work done, the employees involved in the work, and their context and work experience. 42
43 BOX 6 has decided to apply the report on fishing activities, accompanied by the results of the report on control, control and sanctions of fisheries resources, adopted by the Court in 2007 (Special Report No 7/2007), which has aroused great interest among policy makers and the media.
The articles in many newspapers and the rapid reactions of both the Commission and the Council have shown the importance and relevance of the report.
The starting point for this success was a team consisting of a dozen auditors of the Court, who worked closely with the rapporteur member, Mr Kikis Kazamas and his office.
Emmanuel Lauch, a French auditor who has been working on the farm for several years, and his Spanish colleague, Mr Alejandro Ballester, were the team leaders during the preparatory phase in autumn 2005.
The audit included travel in six Member States, between Denmark and Italy, both to central managing authorities to gain insight into control systems and to major ports, in order to assess the functioning of the systems in practice.
To the extent that the language skills of the members of the team were insufficient, the translators of the language service of the Court provided assistance.
The audit team is very proud to have contributed to the fact that political decision-makers are gradually seeing the serious consequences of the implementation of the Community fisheries policy.
Other audit authorities have shown interest in the study as it provides suggestions and know-how, for example, on the forthcoming analysis of a similar issue in the Baltic States.
From left to right, from bottom to top 1 series Alejandro BALLESTER GALLARDO, Financial Audit Board (ES left to right from 5 years); Kikis KAZAMIS, Member of the Court for 3 years (CY 3 years in the yard); Riemer HAAGSMA, Head of the Department (NL 30 years in the yard); Emmanuel RAUCH, Chief Financial Audit Board (FR 14 years in the yard).
Jean-Marc DANIEL, Attaché Cabinet (FR binchel for 5 years outside); François OSETE, Head of Cabinet (FR/ES. OSETE for 23 years outside); Robert MARKUS, DARKUS (NL ch.oe for 13 years outside); Bertrand TANGUY, Financial Audit Board (FR ch.oe for 3 years outside); Pietro PURICELLA, Financial Audit Board (IT.o. for 11 years outside).
The 3rd series of Anne POULSEN, a translator (DA Tonnage for 16 years at court); Maria del Carmen JIMENEZ, Chief Auditor (ES for 15 years at court); Cécile Ramirez, assistant secretary (FR); Neophytos NEOPHYTOU, attaché cabinet (CY for 3 years at court); Krzysztof ZALEGA, Financial Audit Board (PL. 4 years at court).
More members of the team (not in the picture) Valéria ROTA, Councillor for Financial Audit (IT... for 8 years on the farm); Adeline DOMINGUES, Assistant Secretariat (FR... for 8 years on the farm); Juha VANHATALO, Counselor for Financial Audit (FI) for 3 years on the farm; Paul STAFFORD, Head of Unit (UK. for 18 years at the Court).
44 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE BUDGET The Court's budget accounts for approximately 0,1% of the EU's general budget or 1.8% of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies.
In the last three years, a 17% increase has been observed.
This increase is mainly linked to the consequences of the enlargement of the EU in 2004 and 2007.
Another substantial increase in the Court's budget for building activities (the building funds have almost doubled in the period 2006-2008), as the future new people that will be hired will be transferred to the second vacancy that is scheduled to be completed for 2013.
In 2007, approximately 72% of the total budget comes from human resources.
Budget 2006 2007 2008 Final appropriations (1000 EUR) Members of institutions 11 350 11 270 12 061 Officials and temporary staff 77 907 82 583 88 712 Other staff and external services 4 out of 7 out of 7 out of 7 out of 11 out of 11 out of 7 out of 7 out of 10 10 10 out of 10 5 out of 10 5 out of 10 10 out of 10 10 7 7 out of 10 10 7 out 10 10 7 out of 10 10 10 10 10 4 out of 10 10 10 4 out of 10 10 10 4 out 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 12 4 out 10 10 out of 10 10 10 10 10 10 5 out 10 7 out of 10 5 7 out of 10 5 5 5 5 5 5 10 10 out 10 10 out of 10 10 10 10 out of 10 10 7 out of 5 10 10 10 out of 10 10 7 out of 10 10 5 7 out 10 out of 5 10 out of 10 10 7 out of 10 10 10 10 out 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 4 5 out 10 4 5 out 10 7 out 10 5 out 10 out 10 out 10 10 7 out 10 7 out 5 7 out 10 out 10 out 10 5 5 5 4 5 out 10 10 out 5 5 out 5 5 5 out 5 out 5 10 10 out 5 5 out 10 10 5 out 5 out 5 7 out 5 5 10 10 out 10 out 10 7 out 5 10 7 out 5 10 5 10 10 5 5 4 10 5 7 out 10 10 10 5 10 10 5 5 5 5 5 7 out 5 10 10 5 5 5 10 10 10 10 10 7 out 10 10 5 10 5 5 10 5 5 5 5 10 7 out 5 7 5 5 10 5 10 5 5 5 7 5 5 10 10 5 10 10 10 5 5 10 7 out 10 10 10 10 10 5 5 7 out 5 5 5 10 10 5 10 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 10 10 10 5 5 5 5 5 10 10 10 7 out 5 5 5 5 5 10 10 10 10 10 5 10 5 10 5 5 10 10 7 out 10 10 5 5 10 7 out 10 10 10 7 5 5 10 5 5 10 10 10 5 5 10 10 5 10 5 10 10 10 10 5 10 7 out 10 10 10 7 out 5 10 10 5 10 10 5 5 10 7 out 10 5 5 10 5 5 5 5 5 5 10 7 10 10 10 10 7 5 5 10 10 10 7 5 7 out 5 10 10 5 5 5
The INTERNAL Service of the Court's Internal Audit Service aims to assist the Court in the achievement of its objectives through a systematic and methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
Furthermore, the Internal Audit Department proposes to increase the efficiency of the Court.
Overall, the aim is to assess the performance of the different services in the implementation of strategies, programmes and actions to continuously improve.
In 2007, the Court's Internal Audit Division focused on the audit of accounts (including the support of the Court's external auditor's work), ex ante audit, the implementation of internal audit standards, the Court's most recent support (Building K2) and the Court's recruitment procedures.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and an external expert, shall monitor and ensure the independence of the internal auditor.
The Committee shall also examine and approve the work programme and internal auditor reports and shall entrust them with certain audit tasks if necessary.
The Committee met eight times in 2007.
EXTERNAL COURT AUDIT In the opinion of the Court's audit of the Court's external auditor for the financial year 2006, submitted on 28 September 2007, it was concluded that we believe that the Court of Auditors' financial statements provide a true and fair view of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2006, as well as of the financial year concluded on that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and its implementing rules, the generally adopted accounting rules and the internal rules of the European Court of Auditors.
OJ C 292, 5.12.2007.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2007 Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities 2008 anderslautende 45 S. European Court of Auditors 21 x 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8
Address of our worldwide network of sales points: (352) 29 29 42758. http://eca.europa.eu/portal/page/portal/eca_main_pages/splash_page
EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF ACCOUNTS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES LUXEMBOURG (SCH... 978-92-9207-003-8 QJ-AA-08-001-DE-C)
ISSN 1684-0666 PL Annual Activity Report 2008 European Court of Auditors
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2008
2 Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Here is a free phone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Some mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or they charge you a fee.
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2009 ISBN 978-929207-202-5 © European Communities, 2009 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium Printed on WHITE CHLORINE-free PAPER
The presentation of the President of the Court of Auditors, as an independent audit body of the EU, makes an exceptional contribution to improving the EU's financial management and promoting transparency and accountability by providing audit services and as an example.
2008 was characterised by significant progress and important changes in the EU financial management referred to in this Annual Activity Report.
One extraordinary event was the expert assessment of the European Court of Auditors carried out by an international expert team which led to a positive conclusion on the adequacy of the Court's audit management framework and the independence and objectivity of the Court's work.
In its annual report for the financial year 2007, published in November 2008, the Court issued for the first time an opinion on the reliability of the EU accounts.
However, as in previous years, there have been too high levels of errors as regards legality and regularity in areas of the EU budget, which represent the largest part of the expenditure.
In 2008, the Court also recognised developments at EU and national level which should lead to a significant improvement in the EU's financial management in the future.
The two examples presented in this annual activity report relate to the ongoing review process of the EU budget to which the Court has made an active contribution and to the Commission Communication on an acceptable risk of error.
In the field of international relations, the Court has taken the lead in organising the meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the European Union's Supreme Audit Authorities on the reform of the European Union's budget and the renewed Lisbon Strategy, as well as the hosts of the recent EU-ORKB workshop on the role of the EU-ORKB in response to the current financial crisis.
Given that the control environment is changing rapidly, the Court considers that internal reforms are necessary to better fulfil its obligations under the Treaty and to fulfil its tasks effectively.
In 2008, the Court took significant steps to implement its mandate and to develop an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012.
The audit strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of controls and improving efficiency through the best use of resources.
These objectives will have a decisive impact on the Court's work programmes during this period and on its efforts to continuously improve and exploit the main challenges and opportunities of exploiting the potential of improvement identified in the framework of the peer review.
With their competences and involvement, the Court's staff have a key role to play in carrying out the audit work, which the Court does as an independent guardian of the citizens' financial interests in order to improve financial management.
On behalf of the Court and on my own behalf, I would like to thank all the workers for their commitment and professional work last year.
Special thanks for our personal commitment and commitment are due to our former Secretary-General, Michel Hervé, who was withdrawn at the end of 2008.
I wish you a pleasant reading of this annual activity report, which will provide an insight into the Court and an overview of the activities carried out in 2008.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible, in accordance with the Treaty, for the control of the EU's finances.
Letbild The independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is characterised by fairness and impartiality, which is recognised as a professional, quality and impact of its work, and which provides its addressees with valuable support for improving the EU's financial management.
The independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff.
Professionalism Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Added value Creating adequate and timely high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of the recipients and containing relevant and targeted comments.
Excellence and effectiveness Recognition of individual values, promoting the development of specific skills and rewarding results.
THE COURT'S ROLE AND WORK THE COURT'S WORK IS THE EU BUDGET The European Union's budget is around EUR 120 billion, which represents around 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of the 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in the financing of public activities, which is approximately the equivalent of the GNI of some Member States.
The revenue of the European Union consists mainly of contributions from Member States from their gross national income (GNI allocated, 65,4 %) or from VAT collected by Member States (VAT 16,9 %).
Customs duties and agricultural duties (so-called traditional own resources. 16,5 %) also represent a significant part of revenue.
Over time, budget composition has changed and agricultural and cohesion policy are the main areas of expenditure (see Box 1).
BOX 1 IN THANKS TO THANKS TO HIS HIS ARMS? THANKS TO HIS ARMS?
The EU budget is financed by Member States' financial contributions (mainly based on GNI) and by agricultural duties and duties.
The EU budget largely serves objectives other than the national budget, partly due to different responsibilities.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually represent a significant part of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which generally takes the form of payments to farmers across the Union, has been the main part of the budget expenditure, although it is now declining.
In 2009, 45.3% of the budget for the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly for agriculture and rural development, was allocated.
Since the 1980s, a large proportion of cohesion policy expenditure, i.e. regional and social development, has been allocated to co-financing various projects.
For 2009, expenditure on sustainable growth is planned at 39.6% of the budget, most of which is cohesion policy.
This budget area also covers most of the EU's research budget.
In addition, EU funds are heavily allocated to development and humanitarian aid, as well as to countries close to the Union or candidate countries.
6.7% of the budget is allocated to the management of the Community institutions.
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice The European Union, as a global partner The management of agriculture and management of natural resources 45.3% 1.2% 7.2 % 6,7% EU expenditure Cohesion for sustainable growth Source: European Union's general budget for the financial year 2009 (OJ L 69, 13.3.2009) 39.6%
The budget shall be decided annually by the Council, i.e. the representatives of the Member States, and by the European Parliament, directly on a proposal from the European Commission on the basis of a seven-year financial framework.
The Commission shall draw up and be responsible for the implementation of the budget.
Most of the budget cannot be used to cover agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure, notably agricultural and cohesion expenditure, in particular in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on the applications of the beneficiaries themselves, both farmers and project managers throughout the Union 8.
Democratic society needs complete and correct information available to the public, which is the basis for discussion and decision-making, both to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
The EU, like its Member States, has an external audit body, which acts as an independent guardian of citizens' financial interests.
The European Court of Auditors, acting as an EU external auditor, shall ensure that EU funds have been correctly booked and spent in accordance with the rules, with due regard for the optimal use of funds, regardless of where they are used.
The Court's audit work is being used by Parliament, the Council and the Commission, as well as by the Member States, to improve the EU's financial management.
The Court's work is an important basis for the annual discharge procedure during which Parliament takes a decision, on the basis of Council recommendations, whether the Commission has fulfilled its responsibility for the implementation of the budget during the previous year.
The Court has no judicial powers, even though it has no powers.
In the budgetary areas where shared management is carried out, Member States shall cooperate with the Commission in establishing supervisory and control systems, i.e. internal control and internal control, in order to ensure the correct and correct use of the funds.
In this way, internal control has a European and national dimension.
In addition to the Court's activities, many national control authorities control EU funds, provided that they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
9 OVERVIEW OF THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU BUDGET EU level of internal control Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) European Court of Auditors Member States Implementing bodies National control bodies National level
HOW IS THE COURT OF REPORTING THE RESULTS OF THE REPORT?
The Court shall publish the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: annual reports on the results of the audit of accounting in the form of a statement of assurance in relation to the implementation of the general budget2 and the activities carried out under the European Development Fund3.
Special annual reports on the results of the audit of the accounts of the agencies and bodies of the Communities.
Special reports above containing the results of the performance and compliance checks.
10 1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 In accordance with the Treaty, the Court is required to issue such a statement or opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In this context, underlying transactions are usually payments to final beneficiaries from the EU budget.
The annual statement of assurance is commonly known under the French acronym DAS (Déclaration d Continental Assurance continue).The annual statement of assurance is generally known under the name "French acronym."
Unlike practices in the Member States, the Court makes such a statement on the EU budget as a whole.
3 The European Development Fund (EDF) is based both on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries
The Court shall audit the EU's annual accounts in accordance with the international audit rules (ISA), which apply both in the public and private sectors.
However, the existing international control rules do not fully cover the conformity control carried out by the Court.
The Court, together with the national audit bodies, is actively involved in the development of international audit standards, which promote standardisation bodies (INTOSAI, IFAC) 4.
In order to ensure compliance of payments with the rules and legal framework, the Court is based on the results of the analysis of supervisory and control systems to prevent errors in the legality and regularity of payments, to detect and correct errors in legality and regularity and in payments and on the sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Where systems are reviewed and are considered reliable, the number of operations which the Court needs to examine to obtain reliable conclusions on their legality and regularity.
Other sources, such as the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions.
The Court uses a number of control methods to assess management and control systems and assess results on the basis of the criteria of legislation to ensure compliance with the principles of sound financial management.
With regard to the selection of topics for performance control, the Court seeks to identify the control areas for which they are expected to have the greatest impact in the form of the demonstrated potential for improvement in the savings, efficiency and effectiveness of EU expenditure. 11 is closed, as well as the Council Decision on the association of overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP States, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see external relations, development and enlargement matters) and partly through delegations in beneficiary countries.
Investment instruments under the EDF shall be managed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and shall not be audited by the Court.
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Institutions and Audit Institutions) International Federation of Accountants (International Federation of Accountants).
BOX 2 The Court does not have the resources necessary to examine in detail all operations financed from the EU budget.
Therefore, in relation to the creation of DAS, in order to obtain a population representative result, it uses statistical sampling methods.
The sample shall be carried out by random selection of a representative sample of transactions underlying transactions underlying settlements carried out in all areas of the Union budget, such as agriculture, in order to carry out a detailed assessment.
The Court monitors these operations up to the final recipient of the aid, such as the farmer in France.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks before carrying out on-the-spot checks e.g. measurement of the size of agricultural land shall be carried out in order to determine whether the relevant data contained in the aid application complies with the actual circumstances.
As a statistical sample, the results can be statistically calculated for a given population, i.e. for a specific area of revenue or expenditure, and can be used as the basis for the general assessment as a basis for the general assessment, together with the information resulting from the systemic assessment.
In order to determine how the audit opinion must be issued, the Court, in practice, compares the results of statistical checks on sampling with a certain ceiling, which it considers to be justified in relation to the so-called materiality threshold.
Accidental selection of a representative sample Payment to the agricultural holding in France Population of agricultural payments
The Court of Auditors shall act as a collegial body of 27 members, each of which has one member from each Member State.
All audit reports and opinions shall be adopted by the College.
The Court shall consist of five audit groups to which individual members shall be assigned.
As is apparent from the organisational chart (see page 17), there are four thematic control groups, covering different budgetary areas (care and management of natural resources and structural measures, transport, research and energy,...,...,... external measures and... financial measures, banking measures, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies).
The Fifth Audit Group (CEAD or coordination, communication, evaluation, quality assurance and development) is responsible for horizontal issues such as coordination in the field of assurance, quality assurance, development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports.
In addition, the Management Committee shall be responsible for preparing all administrative matters requiring a formal decision of the Court.
MEMBERS of the Court shall be appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament for a six-year term, as proposed by each Member State; the term of office shall be renewable.
Members shall carry out their activities in a fully independent manner for the general good of the European Union.
In addition to its role in the college, which is responsible for taking the final decision on audits and opinions, as well as on further strategic and administrative issues, each member shall be responsible for its specific tasks, in particular in the field of audits.
The competent examination work is usually the task of examiners in each examination department and is coordinated by the competent member with the support of his office.
The member shall then adopt the report in the audit group or in the Court and after its adoption in the European Parliament, the Council and the other interested parties.
On 1 January 2008, three new members... Mr Michel Cretin (France), Mr Harald Noack (Germany) and Mr Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) (Luxembourg) replaced their predecessors after their term of office.
The Council extended the mandate of four members: Hubert Weber (Austria), Maarten B. England (the Netherlands), David Bostock (the United Kingdom) and Ioannis Sarmas (Greece) (Greece) for six years.
The President-in-Office of the European Court of Auditors shall be the President of the European Court of Auditors, who shall be elected from among the members of the European Court of Auditors for three years and may be re-elected.
The President shall represent the Court in all its external relations, in particular in relations with the discharge authority, with the other institutions of the European Union and with the highest control bodies of the Member States and of the beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, a member of the Portuguese Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira was elected President of the Court. 14
The Secretary-General of the Secretary-General shall be the highest-ranking member of the institution and shall be appointed by the Court for a period of six years and shall be renewable.
The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the management of the Court's staff and staff, including vocational training and the Directorate-General for Translation, including, in any case, one unit per official language (22), with the exception of the Irish language.
The Secretary-General shall also be responsible for the secretariat of the Court.
The former Secretary-General, Michel Hervé, left the Court on 31 October 2008.
On 9 October 2008, John Speed was appointed Secretary General of the G.b.
On 10 March 2009, the Court appointed Eduardo Ruiz García as new Secretary-General with effect from 16 March 2009, the Court's STAFF Budget for the financial year 2008 provides for 858 posts of the European Court of Auditors (as at 31 December 2008).
The Court's auditors shall have broad training profiles and appropriate professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in the field of accounting, financial management, internal and external audit, as well as in the field of law and economics.
Like other EU institutions, the Court employs citizens from all Member States and employees are subject to the EU Staff Regulations.
KIKA KIKA KIKI KIKI KIKKAS KIKKASKASKASKAS KIKKASKAS KIKI KIKIKASKASKAS KIKKASKAS KIKASKAS KIKASKASKASKASKAS KIKASKASKASKAS KIKASKASKASKAS KIKASKASKASKA (ISK) KIKASKA (SKI) KIKASKA (SKISK) KI KIKASKASKASKASKASKAS (SK) KI (ISK) KIKA (SKI) (SKI) (SK) KIKASKA (RO) MÁEOGHAN-QUINN (IE) VojK Anton Anton Anton Antonańska (SK-SK) (I) (SK) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) MÁIR-QUINN (SK-SKI) (SK-SKI) (SK (SKI) (SK) (SK-SK-SK) (SK (SKI) (S) (SK) KI) (SKA) (SKA) KIKA) (SKASKIE) KIKA (SKA) (SKASKA (SKA) KIKA) (SKA) (SKI (SKI) KIKA) KISKA) (SK (SKA (SKA) (SKA) KI) KI-SKA) (SKA) KI (SKASKA) (SKA) (SKA) (SKA) (SKA) (SKA) (SKA) (SKA (SKA) (SKASKA) KI) (SKA KI (SKASKASKA (SKA) KA) (SKASKASKASKASKA (SKA) (SKA) (SKA (SKA) (SKI-SKA) KIKASKASKA (SKA) (SKA) KI (SKA) (SKASKA) (SKA (SK (SKISKI (SKI (SKA) (SKA) KI (SKA)
SUMMARY OF THE AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINION5 OF THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2007 OF THE ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET FOR ANNUAL OPERATIONS AND THE PROTECTION OF THE EU BUDGET
The limits on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2006 reported in last year's annual report for the financial year 2006 have ceased to apply due to the improvements made in the meantime in 2007.
In certain areas, such as the Union's administrative expenditure, the Court issues unlimited opinions on legality and regularity.
However, the Court cannot deliver an unqualified opinion on most expenditure areas.
Although most of the payments verified by the Court have been made in accordance with legal provisions, the Court still considers that the level of error in payments to final beneficiaries, such as farmers and entities that finance projects financed by EU funds, is too high.
With the exception of cohesion policy measures with an error rate of at least 11%, the error rate estimated by the Court in these policy groups varies from 2 to 5 %.
In some areas of expenditure, in particular in areas where they were covered by internal or external policy, the estimated error rate fell but would not change in such a way as to change the overall picture.
This does not mean that infringements are the result of fraud or that most of the activities in these areas are illegal or illegal.
SITUATION IN CERTAIN AREAS In three areas: administrative and other, economic and financial expenditure, as well as revenue, the audit of a representative sample of transactions carried out by the Court showed a low estimated error rate.
In the largest area of European Union expenditure In the area of agriculture and natural resources, the overall error rate in the projections remains significant.
The disproportionately high proportion of these error rates is due to rural development and to their often complex systems.
In the case of the expenditure of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the error rate estimated by the Court is slightly below the materiality threshold of 2%.
As in previous years, cohesion actions, which account for more than a third of the budget, constitute the area which is most likely to be affected by errors.
Due to the Court's random assessment of the proportion of transactions in which errors occurred, at least 11% of the total amount of the refund could not be paid.
5 This section aims to include it in the Court's reports and opinions and not to summarise them.
For more information, see the full text of the Court's documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
19. IMPROVING MONITORING AND CONTROL The high level of error in areas such as cohesion is partly due to inherent risks arising from a large number of beneficiaries applying for EU funds under complex rules and regulations.
The shortcomings identified also contribute to the design and functioning of the systems.
Most EU funded programmes contain provisions on corrective actions which, on a multi-annual basis, provide for the recovery of funds unduly paid for errors.
However, there is no information on the impact of these measures.
This means that it cannot be concluded that it effectively reduces the proportion of illegal and/or irregular expenditure.
Since 2000, the Commission has been working on a reform programme to improve the management of the EU budget, including the 2006 Action Plan.
By the end of 2007, the Commission implemented two thirds of the sub-measures contained in the Action Plan.
However, it is still too early to assess the impact of these measures.
Improved high-level controls, including controls carried out by the Commission in the Member States, do not compensate for insufficient controls carried out at the lower level, such as on-the-spot checks.
However, the benefits of increased on-the-spot checks should be considered in relation to costs.
The Court recommends that the Union's political bodies determine the appropriate level of risk of error.
In order to reduce the level of error in EU payments, the Court recommends simplifying rules and rules, improving internal control and improving monitoring and reporting.
20 BOX 3....... 3 IN-- IN THE TABLE OF THE TABLE IN THE TABLE T. W. OF THE TABLE OF CONDITIONS IN THE TABLE IN THE TABLE OF CONDITIONS IN THE TABLE OF CONDITIONS IN THE WORKING TABLE IN THE TABLE OF CONDITIONS IN THE TABLE OF CONDITIONS IN THE TABLE OF CONDITIONS IN THE.................................................................... IN THE T. W................... IN T.. W. T... IN T. IN T.. IN T. IN T. T. T. W...... T. T. IN T. IN T W.... T. IN T. W. T. T. W..... T. T. T. IN T. IN T. T. T T T. T T. IN THE W. IN T. IN T. IN T. T. T. IN T. IN T. T. T. T. T. IN T. IN T. IN T IN T. IN T. IN T. IN T T. IN T T. IN T. W. IN T. T.. IN T. IN T. IN T T T T. IN T T. IN T. IN T T T T. IN T. IN IN T. IN T. IN T. IN T. IN T. IN T. T. T. T. IN T. IN T. IN T. IN T. T. IN T. IN T. IN T. IN T. IN T. IN T. IN. IN T. IN T T. IN T. IN T. T. IN T T T.. IN T T T T. IN T IN T T. IN T. IN T T. T IN T. IN T.. IN T. T. IN T T. T. T. IN T. T. IN T T. T T T. IN T T. IN T T. IN T T IN T. IN T T.. IN THE T. IN T T T T W T. IN T OF T T T
Detailed evaluation of systems in the 2007 annual report. Cohesion: EUR 42 billion Agriculture and natural resources: EUR 51 billion External assistance, development and enlargement: EUR 6 billion Research, energy and transport: EUR 4.5 billion Education and citizenship: EUR 1.5 billion Administrative and other expenditure: EUR 8 MilliaSrdAePnaERuDro Economy and finance: EUR 0.5 billion Revenue Assessment of supervisory and control systems The extent to which the level of error (FQ) is partially satisfactory ee where certain control mechanisms have proven to be effective, other is not.
The European Development Fund (EDF) financial statements provide a true and reliable picture of the financial situation and the performance of the EDF in all relevant respects.
The opinion on the legality and regularity of EDF transactions is limited in respect of payments.
In addition, a further 28 special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies were adopted in 2008.
21 BOX 4 BOX 21 BOX 4 AMMONK, RIGHT, INTERPRETATION OF THE EVIDENCE OF THE EVIDENCE OF THE RANGE OF EVENTS, RIGHT, EVENTS OF THE RANGE, EPRENT may deliver the following opinions: • without reservation, if the reliability of the accounts or the underlying transactions is proven, i.e. payments are lawful and correct in all material respects; • negative opinions if the level of error in the underlying transactions is material, extensive or unreliable; • refusal of the opinion where the opinions cannot be issued without reservations, but the consequences of the reservations or limitations of the scope of the study are not so significant or exhaustive that they require negative opinion from the study or negative opinion of the study. • Limited opinion from the study if the opinion cannot be issued without reservation but are not so significant and exhaustive that they require negative opinion from the study.
The Court published, in 2008, a total of twelve special reports.
In order to improve the readability and readability of the reports, the Court decided to publish its special reports in a new format and to make them available directly on its website (www.eca.europa.eu), and in the Official Journal only reference is made to their publication.
As in previous years, the reports concerned investigations into financial management in many areas and covered, from the effectiveness of the European Solidarity Fund (N° 3/2008) to the European Union's aid for the storage of cereals in public storage (N° 11/2008).
The Court's audits have revealed different types of problems with different effects and have led to recommendations aimed at improving financial management and improving efficiency and efficiency.
The thematic choice for and design of economic efficiency checks is the responsibility of the Court and is based on criteria such as risk analysis, potential for improvement and public interest.
In its special reports In 2008, the Court answered the following questions: conservation and management of natural resources • Did the procedure for determining national milk quotas in the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 lead to the introduction of management and control systems for time that proved to be a solid basis for the application of the EU system?
(No 3/2008) • Has the Commission planned, monitored and assessed the Intelligent Energy for Europe programme (to promote energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the diversification of energy supply) and has the implementing agency entrusted with implementing the programme had a positive impact on programme management? (No 7/2008) • Has the ISPA programme (the preparation for accession instrument, one of the support instruments for the accession countries to Central and Eastern Europe in preparation for accession in 2000-2006) been properly prepared and prepared? Has the ISPA projects been implemented on schedule and supported projects to ensure compliance with the EU environmental directives of countries benefiting from assistance and improvement of the trans-European transport network?
• Has the Commission adequately identified the rehabilitation needs of those affected by the tsunami and hurricane Mitch and has the aid been implemented in the right time and effectively? (No 6/2008) • Has EU support for new EU neighbouring countries (Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine) improved administrative capacity for border control, migration and asylum management, the fight against organised crime and the rule of justice and good governance (Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine) in 2004 and 2007?
What were the reasons for insufficient results and to what extent the Commission pursued the learning process for the use of knowledge for further support in this field? (No 9/2008) • Has EC development assistance for health care in sub-Saharan Africa (under EC commitments to reduce poverty and achieve the Millennium Development Goals) been effective?
Did the financial and human resources allocated to the health sector correspond to the EC's political commitments, and has the Commission managed to implement this assistance more quickly and effectively, and has the Commission implemented the various instruments to support the health sector?
(No 10/2008) Revenue, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies • Has the binding tariff information system to promote the uniform application of customs policy and to ensure the correct collection of customs duties been effectively applied (appropriate and compliant) (No 2/2008) • Have EU regulatory agencies (regulatory authorities) committed themselves to implementing the EU's main administrative and financial reforms to move to performance-oriented management?
Have the agencies properly planned their activities, set up reliable tools to monitor their activities, properly informed their activities, and reliable assessments of their performance? (No 5/2008) 24
25 SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLICED IN 20086 No 1/2008 No 2/2008 No 3/2008 No 5/2008 No 6/2008 No 8/2008 No 9/2008 No 10/2008 No 11/2008 No 12/2008 Procedure for the control and evaluation of large investment projects in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming period (OJ C 81, 1.4.2008) Binding tariff information (OJ C 103, 25.4.2008) European Union Solidarity Fund: How quickly, effectively and flexibly works?
(OJ C 185, 22.7.2008) How are the Union agencies achieving results? European Commission aid for rehabilitation after the tsunami and hurricane Mitch Intelligent Energy Programme in Europe (2003-2006) Is cross compliance effective?
Effectiveness of EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice in the field of EC development assistance to health care in subSaharan Africa Manage EU action in the field of aid for the storage of cereals in public storage Structural Assistance Facility for the preparation of accession (ISPA), 2000-2006 6 Special reports are available on the Court's website or via the electronic procurement document in EU Bookshop.
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2008 The Court also contributes to improving the EU's financial management by issuing opinions on proposals or issues related to financial management.
These opinions are required as part of the procedure for the adoption of financial rules7 or may be issued at the request of one of the other Community institutions8.
Moreover, the Court may present own-initiative opinions.
The Court's opinions may concern certain areas of EU expenditure, such as the revision of the Financial Regulation of the European Aviation Safety Agency (No 1/2008) or issues relating to EU revenue, such as the revision of the Regulation on the system of the Communities' own resources (No 2/2008).
Opinions shall be based on the Court's expertise over the years in audits on EU financial management and in some cases on certain audits or opinions.
For example, in its opinion on the new Financial Regulation of the European Joint Undertaking for Reactor Reactor Reactor, the Court referred to its annual report for the financial year 2006, in which it already drew attention to the high risks associated with the legality and regularity of the research aid payments.
26 7 Article 279 of the EC Treaty.
8 Article 248 (4) of the EC Treaty.
Council Decision 2000/597/EC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources (OJ L 2000/597, Euratom)
ADOPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION The public control policy plays a key role in promoting accountability and contributes to public debate.
Audit activities shall be transmitted to addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, in order to determine whether taxpayers' money is spent properly and properly.
The Court's audits serve the decision-makers in the institutions concerned in the institutions concerned in the European context, in particular the Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States, as a direct source of information.
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the conclusions of the checks.
Although the Court's audit activity mainly affects the published reports, the audit itself had a certain effect.
In its replies, the evaluation body often reveals the problems identified by the Court and presents the steps it intends to take to resolve them.
Following the audit work and the publication of the report, the results of the audit will be analysed and used by Parliament and the Council to carry out their policy tasks in monitoring the use of budgetary resources.
In the framework of the Court's annual discharge procedure, the Court's reports form the basis for the Council's recommendation and Parliament's decision.
29 Examples are included in the discharge procedure for the implementation of the 2007 budget, in which the European Parliament calls on the Commission and the Member States to make efforts to simplify and further clarify the rules in order to reduce the risk of errors, to improve controls and to reduce costs.
This applies both to shared management areas and to expenditure on agriculture and cohesion policy, and to direct management areas and expenditure on research, culture and education.
Special reports will also be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, given that they are published during the year, during Parliament and the Council meetings, the presentation of the special reports and the debate in this regard were usually held at an earlier stage.
The impact of audit reports can be increased by maximizing them in the relevant media, paying more attention and encouraging public debate.
The press reports on the Court's annual report are usually quite extensive, but the press has also followed some special reports with interest.
An example of this is the special report on cross compliance (No 8/2008) which was published at the time of the adoption of the Health Check of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Due to the importance of cross compliance and its key role within the CAP and the moment of publication, in several of the media, the report on this publication has taken on the importance of television, newspapers, specialised newspapers, Internet publications (press, agricultural organisations, MIP websites, Internet blogs, etc.).
The report has also been widely discussed in the European Parliament and almost all the recommendations of the Court have been taken into account in the draft report on discharge.
Detailed information on the follow-up to the Court's earlier observations is provided in the relevant chapters of the Court's annual report.
The Court's most frequently stated statement in the most recent annual report is the statement that, despite the actions taken in the previous year, the shortcomings identified in the previous year have only been partially remedied.
The Court intends to examine increasingly the long-term impact of its work, as well as of its work, including its opinion, as well as its opinion.
For example, the Court uses the Commission's database, which takes into account the follow-up to the Commission's audit recommendations, as a basis for assessing the impact of the audit.
In the light of this assessment, separate detailed studies may be carried out leading to further findings and recommendations.
They may be taken into account in the special report on the field concerned or in the report on the follow-up and impact of the recommendations on financial management.
THE COURT'S OPINION ON THE RISK-TARIFF-CONCEPT In the context of the development of the Community internal control framework, the Court held in its Opinion No 2/2004 that the responsibility to decide the level of risk which they are willing to accept lies with the political bodies at the time of the approval of the Union's expenditure systems.
The Court proposed that Parliament and the Council agree on an appropriate cost-benefit ratio, in other words an acceptable residual risk of error in expenditure.
The costs of controls should be proportionate to the monetary and political benefits they bring.
Since the publication of this opinion, both the European Parliament and the Council have expressed their desire in their resolutions on discharge to continue their work on the common understanding of the acceptable level of risk.
At the end of 2008, the Commission issued a Communication entitled "Towards a common understanding of the concept of tolerated risk of error........ " (Towards a common understanding of the concept of acceptable risk of error).
The Court welcomed this Communication and forwarded a response to the Commission with some restrictions and a clarification of the key issues to be taken into account to be taken into account in the future follow-up.
In the Communication, the Commission notes that any decision on the acceptable risk of error should be based, inter alia, on the possibility of further simplification.
The Court also stresses the importance and importance of further simplifications and the potential consequences of reducing errors and irregularities.
The concept of acceptable risk of error not fully separated from the concept of materiality threshold, defined and applied by the Court, falls within the competence of the external auditor10.
The Court considers that an analysis of the costs and benefits of expenditure programmes could provide information not only for the purpose of discussing the acceptable risks but also for the review of the regulatory framework and the administrative structure of the programmes.
In this context, it cannot be an important question whether an acceptable risk of an error exists, but whether the risk of an error is high enough to remove/regulate or radically change the system or programme concerned.
In the design of expenditure and revenue schemes or programmes, particular attention should be paid to the concept of acceptable risks.
It would be good if expenditure programmes were sufficiently detailed at the time of their adoption to be sufficiently detailed about the risks involved and about the costs of the planned controls to reduce these risks to an acceptable level.
In this way, decisions would be taken in a conscious manner and with a clear consideration of the risks and costs involved.
The budgetary reform process may provide an opportunity to reflect on how the Court's response to the Commission's Communication entitled "Budgetary money" urged reform in Europe to change11.
31 10 The concept of "knowledge" is defined in the International Rule of Control of ISA 320 as follows: "Information" is necessary where their omission or misconception may affect the economic decisions of the persons who have taken decisions on their basis on the basis of the financial statements.
The importance depends on the size of the position or error resulting from the particular circumstances of omission or misrepresentation.
This means that importance is rather a threshold or a limit rather than a basic quality requirement that must contain information to be useful.
THE COURT'S ACTIVITIES IN 2008 AND ACTIONS IN 2008 THE Court presents its future audit work in the work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and available to the public on the Court's website.
The number of special reports and opinions in 2008 was similar to that in previous years.
Results (number) 2008 Opinions 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 12 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 23 20 23 29 28 2 11 8 9
The audit strategy The audit strategy is based on the Court's strategic objectives.
33 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Professionalism Customer areas Further development and increase Audit methods, adequate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, the development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards of EU funds, cooperation with EU-ORKB, an effective Community control framework for control practices, in time, clarity and readability of reports, quality of performance control, increase the impact of reports on the strengthening of relations with the entities under review, in order to better understand the control process, as well as to better accept the results of controls, in order to strengthen contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as the budgetary authority and discharge authority Effective communication with EU citizens on the peer review process in order to strengthen the organisation, methods, processes and results and to strengthen and achieve as effective and as effective as possible for monitoring effective and dynamic staffing of high quality vocational training; modernisation of infrastructure Implementation of the STRATEGII control IT policy for 2009-2012 Maximising the overall results of controls in terms of efficiency through the best use of resources
The objective of the Court's audits and reports is to contribute to improving the EU's financial management and the protection of the EU's financial interests to EU citizens.
The main aspects were taken into account in the formulation of the Court's strategy of action: The implementation of the reports: Audit actions The work programme The audit strategies for 2009-2012 for 2009-2012 were developed in 2008.
A summary of this document is available on the Court's website.
The Court's strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of controls and improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These objectives will have a significant impact on the Court's work programmes during this period and on its efforts to improve.
The Court seeks to maximise the overall impact of the checks over a given period by: • selecting and planning checks which focus on risk areas and which are most interested in the Court's addressees; • continuing to present conclusions from the checks and favourable conclusions on the improvement of whether these proposals are implemented; • more audits are being carried out and new types of products are presented to complement the current annual and special reports; • preparing more special reports which are in line with time and more user-friendly; • continuing to develop relations with the main addressees, including the relevant parliamentary committees, the media and the general public; in this period, the Court seeks to improve efficiency by maximising resources.
These include: • better governance; • efficient and dynamic human resources policy; • rationalisation of control tasks; • improvement of IT tools; • development of expertise; • strengthening relations with stakeholders34.
The 2009 work programme includes the drawing up of annual reports presenting the results of audits of the accounts carried out by the Court in accordance with the EC Treaty and other EU rules.
In 2009, the Court identified a number of issues relating to the development of EU financial management policies and issues.
In terms of change in EU policies, the following topics have been selected: • growth and employment; • climate change and sustainable development; • Europe as a global partner; • better regulation.
In addition, the Court stresses the following issues in the field of EU financial management which, in its view, deserve particular attention: • the completion of expenditure programmes for the period 2000-2006, in particular in the field of the Structural Funds; • EU accountability and reform; • the progress made in implementing the Commission action plan on an integrated internal control framework, taking into account the concept of acceptable risks; • management and control activities at Member State level.
The Court's objective is to consider these issues in the annual reports, special reports and some new types of reports, from 2009 onwards, as outlined below.
The Court intends to publish a number of special reports and related new reports on the basis of the audit tasks it has chosen.
The planning and performance of selected control tasks and reporting in this area usually last longer than one year.
Therefore, most of the reports published in a given year are based on studies carried out in previous years.
Box 5 contains selected audit tasks which have been completed or completed and the results of which will be published in the special reports in 2009 or early 2010.
35 12 A more complete and detailed review of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2009 work programme, available on its website (www.eca.europa.eu).
Monitoring recommendations is an important tool for the Court to actively contribute to improving financial management.
The report will analyse how we have implemented our recommendations and, where appropriate, assess the effectiveness of the measures taken.
It is expected to be published approximately at the same time as the annual report at the same time as the annual report.
The report is addressed to the new Commission, which will start work at the end of the year, and is intended to serve as guidelines.
In 2006, the Court carried out a self-assessment which identified its strengths and weaknesses.
An action plan was then drawn up to address shortcomings.
The Action Plan sets out a number of actions as a result of which the Court has identified • its orientations, tasks, strategic objectives and strategic planning, • the internal performance indicators that will be gradually implemented (see section below); • the internal communication strategy, which is already being implemented and which has opened up new channels to improve the dissemination of information within the institution; • a number of actions to improve the quality of its reports, for example through new graphical planning to improve the legibility and external evaluation; • the gradually implemented strategy to improve the Court's relations with its addressees, the press and the general public.
In 2009, the Court will seek to take into account the observations and recommendations contained in the International Report on the peer review of the European Court of Auditors, published in December 2008, which represents an important step in the current Court's reform process.
Representatives of the national control authorities of Canada, Norway, Austria and Portugal have made a special assessment of the peer review carried out by their colleagues.
They also spoke with the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament in 2008. The final report was presented at the end of 2008.
The purpose of the peer review procedure was to assess the concept and functioning of the control framework established by the Court.
The evaluation covered the following areas: • planning and audit of financial statements and audit of budget implementation; • reporting on audit results; • services supporting the Court in achieving its objectives; • on-the-spot checks; • on-the-spot checks; • on-the-spot audits; • on-the-spot audits; • reporting on audit results; • on-the-spot audits; • on-the-spot audits; • on-the-spot audits; • on-the-spot audits; • on-the-spot audits.
The peer review team concluded that the structure of the review framework established by the Court is in line with international control rules and good practice with regard to the highest control authorities.
In addition, experts have stated that: • the Court does its work independently and objectively; • the Court's audit reports are based on appropriate and appropriate audit evidence, in accordance with international control rules; • the persons concerned; • the persons with whom the audit has been carried out are of great trust in the Court's reports and, as a rule, consider them to be fair, factual and objective.
The Court welcomes the constructive comments and recommendations of stakeholders which indicate how to further strengthen the role of the main audit body and point to the challenges involved.
This includes, inter alia, the need to:• develop a culture focusing on the Court's single approach as an audit body;• strengthen quality assurance and quality control activities to ensure a coherent interpretation and application of its strategy and control methods; • develop a risk-based control strategy to make the best use of resources to meet the different needs of the public.
The peer review report acknowledges that most of the recommendations have already been adopted under the Action Plan that was drawn up before the start of the procedure.
The Court intends to incorporate the other recommendations in its audit strategy for 2009-2012 after the exchange with workers and addressees and will make every effort to implement them in that period.
EUROPAAN COURT OF AUDITORS INTERNATIONAL PEER REVIEW OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITOR 38
IN 2008 the Court decided to introduce a system of key performance indicators (CL) for its control and non-audit activities to measure the performance of the Court's strategic objectives and objectives set out in the annual work programme.
CLI aims to increase internal and external responsibility and to increase productivity and quality of work.
In order to inform management of how effectively the Court, as an institution, is carrying out what it has carried out; • to support the decision-making process, they place an emphasis on efficiency and improve; • to inform stakeholders about the relevant issues relating to the efficiency of the Court.
Their role is to provide information on the Court's performance as an undertaking and becomes an integral part of the Court's management system.
The number and quality of audit work can also be improved taking into account the impact of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management.
The four key performance indicators (1 to 4) measure the impact of the Court's work.
They will be designed to be included in the Court's annual work programme for 2010.
In 2008, the Court carried out a performance check on the basis of ZLI 5 and 6.
ZLI 5 LI The number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned The Court adopted 79 % of the number of reports planned in 2008.
The annual report and most of the special annual reports were adopted as planned.
Of the 20 planned special reports, only twelve were adopted.
The remaining eight special reports were in the editorial phase on 31 December 2008.
ZLI 6 6 has speeded up the approval of 73% of its reports in 2008.
The annual report and all specific annual reports have been adopted in due course, but further efforts are needed to improve the deadlines for the adoption of the special reports.
CLI 7, which measures the number of main messages to be drawn up in good time, will provide useful information on the results to be drawn up in 2009.
The CLI [8] covers aspects related to the Court's financial management.
The two CLI (9 and 10) are intended to improve employee satisfaction and optimize the use of vocational training as a tool to constantly update knowledge of the latest testing methods and techniques.
Indicators of the Court's audit activities Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the audited entity Evaluation of the content and presentation of the Court's reports Percent of the Court's recommendations which: (a) are accepted by the audited body: (b) the number of reports accepted compared to the number of reports to be accepted Percent of the Court's audit reports Percent of the Court's external financial management reports: (a) the statutory auditor's opinion: (b) the decision of the discharge authority: the level of satisfaction of the Court's employees Average number of training days per person: 40 ZLI 1 ZLI 2 ZLI 3 ZLI 5 ZLI 6 ZLI 6 ZLI 8 ZLI 9 ZLI 10
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH THE EU NATIONAL CONTROL AUTHORITIES In accordance with the EC Treaty, the ECA must carry out checks with the highest audit authorities of the Member States (ORKB), while the Treaty of Amsterdam later added: With full confidence, the Court of Auditors and national audit authorities shall cooperate, with respect for their independence, in the Nice Treaty, with a view to extending the system through a clear call by the Court of Auditors in the 18th Declaration of the Final Act to establish a Contact Committee with the national audit authorities, in which all audit Presidents and the Court shall meet each year in order to discuss matters of common interest.
In December 2008, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the EU-ORKB Contact Committee.
The meeting focused mainly on the reform of the EU budget and on the renewed Lisbon Strategy for the period 2008-2011.
The Contact Committee seeks to strengthen cooperation between its members in order to improve external audit and accountability in the EU.
Over the years, the role of the Contact Committee has developed in parallel with European integration.
In addition to facilitating the exchange of information between CMR and the ERC, the team has made significant progress in the effective cooperation between the different control bodies.
At its 2007 Helsinki meeting, the Contact Committee recognised the need to address emerging or emerging new issues in due course, and considered that a permanent agenda to address such current issues should be established.
Therefore, the meeting of the Contact Committee in 2008 discussed the economic and financial crisis and agreed to organise workshops on the role of the EU-ORKB in the context of the crisis.
A network was subsequently set up to support cooperation in the control of the Lisbon Strategy and EU crisis management activities.
The Court took part in meetings of the WFD of candidate and candidate countries in the Institute and took part in meetings of the Expert Group (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro).
These meetings took place at the same time as the liaison officers' meetings in May and October.
The delegation of the Court also participated in workshops organised in Ankara, Turkey, on 8 and 9 July in order to examine/evaluate the internal control systems of public finances.
Throughout 2008 the Court has actively participated in the various working groups set up by the Contact Committee.
In 2008, which aims to develop common audit standards adapted to the EU environment and comparable control standards based on international audit principles, it held four meetings chaired by the Court.
Since December 2008, the Court has taken over the (mobile) Presidency of the Tax Working Group.
The Court continued to actively participate in the improvement of international control rules and procedures through membership of European and international organisations of public financial control bodies, including EUROSAI and INOSAI.
The delegation of the Court took part in the VII Congress of EUROSAI, which took place on 2-5 June in Krakow (Poland).
The main topics of the discussion were the introduction of quality management systems in control systems, the control of social programmes in the field of education and professional integration of people with disabilities.
The President of the Court has contributed to the role of the management in the implementation of the quality management system of the control system.
Within EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environment Working Group and the IT Working Group and participates in the EUROSAI Education Committee.
The Committee also participates in the work of the Working Group set up at the 7th EUROSAI Conference in order to develop a Guide on Best Practices in order to achieve quality within the Working Group.
The Court is also a member of the EUROSAI Task Force on the control of civil protection assistance measures. 42
The European Court of Auditors, together with the highest audit authority of the Slovak Republic, was appointed an auditor for the period 2009-2011 for the Congress of EUROSAI.
Since the Court took the position of a full member of INTOSAI in 2004, it has been actively involved in the work of the Audit Guidelines Sub-Committee (FAS), the Compliance Audit Sub-Committee (CAS), and the Performance Control Sub-Committee (PAS).
The Court has contributed to the subcommittee on promoting best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on Liability and Control of Civil Protection Assistance (Tsunami successors within the INTOSAI Task Force).
The first meeting of this working group took place between 30 June 2008 and 2 July 2008.
This meeting discussed and adopted the draft work programme for the period 2008-2010.
The main objective is to develop guidelines on accountability and control in this field in order to achieve all stakeholders through the competent authority, which is responsible for the development of guidelines on accountability and control in this field.
In addition to the coordinating function, the Court is responsible for a number of tasks, two of which, in cooperation with the Norwegian Court of Auditors.
The working group set up by it also requires the Court to be represented at meetings of the INTOSAI Bureau 43.
Among the 857 staff (officials, temporary and contract staff, but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) who were active in the service on 31 December 2008, 501 were auditors and assistants, 163 translators and 173 served as administrative assistants, and 20 served as president.
They have a variety of academic and professional backgrounds and the quality of their work and their involvement in their work are taken into account in the Court's results.
As regards staff, the Court defined as the main performance indicator (CL 9) the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's staff.
To this end, a satisfactory study was carried out to provide information on this issue and to support the decision-making process in this area.
WOMEN 54 % 46% 122001 122008 51% 49%
The following chart shows the share of the responsibilities of men and women as at 31 December 2008.
14 of the 59 directors and heads of department (24%) are women, which means a small increase in women's participation since 2007.
Assistant to the Secretaries (AST-Niveau) auditors (AD-Niveau) administrators (AD-Niveau) directors (AD-Niveau) directors and directors of departments (MANNER) MAN 45 32 % 68 % MAN (2007-2008) MAN 33 % 67 % 64 % 36 % 36 % 37% WOMEN 77 % 23 % 76% 24%
PROFIL ALTERS The following chart shows that the court is a young body (62% of employees are younger than 44 years).
Of the 98 employees of the Court who are 55 years of age or older, 27 of the 59 directors and directors of departments, which means that significant changes will take place at high levels over the next five to ten years.
Age profile 46 33 2 65 148 232 232 101 62 3 172 20 establishing 2 3 3 3 g 3 g 3 g 2 2 3 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h e h h e h e h h h h h h h h e h e h h h e h h e h h e h h h e h e h e h h e h e h h h h h h e h h h e h h e h e h e h h h e h h h e h h h e h h e h e h h e h e h e h e h e h h e s h e h e s h e h e h e s h e s h h e s h e h h e s h h e h e h h e s h e s h e h h h e h h e h h e h e h h h h h h e h h h h e h e h h e h h h e s h h e h h h h h h h h h h h e h e h e h h e h h h h h h e h h h e h s h h h h e h h h h h h h h e h h h h h e h h e s h e h e h h e s h h h e h h e h h h e h h h h h e h h e h e h h h h h h h h h h e h e h h s h h h h h h h e h h h e s h h e h h h h h h h h e h h h h h h h h h h h h e h h h h h h h e h h h h h e s s h h h h h h h h h h h h e h h h h e h h h h h h h h h e h e h h h h h h h h h h e s h h h h e s h h h h h e h h h e h e h h h h h h h h s h h h h h h h h h h h e h h h h h h h h e h h h h h e h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h e h h h h h h h h h h h h h h e h h s h h h h h s h h h h h h
In 2008, the Court had 97 staff: 48 officials, 18 temporary staff and 31 contract staff.
Employment depends on the availability of reserve lists from EPSO competitions.
In the absence of suitable candidates, the Court was unable to recruit as many new workers as was planned in many departments, so in the end of 2008 the total number of job vacancies (69) was higher than at the end of 2007.
However, it should be noted that, at the end of the year, a significant number of workers were held and that the workers concerned should start work in the first quarter of 2009.
The Court is currently working to shorten the time limits for recruitment procedures.
Translation is an important administrative task that enables the Court to achieve its communication objectives and is in line with its legal obligation to publish in 22 languages.
In 2008, the value of translations increased by 17%, mainly due to the adoption of more special reports.
The vast majority of translations are made internally, and during peak periods, during which normal translation capacity has been exceeded, translation orders are made available to the Translation Centre (CTOU) or external translation agencies.
In addition, translators participate in examinations visits and support examiners before, during and after examination visits, including in the subsequent stages of the examination reports.
Translators constantly support the updating of the content of the intranet and the website in English and French.
They shall also assist INTOSAI working groups and ensure that other specific needs related to the Court's activities are met.
The Translation Directorate of the Court actively participates in the work of the Interinstitutional Committee for Interpretation (CITI), is a member of international committees and participates in international conferences in the development of electronic translation and documentation tools.
CONTROL AS During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and to other countries benefiting from EU funds to obtain the relevant evidence.
These checks shall normally apply to central and local authorities involved in the approval, management and payment of EU funds as well as to final beneficiaries.
The team of controllers usually consists of two to three controllers, and the length of the examination trip can be up to two weeks, depending on the type of examination and the distance.
Within the EU, control missions are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities in the visited Member State, which provide useful logistical and practical support 47.
In 2008, audit travel costs amounted to EUR 3.29 million.
This comprehensive investment is essential to ensure a sufficient level of control of all levels and the location of the management of EU funds.
The table below shows the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in EU Member States and outside the EU in 2008.
50 40 30 20 10 0 5 4 3 2 1 0 Total: 283 CONTROL TRAVELS IN THE MEMBER STATES IN 2008 48 48 35 34 21 20 17 13 11 10 9 8 55 33 33 33 33 33 33333222 1 CONTROL TRAVELS IN THE MEMBER STATES IN 2008 Total: 42 Turkey Switzerland Malawi South Africa Tanzania Rwanda Peru Norway Kenya Bangladesh Angola Zambia Tunisia Sudan Senegal Autonomous Territories Mauritania Kosovo Jordan, Armenia Egypt Burkina Faso France Spain Belgium United Kingdom Poland Spain Portugal Sweden Greece Ireland Hungary Estonia Slovenia Slovakia Romania Malta Latvia Finland Cyprus Lithuania Czech Republic Bulgaria Luxembourg
BORROWING EDUCATION The profession of examiner requires continuous training.
In 2008, the Court's staff averaged 10 days of vocational training.
The number of specialised trainings increased significantly compared to 2007.
In 2008, the Court strengthened its support for the participation of its staff in continuous programmes in order to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and qualifications in the field of external audit, internal audit and IT audit.
Language courses in 2008 accounted for 48% of the total number of training days (compared with 52% in 2007).
In 2008, the auditors passed seven days of vocational training without taking into account language courses.
Based on the long-term strategic objective of GROWTH AND GROWTH GROWTH GROWTH AND GROWTH GROWTH GROWTH IN 2008-2011 and the training paths adopted in 2008 of the GROWTH GROWTH department.
Furthermore, cooperation with other interinstitutional institutions and bodies, such as the European Administrative School, has been successfully continued.
Box 6 presents a portrait of the staff of the selected body or body within the Court in order to provide the reader with an image of the work done, the staff, their context and their professional experience. 49
50  letting the Court report on the Intelligent Energy Programme 2003-2006 (Special Report No 7/2008) give an insight into the functioning of the aid scheme to improve the use of energy-efficient technologies.
It shall include the established allocation procedures for individual projects, monitoring and evaluation procedures, administrative costs and the impact of the establishment of an executive agency.
The study team worked closely with the rapporteur member, David Bostock.
The Director of Control was Hendrik Fehr, team leader Peggy Vercauteren.
Oliver Müller, Peter Zsapka, Zoltán Giday and Carl-Christian Buhr were involved, and Gerhard Ross, Thomas af Hällström and Peter Welch also played an important role in David Bostock's office.
The audit included a survey to obtain information from a broad group of participants.
Various costing techniques have been used to complement and complement the information available to the Commission.
The audit concluded that the programme was managed in accordance with the Commission's usual approaches and guidelines.
However, the expenditure model was not sufficiently targeted and monitoring and evaluation did not allow the overall quality of the programme to be assessed.
During the duration of the programme, relatively high administrative costs (for the Commission, the Agency and the participants) fell approximately equal to the amount paid to participants during the same period.
The establishment of an executive agency has improved the satisfaction of the participants in the programme.
From left to right: Hendrik Fehr, Director (25 years of court), David Bostock, Member of the Court (7 years of court), Zoltán Giday, Financial Audit Board (3 years of court), Peggy Vercauteren, Financial Audit Board (5 years of court), Oliver Müller, Financial Audit Board (6 years of court, Peter Welch, Board of Directors of the Cabinet (13 years of court), Gerhard Ross, Director of the Department (11 years of court), Thomas af Hällström, Financial Audit Board (8 years of court).
The budget of the Court for 2009 is approximately 0.16% of the EU general budget or 2.4% of the administrative budget of the EU institutions and bodies.
In comparison with 2008, an increase of 41 % was recorded, mainly due to the Court's budget for construction works. In view of the further increase in the number of employees, the staff should be accommodated in the second building in favour of the extension (building K3) for 2013 to be completed.
Negotiations were launched with the budgetary authority on the financing rules in February 2008.
As a result, the construction project, the total cost of which is estimated at EUR 79 million, is financed by four successive annual budgets.
In October 2008, the budgetary authority approved a tranche of EUR 55 million for the 2009 budget.
In 2009, some 52% of the total budget comes from human resources.
2007 2008 Budget Members of institutions Officials and temporary staff Other staff and services Mission expenses Other expenditure on staff and staff of institutions Title 1 Total Buildings Data processing and telecommunications Equipment and equipment: purchase, rental and maintenance Current operating expenditure Costs and conferences Information and publications Title 2 Total Court of Auditors 11 270 82 583 4 Total Court of Auditors 11 270 82 583 4 014 3,000 2 056 102 923 8 126 5 518 1 396 435 872 1 810 18 157 110 519 2009 (in 1 000 EUR) 11 718 92 086 497 3 290 2 684 114 275 62 891 6 269 981 439 868 1 921 73 369 187 644 12 061 88 712 4 248 3 212 2 286 12 110 5 879 1 147 121 080 132 769 876 1 813 22 250
Overall, the aim is to assess the performance of the different services in the implementation of strategies, programmes and actions to continuously improve.
In 2008, the Court's Internal Audit Department focused on the audit of accounting records, ex ante control, recruitment procedure, staff recruitment assistance and staff allowances, expenditure on buildings, expenditure on services and services, implementation of the IT strategy and review of the IT control framework.
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the internal auditor in 2008 were adopted by the audit authorities and incorporated in the corrective action plans.
The Internal Audit Committee met six times in 2008 and focused on monitoring the recommendations of the Internal Auditor.
Other issues related to the Committee's 2007 activity report and the Court's report to the discharge authority for 2007 on the internal auditor's role.
The Internal Audit Committee held two meetings with the Court's independent auditor to discuss the state of the audit for the financial year 2007.
The Court's external evaluation In its opinion on the audit for the financial year 2007 (OJ C 318, 12.12.2008), the Court's independent auditor presented the following conclusions: In respect of the Court's annual accounts: from our opinion, the annual accounts provide a true, fair view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2007, as well as of the results and cash flows for the year ending that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of the Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors. In respect of the use of resources and control procedures, the use of resources and controls:...
52
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 QJ-AA-09-001-DE-C
ISSN 1684-0666 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 DE EUROPEAN COURT OF4- COURT OF COURT OF OF ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 1684-0666 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE ACTIVITIES OF THE ISSN 1684-0666 OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 1684-0666
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2009
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2010 ISBN 978-92929207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518 © European Union, 2010 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
4 Welcome to the 2009 annual report on the activities of the European Court of Auditors.
The purpose of this report is to present to the readers the most important results and the progress achieved by the Court this year and to present to them the significant changes in the control environment and the internal organisation.mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
2009 was an important year of renewal for the EU, which was the year the EU chose a new European Parliament, the year the Lisbon Treaty entered into force, and the year the new European Commission was launched.
The new Treaty reaffirms the role and role of the Court and the status of the EU institutions and introduces changes to the management and control of EU funds, stressing the role of the European Parliament and stressing the responsibility of the Member States for the implementation of the budget.
The Court expects these changes to provide good opportunities to improve the EU's financial management.
In the section, the section decided to draw up a summary opinion on the risks and challenges facing the new Commission.
In this context, emphasis is placed on improving the quality of EU spending.
This year we have made significant progress in the implementation of our audit strategy for 2009-2012 and in achieving our objectives this time we have increased our performance and increased the use of our resources this year.
Our decision to submit to the Council of the European Union to approve the new Rules of Procedure to improve our procedures for the adoption of reports and opinions was a key step.
In addition, the number of Court reports increased from 42 in 2008 to 57 in 2009.
I am also pleased to say that our main product, our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, has also received another positive acceptance by our main institutional audiences, who have agreed with many of our recommendations.
In 2009, the Court continued its active cooperation with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member States (ORKB) to develop a common approach to the control of EU funds and to consider how the ECB can help governments deal with the financial and economic crisis.
The Court's results depend on the competence and motivation of 880 employees.
Their satisfaction is key to the success of the Court and is set out for the first time in this report.
I would like to thank the Court's staff for their tirelessness and commitment to their work in order to enable the Court to implement its mandate.
6 6 PROCESSIONS, ORDERS, ORDERS AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES, STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF OBJECTIVES The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible, in accordance with the Treaty, for the control of the EU's finances.
As an external EU auditor, it contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
Independence, integrity and impartiality of institutions, whose members and associates will provide their addressee with adequate audit results, with any form of interference through instructions or external pressure being rejected due to PROFESSIONALITY, and are recognised, in all aspects of their work, a high and exemplary level of professionalism of EXCELENC and EFFICIENC, due to the interests of its addressees, including important and appropriate statements, including the recognition of individual values, assistance to develop specific skills and rewards for results Active participation in the development of public control at EU and worldwide level, by promoting a team spirit through effective communication, increasing efficiency and efficiency in all aspects of its work to improve the management of the EU budget, and contributing to increasing accountability in the management of EU funds.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 7 PROFESSIONALITY OF OUTTUT ADDRESSATENKREIS ADDITIONAL USE AND GROWTH COMPLIED USES, COMPLIANCES, COMPLIANCES, SUPPLEMENTATION OF SUPPLEMENTATION AND COMPLIANCE OF FACILITY, FACILITY, USE AND FACILITY OF THE USE OF THE USE OF THE OUTFACILITY OF THE PROTECTION,ATION AND FACILITY OF CONSCIENCE OF, CONSCIENCE AND CONSCIENCE OF CONTINUATION OF SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CONTINUTION OF THE USE OF THE USE OF THE USE, OF THE COMPLIANCES AND OF PROSSIONS OF, CONSCIENCE OF OF THE OF CONSCIENCES OF CONTINENCE OF THE CONTINENCE OF CONTINENCE OF CONTINENCE OF THE CONTINENCE OF THE USESENCE OF THE CONSSION AND OF THE PROTACTATION OF CONTINENCE OF USE AND CONSENCE OF CONSENCESECENCE OF USE
8 THE COURT'S ROLE AND WORK 8 THE COURT'S ROLE 8 IS THE EU BUDGET The European Union's budget for 2010 is around EUR 123 billion, representing around 1% of the national gross income of the 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States EU funding plays an important role in funding public actions, and the overall budget compared to the GNI of several Member States is significant.
The revenue of the European Union consists mainly of contributions from Member States resulting from their gross national income (GNI change from 76%), customs duties and agricultural duties (so-called traditional own resources own resources. 12%) and VAT collected by the Member States (VAT) (VAT of 11%).
BOX 1. FOR WHAT DOES THE EU EXPECT ITS NEWS?
The EU budget is financed by contributions from Member States (mainly on the basis of national GNI), agricultural duties and duties and VAT contributions.
The EU budget is mainly used for purposes other than the national budget, mainly because of different responsibilities.
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1.1% Conservation and management of natural resources (mainly agriculture) 47.3% The largest area of expenditure in the EU is agriculture and rural development, primarily in the form of payments to farmers in the EU resources, in the form of payments to farmers of 1% of the budget expenditure, of which almost half of the budget is allocated to agriculture and rural development.
Another major part is the regional and social cohesion actions in the context of the launch of a wide range of projects, ranging from road projects in Latvia to training for the unemployed in the Netherlands.
This sector accounts for about one third of the budget expenditure.
The European Union as a global player of EU spending Source: The EU's general budget for the financial year 2010. Administration 6.4% 6.3% Sustainable growth (mainly cohesion) 38.8%
The budget shall be approved annually by the Council, i.e. representatives of the Member States, on the basis of the seven-year financial framework and by the European Parliament directly elected.
The European Commission shall draw up the budget and shall be responsible for its implementation.
Most of the budget In particular, in the area of agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure, the CAP is working in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on applications of the beneficiaries themselves, whether farmers or project managers across the Union9.
10 WHEN DOES THE COURT HAVE THE ROLE?
Democratic society needs reliable and publicly available information as a basis for discussion and decision-making both to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
The European Court of Auditors shall act as an external EU controller to ensure that EU funds, regardless of their place of use, have been properly booked and spent in accordance with the law and with due regard to the requirement to make the best use of the funds.
The Court's audit work is used by the Commission, the Parliament and the Council and by the Member States to improve the EU's financial management.
In addition to the Court's activities, many national audit authorities check whether EU funds are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
SUMMARY OF THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU BUDGET Commission level (DG, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing bodies European Court of Auditors National internal control level
2. Are financial transactions in all material respects compatible with the relevant legal framework and other regulatory frameworks?
3. Is financial management in line with the principle of sound financial management, i.e. the resources have been kept to a minimum (savings), have the results been achieved with the least possible use of resources (efficiency) and have the desired objectives (efficiency) been achieved?
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Special annual reports on cooperation with the Agencies' and decentralised Union bodies' accounts.
11 1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 According to the TFEU, the Court is required to make such a statement or opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This jurisdiction is widely known in the French acronym DAS (serious DAS) (in English) (in English) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French (in French) (in French (in French)) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French (in French) (in French) (in French (in French))) (in French (in French)) (in French (in French) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English)) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in French) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in French) (in French)) (in French) (in English) (in French) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in French) (in English) (in English) (in English) (in French (in English) (in English) (in English) (in English (in English) (in French) (in English (in English (in French) French) English (in English (in French (in English) French (in English (in English) English (in French (in English) French) English) French (in French (in French (in French) French (in French (in English) French) French (in French) French (in English (in French (in English (in English (in English) in French (in English (in English) French (in English (in French) in French) French (in English (in French) French) French (in English (in English) in French (in English (in French (in French (in English) in French) in French (in French (in French (in French (in French (in French (in French) in French) in English) in French (in French (in English) in French) in French) in English) in English (in English) in English (in French (in English (in French (in English (in English) in French) in French (in
12 HOW DOES THE COURT REQUIRE IN THE CASE OF REQUIRINGING THE VALUATION OF VALUATION?
The Court shall audit the annual accounts of the EU in accordance with the international audit rules in force in both the public and private sectors.
However, the existing international control rules do not include the Court's conformity control.
The Court is actively involved in the development of international control rules in cooperation with the national control authorities, which promote organisations which will standardise (INTOSAI, IFAC) 4.
In order to ensure that payments are compatible with the legal framework and other regulatory frameworks, the Court is based on the results of the examination of both the supervisory and control systems to prevent, detect and correct errors of legality and regularity and on the sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Other sources, such as statements by the management of the bodies audited in the form of annual reports on the activities of the Directors-General of the Commission, as well as the work of other auditors, shall also be used in support of the Court's conclusions.
With regard to performance control, the Court uses a wide range of control methods to evaluate management and monitoring systems and to evaluate performance data on the basis of regulatory criteria and the principles of sound financial management.
As regards the selection of subjects for the audit of the performance of the tasks, the Court seeks to identify the areas of control for which the greatest impact can be expected, in the form of significant potential for improvement in terms of savings, efficiency and effectiveness of EU expenditure.
3 The European Development Fund (EDF) is based both on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and on certain African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and on Council Decisions on the association of the overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see external relations, development and enlargement) and partly through delegations from beneficiary countries.
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of the Supreme Organisation of Audit Institutions) and the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (IFAC) of International Accounts (IFAC).
BOX 2 pickup EU BUDGETARY MSS 13 The Court does not have the resources necessary for the detailed examination of all EU budget-related operations.
Therefore, it uses statistical sampling techniques to present the results representative of the population concerned.
The Court monitors these operations until the final beneficiary of the grant, e.g. the project promoter in Italy.
The Court has repeatedly examined whether the proposal is compatible with the reality.
The representative sample allows for extrapolating the results to the appropriate population, i.e. the specific area of revenue or expenditure, and may form the basis for the general audit opinion, together with the information resulting from the evaluation of management and control systems and other sources.
SELECTION OFLECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTION TESTS OF SELECTION OF SELECTION TESTS OF SELECTION OF SELECTION OF SELECTIVE SELECTION OF SELECTION TESTS IN Italy
14 TASKS AND TASKS5 14 STRUCTURAL STRUCTURAL AND ORGANISATION The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body consisting of 27 members, each consisting of one member per Member State and members appointed by the Council for a six-year term after consulting the European Parliament.
Members shall elect a chairman from among themselves for a term of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
The five audit groups to which each member of the Court is assigned shall prepare reports and opinions to be adopted by the Court.
According to the organisational scheme, there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas, as well as other audit groups dealing with horizontal issues at the horizontal level at national level.
In addition, the Management Committee, composed of the members of the Court, shall be responsible for preparing the Court's administrative decisions.
At the end of 2009, the Court presented to the Council a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in order to allow the adoption of certain categories of Court opinions and reports instead of the entire College of Chambers.
These changes will improve and improve the Court's decision-making process, inter alia by reducing the time needed for the adoption of the decision.
Each Chamber has two areas of competence: the first area is the adoption of special reports, special annual reports and opinions; the second area is the preparation of draft annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund and draft opinions to be adopted by the College.
As in the case of the Court, decisions shall be taken by a majority of the Members of the Chamber.
Members may attend meetings of each Chamber but shall have the right to vote only in the Chamber to which they have the right to which they have been assigned by the Court.
Of course, all the Colleges are meeting to discuss and adopt documents for which the Court is, in itself, responsible, such as annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund.
Strengthening the role of the Management Committee.
The Committee shall consist of the President of the Court holding the Presidency and the President of the Chambers.
Administrative matters requiring decisions of the Court and decisions on procedures, principles or strategic matters shall be prepared by the Committee before they are submitted for approval by the Court.
The Member shall then present the report to the audit group and to the Court and present it to the European Parliament, the Council and the other interested parties following the adoption of the report.
For more details, see the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
THE COURT'S STAFF The budget for the financial year 2009 provides for 880 posts for the European Court of Auditors (at 31 December 2009).
The Court's audit staff shall be responsible for the planning and carrying out of audits and the preparation of draft reports on them.
Auditors work in groups of different sizes: for certain specific audits, the team consists of four or five auditors, whereas for some more detailed audits of the Court (e.g. audits of accounting/compliance audits on agricultural expenditure and consistency in order to produce an annual statement of assurance) there are at least 20 auditors.
In general, auditors need to obtain evidence as part of controls under different procedures: documentary checks in Luxembourg, visits to the European Commission and visits to Member States, where revenue from the EU budget is generated and where actions financed from the EU budget are implemented.
The Court's reports and opinions must be accessible to readers throughout the Union and throughout the EU in the framework of the audit activities, the Court must maintain contacts with bodies and other bodies throughout the Union.
This would not be possible without the Court's interpreters who translate their reports and opinions (in almost all cases, in English or French) into 22 official languages of the Union.
They also translate correspondence between the Court and other bodies as necessary and, in some cases, assist inspectors in carrying out inspection visits in the Member States.
The Court's administrative staff shall be responsible for a number of tasks relating to assistance to a multi-national organisation operating in the context of the EU.
This applies to finance, accounting, budget, buildings, information technology, transport, security, etc. The Secretary-General is the Court's highest representative and is responsible for the management and management of the Court. 15
16 THE EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT'S COURT'S COURT'S COURT OF COURT'S COURT'S COURT'S COURT OF COURT'S COURT'S COURT'S COURT'S (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKKKKstensten (SE) Harald Noack (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMA (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) KIKIS KAZAMIAS (CY) KIAS (HINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maart B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július Molnár (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIEN (K) KAZASK (CZ) K. (CZ) (H) K.S. K. (K.A.A.S.I.
The update is available on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu.
18 SUMMARY OF THE CONTROL REPORTS AND OPINION6 The number of special reports was higher in 2009 than in previous years, while the number of comments decreased.
The annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Fund have been adopted in accordance with the plan.
RESULTS (number) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Special reports 6 11 9 12 18 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 1 Annual reports 20 23 29 29 37 Opinions 11 8 9 5 1 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Each year the Court examines the annual accounts and the EU's revenue and expenditure.
The results of this audit will be presented to the EU, Parliament and Council political bodies in the Court's annual reports.
6 This section aims to include it in the Court's reports and opinions and not to summarise them.
For more information, see the full text of the documents adopted by the Court, which will be published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET: Six SOURCE EXPENDITURE • The financial statements of the European Union provide a true and reliable picture of the financial situation and of the results. • As regards the legality and regularity of transactions, the overall results for 2008 reflect the improvement of financial management in recent years.
In the field of rural development, the estimated error rate is lower than in previous years, but is still significant.
For the first time, the Court does not give a negative opinion on agriculture and natural resources not as a whole. • The second largest topic, with nearly a third of the budget, is still problematic as the most problematic area of the budget.
The Court estimates that at least 11 per cent of the total amount of reimbursement could not be made. • The Court's recommendations on the improvement of the supervisory and control systems adopted in the past remain valid.
They should be considered as part of an ongoing process where appropriate measures can be considered effective only after a certain period of time. • In addition, particular attention should be paid to areas of expenditure where the Court continues to face a high level of error.
In many cases, errors arise from excessively complex rules and regulations.
Simplification therefore remains a priority objective 19.
20 The Court's unlimited opinion on the reliability of the accounts concluded that, in all material respects, the European Communities' annual accounts for 2008 provide a true and reliable picture of the European Communities' financial situation and the results of their operations and cash flows.
The Court's unlimited audit opinion issued in 2008 an audit opinion on revenue and commitments in all policy areas, as well as on payments in education and citizenship, all administrative expenditure and other expenditure.
Limited control opinions on agricultural payments and natural resources with the exception of rural development were legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments under the thematic group auslöstEconomia and finance for research and technological development research and development under the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development within this thematic group within the thematic group in each detail were legal and regular.
Negative audit opinions The Court issued negative audit opinions to thematic groups: to grant coherence in research, energy and transport and catering and other sources: external aid, development and enlargement in the field of research and development in the field of transport and energy, and external assistance.
The payment in these areas was largely confused, although it was different depending on the degree of errors made.
The need to improve monitoring and control systems for the thematic groups in the field of research, energy and transport, external assistance, development and enlargement in the field of research, development and enlargement in education and citizenship in the field of research, energy and transport, education and citizenship in the field of research and development and development, and in the field of education and citizenship in the field of education and education and education, and in the field of education and education, education and education, and education and education in the field of education, education and development in the field of education and education.
In the case of the policy group Agriculture and natural resources and Agriculture, the Court also concluded that supervisory and control systems are partially effective.
However, he stressed that the integrated management and control system (IACS) remained, generally speaking, an effective control system.
However, improvements are needed in certain areas, in particular in the field of rural development, in which deficiencies have occurred.
In the case of the thematic group of its policy group, the Eco and Finance, the monitoring and control systems were considered to be effective in two of the three areas audited.
In the third area, In the WS area, systems were assessed only partially effectively, mainly due to the shortcomings in FP6.
For a policy group For a policy group, the Community's Community Community, the Court noted that the Member States' systems, which had been regulated by the errors that had been detected during the national controls, were, in most cases, at least conditionally effective.
The Commission, Member States and other beneficiary countries must take further steps to make the necessary improvements to the above groups in order to ensure that the risk of irregular expenditure is adequately controlled.
RAM 3 ionic provisions of part of the audit results 21 The Auditor may issue the following opinions: • unlimited audit opinions if it is shown that the accounts are reliable or the underlying transactions, i.e. payments are legal and correct in all material respects; • negative audit opinions if the level of error in underlying transactions is significant and extensive or is not reliable; • refusal to issue audit opinions if the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and sufficient evidence of the audit opinions, and their possible effects are both material and extensive; the limited audit opinion if it is not possible to deliver a full audit opinion but the effects of disagreement or limitation of the scope of the audit are not so important or important that it requires a negative audit opinion or a negative audit opinion.
22 BOX 4 checks on legality and on the legality and the legality of the accounts by area of expenditure The following table summarises the overall assessment of the supervisory and control systems, in accordance with the relevant chapters of the 2008 annual report, and gives an overall overview of the results of the Court's audits on representative samples of transactions.
The table provides the main information but not all relevant details (in particular the relevant information on the shortcomings of the supervisory and control systems and the types of errors) are included in the main part of the report.
ASSESSMENT OF THE ASSESSMENT SYSTEM OF KEY REVENUE Agriculture and natural resources: EUR 55 billion Cohesion: EUR 36.6 billion Research, energy and transport: EUR 7.5 billion External assistance, development and enlargement: EUR 6.2 billion Education and citizenship: EUR 1.7 billion Economic and financial expenditure: EUR 0.6 billion Administrative and other expenditure: EUR 8.5 billion Evaluation of supervisory and control systems External assistance, development and enlargement: EUR 6.2 billion Education and citizenship: EUR 1.7 billion Administrative and other expenditure: EUR 8.5 billion Assessment of supervisory and control systems Effective impact The extent of the estimated value of FQ > 5 %2 % ≤ FQ 5 % < 2 % (below the level of accuracy error)
The Court concluded that the 2008 EDF accounts constitute, in all material respects, a true and reliable picture of the financial situation of the EDF.
As regards the legality and regularity of transactions, the Court issued an opinion on the revenue and liabilities of the EDF.
The Court also found that there were substantial errors in EDF payments.
The Court considered EDF supervisory and control systems to be partially effective.
The additional 37 special annual reports on agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union for the financial year 2008 were adopted in 2009.
Union agencies shall carry out various tasks at different locations in the Union.
Each agency shall have a specific mission and shall manage its own budget.
Audits of the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the Union shall be the subject of specific annual reports, which shall be published separately.
With the exception of the European Police College, the Court issued, for all agencies, an unlimited opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions23.
24 SPECIAL REPORTS7 Selection and design of issues relating to economic control and compliance are based on criteria such as the risk of profitability of certain income and expenditure or compliance with rules, the volume of expenditure, the date of the last check, future changes to the regulatory or operational framework, as well as the political and public interest.
Since performance and compliance checks are complex and require a large number of detailed work, their full implementation usually takes more than one year from the initial stage to the final stage.
In 2009, the Court adopted 18 special reports.
Special reports are available directly on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) and are referred to in the Official Journal to their publication.
As in previous years, the reports dealt with research on financial management issues in many different areas, including, for example, EU food aid to the most deprived (No 6/2009) to the management of financial resources in the Commission (No 5/2009).
In addition to 18 special reports in 2009, the Court analysed the use of EU funds to transfer Chernobyl location to a environmentally sound state.
Recommendations on improving the management of EU funds granted through the EBRD were forwarded to the President of the Commission by letter (not published) of the President of the Court.
The special reports adopted by the Court in 2009 are presented below by area.
In order to illustrate the nature of the issues in question and the lessons learnt, a report was presented in a narrow format in respect of each of the thematic issues.
7 Special reports are available on the Court's website or available on the Court's website with an electronic order confirmation via EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH RETAINABLE GROWTH • N° 3/2009 SUSTAINABLE EXPENDITURE IN THE ABLE TO Structural Measures relating to waste water treatment for the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods W3/2009
He concluded that the development and validation phase was poorly managed.
If the implementation of EGNOS (geostatic navigation service for Europe) and Galileo is to succeed in mid-2007, the Commission must significantly improve the management of the programme.
The report contains a number of recommendations to facilitate this task for the Commission.
Finally, if the EU decides to join other major infrastructure programmes, the Commission must provide it with appropriate governance instruments.
The Commission's LIFE-Nature Management and Management Instrument for Milk and Milk Market Management ( LIFE-Nature) and Management Instrument for Milk and Milk Market Management ( LIFE-Nature) and the Commission's management of milk and milk products ( LIFE-Nature) (N° 14/2009) for the management and management of milk and milk products markets (N° 14/2009) (N° 14/2009) for the management and management of milk and milk products markets (N° 14/2009 for the management of milk and milk products) (N° 14/2009 for the management and management of milk and milk products) (N° 14/2009 for the management of milk and milk products markets) (N° 14/2009 for the management of milk and milk products (N)) (N° 14/2009 for the management and management of natural resources) (N° 14/2009 for the management and management of natural resources) (N° 14/2009)
26 Have the management instruments for the market in milk and milk products achieved their main objectives?
The Court has assessed the functioning of the milk and milk products market since the introduction of milk quotas in 1984 and has assessed the way in which the Commission manages the gradual deregulation of the dairy sector which started in 2003.
The situation at the end of 2008 is the basis of the Court's recommendations to the Commission: the prevention of new overproduction, the monitoring of the price-setting process in the food chain, the deepening of the reflection on the future of producers in less-favoured areas and the impact in which milk production on the environment is concentrated geographically, the further targeting of milk production to meet the needs of the European internal market and the high added value milk products which are able to export to the world market without budget support.
CITIZENSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, SECURITY AND LAW • No 2/2009 W • The European Union Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective public health solution? The European Union Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective way to improve health?
The Court has examined the European Union's action programme in the field of public health for the period 2003-2007.
The Court's audit was intended to determine whether the framework conditions for projects financed from the EU budget were defined in such a way as to effectively complement Member States' efforts to protect and improve public health.
The report shall include detailed proposals and recommendations for the development, implementation and management of the programme.
On the basis of its findings, the Court disputes the benefits of certain elements of the European public health programmes, such as the PHP.
The Commission and the Member States are invited to reconsider the EU's approach to public health funding.
EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER • No 1/2009 AL Banking activities in the Mediterranean under the MEDA programme and previous protocols • No 4/2009 on the Commission's management of non-state actors in development cooperation • No 12/2009 on the effectiveness of the Commission's projects in the field of justice and home affairs for the Western Balkans • No 15/2009 on the EU's assistance through United Nations organisations in the management of decisions and non-public control on development assistance development cooperation for Turkey in the framework of the management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission • No 15/2009 on the effectiveness of EDF assistance for regional economic integration in East Africa and West Africa in West Africa on 27 The European Commission's management of pre-accession assistance for Turkey has examined the management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission.
In particular, the first period of implementation of pre-accession assistance (2002-2006) was characterised by a number of shortcomings that had already occurred in previous pre-accession programmes.
The objectives set by the Commission for grants were not specific enough to enable the impact of the project to be assessed and to demonstrate the effectiveness of pre-accession assistance, the Commission did not have the necessary information.
However, the projects audited have produced the planned results and the results are likely to be sustainable.
While some significant improvements have already been made by the Commission, the Court, however, makes recommendations for further corrective action.
The areas where improvement is most needed include the definition of strategic grant targets, more realistic deadlines for achieving the objectives and the monitoring of the real results of the projects and the results of the projects, based on clear objectives and relevant indicators.
28 ADMINISTRATION • Managing 5/2009 • managing AMI • No 9/2009 managing human resources • No 5/2009 managing European Personnel Selection Office (ESSO) dealing with a significant increase in the number of competitions due to enlargement of the European Union and identifying the number of candidates available and managing in good time with the identified and geographically balanced lists of qualifications with the need for the number of candidates available and the balanced management of the management.
He concluded that EPSO successfully overcame the rise in competitions due to the enlargement of the European Union.
The following weaknesses should therefore be highlighted: the need for EPSO personnel was not reported in due time, the selection process took too long and the selection procedures on the basis of contracts represented, on average, only two thirds of the expected number of candidates (subscribed on the list of candidates) and the management information was not consistent or complete.
OPINIONS Another contribution from the Court to improving the EU's financial management is the issue of opinions on proposals or issues relating to financial management.
These opinions are required as part of the procedure for adopting financial rules8 or may be issued at the request of one of the other institutions of the Union9.
In 2009, the Court adopted an opinion on the proposal to amend the Regulation of the Committee on Budgets of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market on the Office's financial rules (the Financial Regulation on the Budget.
8 Article 322 TFEU.
9 Article 287 (4) TFEU.
The Court's audits serve the decision-makers in the institutions concerned, in particular the Commission, Parliament, the Council and the Member States, as a direct source of information in the European context.
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the Court's conclusions.
Although the Court's audit activities have the greatest impact on published reports and opinions, they have an impact on the entire audit process.
The Commission's replies, in particular, lead 29 As examples of the impact of the Court's work, the actions taken by the Commission in response to the resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2007 budget (which mainly impacted in 2009): in the area of agricultural expenditure, the management and control system of expenditure under the newly created European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) has been adapted to the EAGF guarantee scheme, so that the benefits of this system are to a large extent recognised for EAFRD expenditure (see paragraph 5.54 of the 2004 Annual Report and paragraph 5.57 of the 2007 Annual Report).
In the field of cohesion, the Commission is still working on a review of the existing legislation for the period 2007-2013, with a view to simplifying the reporting system for irregularities and committed itself to prepare a report at the beginning of 2010 on the action taken in 2009 and on the first effects of its action to strengthen the Commission's supervisory function for the management of structural actions (see paragraphs 1.53 and 6.36 (a) of the annual report for the financial year 2007).
In the field of external policy In order to strengthen control at the level of implementing organisations, the Commission intends to develop a specific tool to support these organisations in the management of EU funds and in compliance with EU rules (see point 8.33 (a) of the 2007 Annual Report).
In the area of internal policy, including research, the Commission has developed a multiannual control strategy under the Sixth Framework Programme, based on the detection and correction of errors which could not be detected as part of the documentary control before payment.
In order to simplify the procedures of the Seventh Framework Programme, the Commission introduced a Participant Guarantee Fund, which allowed for a significant reduction in the number of ex ante controls and safeguard measures to be taken (see paragraphs 7.43 (b), 10.34 and 2.42 (a) of the 2007 Annual Report).
Source: Report from the Commission to the European Parliament on the follow-up to the discharge decisions for the financial year 2007.
Special reports shall also be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
As they are published during the year, the presentation of special reports and the debate on this issue were usually held at Parliament and Council meetings at an earlier stage.
The results of the audit reports can be increased by addressing them in the relevant media in order to raise their attention and stimulate public debate.
As a general rule, the media report on the Court's annual report is quite extensive.
This was also the case in 2009, with the media focusing in particular on improving agricultural spending.
The press also followed several special reports with interest.
For example, the special report on the milk market (No 14/2009), assessing the extent to which the management instruments for the market in milk and milk products have achieved their main objectives, was the subject of intensive discussions in the Council and in Parliament and, during the period in which the sector was faced with various problems, the sector had a broad impact in the media and in the sectors concerned.
The Court is working on a further analysis of the impact of its activities.
In 2009 a mechanism for systematic monitoring of special reports was launched in order to identify and document progress in addressing the shortcomings identified and in the implementation of the recommendations contained therein.
This procedure will provide the Court, as well as Parliament and other interested parties, with additional feedback on the impact of its activities.
31 OPINION No 1/2010 of the Court of Justice on the improvement of financial management in the European Union: RISKS AND CHALLENGES In February 2010, the Court first expressed its views in its opinion on measures to reduce the scale of irregular payments in the EU budget and to improve the quality of expenditure (savings, efficiency and effectiveness).
The Court found that in order to increase recent progress in reducing irregular payments, legislation in high risk areas needs to be simplified, as well as more cost-effective control systems.
Such reforms should be carried out in the context of an ongoing comprehensive review of the EU spending systems.
The Court considers that improving the quality of expenditure is important, which can be achieved by applying the concept of European added value in the definition of expenditure priorities, as well as by addressing specific problems in the selection, development and implementation of expenditure programmes and grant programmes as defined by the Court.
CUSTOMS DIMENSIONS ON THE AREA OF INTERESTED HIGHEST AREA OF PAYMENT FOR PAYMENT, although the overall level of irregular payments has fallen, remain high in thematic groups of inconsistencies over time, in the framework of the Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, and in rural development expenditure, and in the external aid, development and enlargement programme.
Most irregularities are based on reporting on ineligible expenditure by beneficiaries, reporting on excessive eligible expenditure and non-compliance with payment conditions, for example in the field of public procurement rules.
These are mainly due to the complexity of payment systems and conditions and to shortcomings in risk control systems at the level of final beneficiaries.
SIMPLIFICATION OF SIMPLIFICATED LAW FRAMEWORK AND IMPROVEMENT OF MONITORING AND CONTROLS The Commission should address the specific systemic deficiencies identified by the Court in high risk areas and improve its supervision.
However, in the case of an increasing number of controls and, consequently, in the event of a decrease in the level of error, a point has been reached where the costs of controls are no longer proportionate to the benefits obtained.
Simplification should therefore remain a priority objective.
Rules and legislation that are clear and simple to interpret may not only reduce the risk of error, but also reduce the costs of controls 31.
32 ENTITLEMENTS TO THE CONCEPT OF EXPENDITURE PROGRAMMES In addition to simplification, the Commission should ensure clear objectives during the review of existing and the development of new measures.
More awareness of reality, greater transparency and accountability are often needed.
To this end, the Commission could further strengthen the existing procedures for the development of future strategies, in particular ex ante evaluation and impact assessments.
Taking into account the European added value in defining expenditure priorities, the Court proposes to clarify the concept of European added value in the relevant political declaration or in EU legislation to give guidance to EU political bodies in defining expenditure priorities.
The Court considers that the Commission should complete the budget review as soon as possible and take account of the results of the financial framework starting in 2014.
Improving the quality of expenditure should be of particular importance to the institutions of the European Union and thus be the main objective of the new Commission.
33 THE COURT'S WORK PLAN FOR 201010 The Court presents its future audit work annually in the work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and available to the public on the Court's website.
The work programme shall provide stakeholders with information on new and ongoing audits and on planned reports.
The Court has drawn up a control strategy for 2009-2012 which is based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of controls and improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These objectives will have a decisive impact on the Court's 2010 work programme and its efforts to continue to improve.
The Court seeks to maximise the overall impact of the checks over a given period by: • selecting and developing audits in areas of risk and the greatest interest among the Court's addressees; and • to further explore the conclusions of the checks and the useful proposals for improvement; • ensuring that these proposals are implemented; • selecting audits, including the overall scope of the proposals; • ensuring that the new types of control products are added to the current annual and special reports; • developing more special reports, bringing together time and facilities; • improving relations with the main addressees, including with the relevant parliamentary committees, and with the media and the general public; in this period the Court seeks to improve efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These include: • better governance; • effective and dynamic human resources policy; • rationalisation of control tasks; • improving IT tools; • improving competence; • strengthening links with research units.
33 10 A more comprehensive and detailed review of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2010 work programme, available on its website (www.eca.europa.eu).
34 For the 2010 work programme, the Court has selected certain audit priorities, including: • the multi-annual nature of a significant part of Community expenditure, including lump sums and recovery; • innovation and the single market; • human capital; • sustainable energy; • the Commission's strategy to simplify the legal framework for businesses and citizens.
On 1 July 2009, Luxembourg founded a new building and the second extended the composition of the European Court of Auditors.
Vítor Caldeira, President of the European Court of Auditors, Claude Wiseler, Luxembourg's Minister for Construction, Patrick Gille, President of the European Development Fund, the choirs under consideration by Kirchberg, and Eduardo Ruiz García, General Secretary of the Court, this symbolic first spade, bearing the signal that the construction had begun.
This extension of the existing two buildings of the European Court of Auditors will enable the staff of the Union to be accommodated as a result of successive enlargements.
In 2009-2012, the Court will seek to broaden the scope of the audit reports.
To this end, it will coordinate its activities with its main external addressees in order to ensure that it is able to better understand their diverse needs and to best meet their expectations as part of the implementation of the mandate under the Treaty.
A large proportion of the resources at the Court's disposal is intended to be audited by the Court in order to produce a Statement of Assurance (the so-called Statement of Assurance).
This requires an analysis and an audit of the accounts and operations of the general budget of the EU each financial year.
European development funds and each of the 40 European agencies and bodies shall draw up separate declarations of assurance.
The audit activities shall cover the period from June of year n to June of year n+1 so that the annual reports can be published in accordance with the Financial Regulation in November of year n+1.
Therefore, a statement of assurance for the financial year 2009 will be drawn up and published in 2010, and at the same time a statement of assurance for the financial year 201011 will be started.
The objective of the Court's work is to present clear conclusions on the state of financial and financial management in the various areas of the general budget and to make appropriate and cost-effective recommendations where possible.
The Court's annual report on the general budget for the financial year 2009 will continue to be in line with the structure established in 2007, taking into account the new budget structure12.
The arrangements will be drawn up within chapters relating to related policy groups (thematic areas), but this structure is largely not in line with the chapters of the new financial framework.
Furthermore, the Court will seek to present more transparent and coherent results and conclusions to make them clearer and more transparent and easier to compare between and between thematic groups, and between them and between the financial years.
35 11 More information on the DAS approach can be found on the Court's website: www.eca.europa.eu.
12 The Court has created the DAS-Think-Think-Think to reconsider the various aspects of the DAS-DAS approach, and it is therefore considered to reconsider the DAS-Think-Bank domains.
36 DIMENSIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS OFIMPROVEMENT OF THEIMPROVEMENT OF THE THEIMPROVEMENT OF THEIMPROVEMENT OF THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE IMPROVEMENT OF THEIMPROVEMENT OF THEIMPROVEMENTS IN 2008 THE Court decided to introduce a system of key performance indicators for its audit activities and audit activities (CL) to measure the results in the implementation of the Court's strategic objectives and objectives set out in the annual work programmes.
The aim of the ZLI is to strengthen internal and external accountability and to increase productivity and quality of work. SOURCE IndicatorS. • To inform management of how effectively the Court is the implementing body, of which it has taken, • to support the decision-making process which draws the institutions' attention to efficiency and quality issues, and • to inform the management of the relevant aspects which the Court is guided.
The purpose of the CLI is primarily the achievement of the Court's strategic objectives, as they concern the quality of the Court's controls, products, impact and economic management of the Court's resources.
They provide information on the functioning of the Court as an undertaking and do not form an integral part of the Court's management system.
Indicators about the indicators of the Court's statement under the Court of Justice 37 ZLI 1 Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the main advisers of the Court's reports ZLI 2 Evaluation of the quality and impact of the audit activities of the Court by the audit body ZLI 3 Evaluation of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by the panel of external experts ZLI 4 Percent of the audit recommendations adopted by the audit body a) Evaluation of the quality and impact of the audit activities of the Court by the audit body of ZLI 5 Number of reports adopted in relation to the number of reports ZLI 6 Number of reports adopted under the deadline ZLI 7 Percent of the audit reports ZLI 8 External evaluation of the Court's financial management: (a) Opinion of the independent auditor b) Decision of the discharge authority ZLI 9 Level of satisfaction of ZLI 10 The average number of training days in relation to the number and quality of the audit work can also be improved when assessing the impact of the reports and the Court's opinion on financial management.
The four key performance indicators (1 to 4) measure the impact of the Court's work.
They were included in the Court's annual work programme for 2010.
38 The number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned The Court adopted 91 % of the reports planned in 2009.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted in accordance with the plan.
Of the 24 planned special reports, only 18 were adopted.
The remaining six special reports were at the final stage of the editorial work at 31 December 2009.
The number of reports adopted in 2009 The Court adopted 67 % of the reports within a given period.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted within the deadline.
In view of the delays in the implementation of the special reports, the Court has not achieved the objective of CLI 6. Further efforts are needed to improve the implementation of the deadlines for the adoption of the special reports.
The Court shall send preliminary findings from the audit authority's audit findings in the audit notice in the measurement of the number of main audit messages prepared in good time.
It shall attempt to increase by 10% each year the percentage of the notifications of the checks submitted within the prescribed period, with a view to the long-term objective of making 80% of the notifications of the checks within the prescribed period (two months after the end of the verification visit).
In 2009, the number of timely audit messages increased by 16 % compared to 2008.
External evaluation of the Court's financial management: (a) the opinion of the independent auditor; (b) the decision of the discharge authority The independent auditor of the Court has issued an opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources and the European Parliament has given discharge in accordance with the Council's favourable recommendation.
The level of satisfaction of the Court's employees The interview on the satisfaction of the employees in 2009 on the satisfaction of the workers, 86% of the workers were generally satisfied with the work (an 80% target), whereas the level of satisfaction of the employees was 2.8 on a scale of 4 (an objective of 2.5).
The average number of days of training for examiners (without language courses) According to guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court seeks to provide examiners with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training.
In 2009, the average was four days.
39 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court has actively and fully continued international cooperation within the following bodies: • within the Contact Committee composed of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the EU Member States and of the Court; • within the Network of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the applicant countries; • within the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (EUROSAI); • within the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI).
The Court has contributed to the annual meetings of these organisations and to the improvement of international control rules and procedures and has actively participated in the committees and working groups set up by these organisations.
In particular: • President of the Working Groups set up by the High Level Contact Committee on Research and VAT...• Participates in the Working Groups set up by the High Level Committee on Research and Structural Funds in: Leadership in the Working Group on the Environment and Working Group on IT EUROSAI, in the EUROSAI Group, which develops guidelines on best practices in quality, in the EUROSAI Education Group and in the EUROSAI Task Force on the Control of Assistance in Civil Protection Assistance; • President of the Working Group on Civil Protection Assistance and Audit Assistance; • Participation in the IntosAI Audit Committees, in the IntosAI audit audit of financial statements, in the compliance with legal standards and economic control, and in the Task Force Group on the Global Financial Crisis 39.
40 STAFF AND SUPPORT SERVICES The Court's most important capital is its staff.
As of 31 December 2009, the Court had 880 employees (employees and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of the 525 employees (including 115 employees in the study of members) were assigned audit tasks, 163 - translators, 171 - auxiliary employees, 21 - officials of the President.
The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background and the quality of their work and their involvement are reflected in the Court's results.
THE EXTENDION OF THE COURT'S PLANS TO 31 DECEMBER (busy and vacant) Translation Administrative support The Court has committed itself to achieving the strategic objective not only (including the maximum use of resources) but also to achieving the strategic objective not only (including the use of resources) but also to achieving the strategic objective.
In 2009, he therefore continued to analyse and exploit the capacity to improve efficiency for all his activities by simplifying procedures and improving services.
In particular, the resources of support services, which have been made available through increased efficiency, have been deducted from those services and made available as far as possible for audit tasks.
This process has not yet been completed and its effects will be even more visible in 2010.
As regards human resources, the Court has identified the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's employees as the main indicator of implementation (ZLI 9) (see page 37).
A satisfaction study was carried out to provide information on this subject and to support the decision-making process in this area.
The Court is currently implementing measures to ensure that the possibility of achieving better results in the coming years is fully exploited.
2008 173 2009 Audit tasks 501 525 163 163 171 20 21 Service of the President Total 857 880
THE ATTENTION OF THE MAN AND THE MAN The participation of men and women was almost the same.
12.2001 12.2009 The following chart shows men and women at the level of responsibility at 31 December 2009.
Like the other European institutions, the Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities for staff management and recruitment, recognising the need for a more active promotion of equal treatment of men and women in recruitment at higher levels of management.
17 of the 64 directors and heads of departments/departments (26.5 %) are women, which means a small increase in the percentage of women since 2008 (24%).
However, most of them operate in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative departments.
The increase in the number of women in the functional group AD reflects the results of the last wave of recruitment.
43% of staff in grade AD5-AD8 are women.
Directors and heads of division 2008 2009 41 54 % 46% 51% 49% 76% 24% 73.5% 26.5%
42 Auditors I (function group AD) 2008 2009 Assistants I (function group AST) 2008 2009 Assistants I ) 2009 The following graph with the age profile of 862 of the Court's staff who served on 31 December 2009 shows that the Court is a body not exceeding 44 years of age (61% of the staff are not more than 44 years of age).
Of the 99 staff of the Court, who are 55 years of age or older, there are 24 of the 64 directors and heads of the faculty/reference, which means that there are significant changes at higher levels in the management positions over the next five to ten years.
170 150 131 103 63 34 2 67 % 33 % 63% 37 % 73% 33% 67% PROFIL ALTERS 161 47 1 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-
TERMINATION The employment policy of the Court is in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff is composed of both officials and contract staff.
The general procedures for the selection of posts at the Court are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Court also provides a limited number of traineeships for higher education graduates for a period of between three and five months.
In 2009, the Court had 112 staff: 69 officials, 14 temporary staff and 29 contract staff.
The employment of these employees depends on the availability and availability of reserve lists from EPSO competitions.
In 2009, the Court managed to employ an adequate number of new workers.
The number of jobs that were not occupied on 31 December 2009 decreased by 33% to 49 by 26 January 2010 and the number of jobs will continue to decrease in the coming months as the recent recruitment collapse will continue to decrease.
At 31 December 2008, 68 posts were not planted.
The reserve list for posts based on EPSO AD/126/08 was published in August and the first successful candidates joined the Court at the beginning of November, i.e. only three months later.
EDUCATION BORROWING EDUCATION The profession of examiner requires continuous training.
Moreover, due to the specific nature of the Court's audit environment, the auditors need good knowledge of foreign languages.
In 2009, the Court's staff completed an average of 9 days of vocational training.
Language courses in 2009 accounted for 64% of the total number of training days (compared with 48% in 2008).
In 2009, without taking into account language courses, the inspectors completed four days of vocational training (see ZLI 10 on page 38).
This figure is expected to increase in 2010 as the number of new workers will have to undergo a compulsory training programme.
Based on the long-term strategic objective of getan. "Development and growth" Together with the "training action plan for 2008-2011" and the "training paths" adopted in 2009, the vocational training department introduced substantive improvements in training activities and developed new training courses in line with the priorities identified by the Court.
Furthermore, cooperation with other interinstitutional institutions and bodies, such as the European Administrative School, has been successfully continued.
Box 5 contains a portrait of the farm inspection staff to show the reader how the work and the persons involved are carried out. 43
BOX OF 5 RAM OF GOODS IN THE OFF KNOWLEDGE IN BALKAN KNOWLEDGE OF BALKAN BALKAN KNOWLEDGE IN THE BALKAN BALKAN BALKAN KNOWLEDGE IN THE BALKAN BALKAN KNOWLEDGE IN THE BALKAN BALKAN KNOWLEDGE BALKAN KNOWLEDGE IN THE BALKAN BALKAN KNOWLEDGE BALKAN KNOWLEDGE.
The European Union's interest in this region is to promote security and long-term stability.
The rule of law, border security and the fight against corruption are fundamental conditions for EU accession and are a major challenge in the Western Balkans.
The European Commission is the main donor of funding in the region.
The Court's report on the effectiveness of the Commission's projects in the field of justice and home affairs in the Western Balkans (Special Report No 12/2009) in an area that is of key importance has made it possible to take note of the situation in this area.
The audit covered both investment projects and institutional projects in four areas: asylum, integrated border management, judiciary and police.
33 Completed projects have been evaluated on the spot, including asylum, prison in Albania, and the court responsible for human rights and war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Several border crossing points have also been visited in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, funded by EU funds, in order to assess whether EU action has led to improvements in the situation.
The study team worked closely with the rapporteur member, Maarten B. Engwirt.
The head of the inspection department was Raija Peltonen and Ossi Louko; the head of the team was Jussi Bright.
Enrico Grassi and Miroslav Matej were involved, and Horst Fischer and Jan Pieter Lingen from Maarten B. Eng played an important role.
From left to right: Ms Raija Peltonen, Head of Unit; Mr Jan Pieter LINGEN, Head of Cabinet; Mr Horst FISCHER, Cabinet-Atttaché; Mr Jussi BRIGHT, Head of Financial Department; Mr Maarten B. ENGWIRDA, Member of the Court; Mr Ossi LOUKO, Head of Unit; Mr Enrico GRASSI, Head of Financial Department; Mr Miroslav MATEJ, Financial Director i.E.
Translation Translation is an important action to support the audit to enable the Court to carry out its mission and to meet its communication objectives.
In 2009, total translation volumes increased by 5.2% compared to 2008.
The share of translation services provided within the prescribed period exceeds 95%.
Language support for auditors for inspection visits and reporting has been strengthened.
The Translation Directorate also supported the INTOSAI Working Groups and related to the other specific needs related to the Court's activities.
In January 2010, a new IT application (artemis) was introduced to improve the efficiency of translation management.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology provides verifiers with basic tools and services.
The main changes in 2009 were the following: • simplifying processes and continuing the transition to an electronic office through the use of automated permits and electronic forms, introducing electronic signatures and starting work on the creation of a data archive; • increasing the security of the Court's IT infrastructure through the creation of a data recovery centre and an automated advanced version of the Lots Notes platform, the core structure of the Court's information systems and archives; • adopting long-term IT plans for 2010-2012 in order to adapt information technologies to the main objectives of Court's audit and further work on ensuring a high quality service 45.
46 MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE Directorate for Finance and Aid Services.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
This includes internal controls and accounts and administrative and logistical services.
In 2009, the Directorate focused on the reorganisation of its services to increase efficiency and efficiency and increase the number of staff to relocate staff to the control services.
This reorganisation led to a reduction in the number of departments belonging to the Directorates (from five to three) and to the introduction of several posts in the audit services.
An important activity of the management was the construction of a new courtyard building (building K3).
In 2009 the project manager was appointed following the invitation to tender.
Construction works will start in March 2010 and will be completed in 2013.
The time frame and costs set for the project shall continue to be respected.
CONTROL During the Court's audit work, the auditors must go to the Member States and to the other beneficiary countries of EU funds to obtain appropriate audit evidence.
Visits normally apply to central and local authorities involved in the approval, management and allocation of EU funds, as well as to final beneficiaries.
The team of controllers usually consists of two to three controllers, and the duration of the trip with the exam may be up to two weeks depending on the type of exam and the distance.
In the EU, controls are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities in the visited Member State, which provide useful logistical and practical support.
The following chart shows the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in the EU Member States in 2009 (300).
In addition, 36 audit visits were carried out outside the Union in 2009.
47 50 40 30 20 10 0 RESEARCH IN MEMBER STATES (INSGESAMT: 300) 48 34 30 23 17 16 15 15 14 88 77 666 4 333 2222 11 France Germany Spain Italy Greece United Kingdom Poland Portugal Belgium Netherlands Denmark Hungary Austria Sweden Czech Republic Slovakia Lithuania Ireland Slovenia Latvia Romania Cyprus Finland Bulgaria Luxembourg Malta Estonia
In 2009, the overall level of implementation of the available budget was over 92%.
For Title 1 (Members and staff of the institution), the rate is 88%, with the lowest (82%) of Chapter 14 (Other staff and external services) due to lack of employment or lack of employment, in particular due to the savings achieved.
For Title 2 (buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating expenses), the average performance rate is almost 100%.
The amount of the payment under Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the construction of the second enlargement of the Court (building K3).
The first tranche of funding of the project, amounting to EUR 55 million, was approved for the 2009 budget, which was contracted and which was partly paid in 2009.
The remaining appropriations for building K3 have been carried over to 2010 and are intended to cover the costs relating to contracts with construction companies concluded on behalf of the Court by the project manager.
This appropriation will be used as specified by the Court in its proposal to the European Parliament and the Council at the end of 2008.
The financial year 2009 10 the 10th year 2009 was the year 2009 the year 2009 was the year 2009 the year 2009 the year 2009 the year 2009 The year 2009 was the year 2009 the year 2009 the year 2009 the year 2009 the year 2009 the year 2009 the year 2009 was the year the year 2009 the year 2009 was the year the year the year was the year the year was the year the year the year the year the year the year the year the year the year 2009 was the year the year the year The year the year the year the year the year the year the year was the year the year the year the year was the year the year the year the year the year the year the year the year was the year the year the year the year the year the year the year the year the year the year
The 2010 budget of the Court of Justice for 2010 is around 0.1% of the EU general budget and 1.87% of the administrative budget of the EU institutions and bodies.
The table below shows the breakdown of appropriations by budget heading.
In 2010, about 76% of the total budget comes from human resources.
The 2010 budget fell by 21% compared to 2009, mainly due to the reduction of appropriations for the new Court building (K3).
The total cost of building K3 is estimated at EUR 79 million to be financed over the next four years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 6 million in 2012.
At the end of the financial year, the Member States of the European Union, the Commission, the Commission, the Commission, the European Commission and the Member States, and the Member States and the Member States of the European Union, have indicated the expenditure of the Member States and of the Commission of the Member States for the financial year, and of the Commission for the financial year and for the financial year and for the financial year, the expenditure of the European Union for the financial year and for the financial year, and the expenditure of the financial year, and the expenditure of the European Parliament and of the Council for the financial year and for the financial year and the financial year for the financial year and for the financial year and for the financial year and for the year and for the year and for the year, the year, the financial year and the financial year and for the year and for the year and the year, the year and the year, and the year, and for the year, the year and year and the end of the year, the end of the year, and the end of the year of the year, the year, the year and the end of the end of the year, the year and the year and the year of the year in and the year, in which the year, in which the year the year the end of the European financial financial financial year and in and the year the financial financial year, the European financial year, the European financial year in and the year in which the European financial year, in which the European financial year the European year, of the year, and the year, and the year, for the European financial financial year, the year the year, and in the European year in and the year, and in the financial year, and the financial year the end of the European Union, the year of the year the European Union, and the end of the year, the end of the European financial year, the year, and the year, and in which the year of the end of the year in the year the year, and in the end of the end of the year of financial year of the financial year, in the year, and the end of the year, the European year of the end of the European financial year of the end of the year, the end in and the financial year in the year, in the year end of the year, in the year, and the end in and the end of the year, the financial year in the year, and in and the year, in
50 REVISION The Commission's preparation and administrative and internal control services aim to support the Court's objectives through a systematic and methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
Moreover, the Internal Audit Department, which proposes the Court's effectiveness.
This requires a continuous evaluation of the internal control systems within the Court in order to assess their effectiveness.
In 2009, within the Internal Audit Section, the Court focused mainly on accounting checks (accounting checks), ex ante checks, checks on remuneration and deposit accounts, monitoring of contracts and procedures for the award of public contracts, as well as analysis of the transport process.
Most audit recommendations issued by the internal auditor in 2009 were accepted by audit entities and included in the corrective action plans.
The Court's internal audit committee shall supervise the internal auditor's activities and ensure his independence.
It shall re-examine and approve the work programme and the internal auditor's reports and shall entrust them with specific audit tasks if necessary.
In 2009, the unit.... the internal review of the UCITS was verified and certified by the independent auditor of Deloitte S.A.
EXTERNIFICATION OF THE COURT The independent auditor's report on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2008 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 23 October 2009.
In the opinion of the Court's Independent Auditor (PricewaterhouseCoopersorl), it was stated that the annual accounts: In our opinion, the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2008, the financial situation and the cash flows at the end of the year, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 and the financial reporting of the European Court of Auditors.
52 I, the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that, as authorising officer by delegation, the information submitted to the Court for drawing up this report is correct and accurate13 and • I am sufficiently sure that the appropriations made available for the actions described in this report have been used to achieve the objectives planned and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the necessary guarantees of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions have been necessary under the control procedures established14.
Such reasonable assurance shall be based on the assessment of the signatory and on the information at its disposal, such as the results of the ex post audit, internal auditor's reports and the reports of the independent auditor of the previous financial years.
The undersigned confirms that he is unaware that he is not aware of any unsubstantiated situation that could harm the interests of the institution.
Luxembourg, 12 February 2010 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 13. In this context, Eduardo Ruiz García,,,,,,,, that, that, that, that, that, that,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
14 The term "facts underlying the accounts" refers in this context to operations in respect of which the undersigned authorising officer by delegation is the authorising officer.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2009 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2010 Eigenverbrauch 52 S.. 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/2651
Where do I get EU publications? Publications payable: • at EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the bookshop indicating the title, publisher and/or ISBN number; • directly at one of our sales points.
You can obtain your contact details at http://bookshop.europa.eu or by sending a fax to +352 2929-42758.
Free publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • via European Commission representations and delegations.
The contact details of the institution can be obtained from http://ec.europa.eu or by sending a fax to +352 2929-42758. www.eca.europa.eu
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-92-9207-635-1 QJ-AA-10-001-DE-C
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2010
The European Court of Auditors has set the following values: The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the audit of EU funds in accordance with the Treaty.
As an EU external auditor, it contributes to improving EU financial management while, at the same time, acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens by promoting accountability and transparency.
The independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is characterised by fairness and impartiality, which is recognised as a professional and quality and influence of its work, and which provides its addressees with valuable support for improving EU financial management.
Integrity, Integrity and Integrity OF PROFESSIONALITY OF ADDITIONAL ADDITIONAL PROFESSIONAL PROFESSIONALITY AND EFFIciency Independence, integrity and impartiality for institutions whose members and employees draw up adequate, timely, high-quality reports based on reliable findings and evidence, taking into account the needs of the recipients and taking into account the relevant and relevant statements on which the opinion is based, helping to further develop specific skills and rewards in developing the team's spirit, ensuring effective communication with the aim of ensuring adequate audit results for the recipients, with any form of influence in the form of instructions or external pressure being rejected due to the high and proven level of professionalism in all aspects of their work, actively contributing to the further development of public control at EU level and increasing efficiency in all aspects of their work, contributing to the effective improvement of EU budget management, and contributing to increasing responsibility for the management of EU financial resources
3 CONTENTS Page 4 training 5 7 9 in 25 9 necessary in 25 25 h in 25 h in h in h in h in h in h h in h h h in h in h h in h in h in h h in h h h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h h h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h h in h in h in h h in h in h in h h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h in h h in h in h in h h in h in h in h h in h in h h in h in h h in h in h in h in h h in h h in h in h in h
4 COMPANIES Welcome to the fourth edition of the annual report of the European Court of Auditors. This year, we took the opportunity to re-divide the content into two main sections: two main sections: our activities....
In 2010, the Court of Auditors had two important opportunities to participate in the debate on the reform of EU financial management.
At the beginning of the year, the Court presented an opinion to the new Commission on the main risks and challenges of improving the EU's financial management and at the end of the year an opinion on the Commission's proposals for amending the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the EU.
In the perspective of 2011, the Court will continue to implement its values and continue to develop the results and results achieved.
We will once again present high-quality, independent and objective reports and opinions, which will contribute to improving EU financial management and contribute to improving accountability and transparency, and, in particular, will continue to monitor progress in EU economic governance and will address new legislative proposals which will have an impact on EU financial management after 2013.
We are planning to publish 45 annual reports, i.e. annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and of the European Development Funds, as well as specific annual reports on agencies, institutions and other bodies.
Special reports are an important opportunity to achieve added value, as they focus on areas where there is an increased risk and, in particular, on areas that are of particular importance to consumers and, in particular, to provide information on the quality of EU spending in different areas, ranging from the financial instruments and guarantee instrument for SMEs, to projects funded by the EU in the field of electronic administration and the single payment scheme in agriculture.
In continuing to implement the 2009-2012 strategy, the Court hopes that it will be able to make full use of the advantages of its recent reforms, including improved decision-making procedures; the Court will continue its efforts to recruit appropriate staff, to minimise the number of employees to the number of jobs and to continue to develop its employees.
Without the involvement and professionalism of all the Court's staff in 2010, we would not have achieved what we have achieved.
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5 7 2010 ON THE ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE EU's General Budget and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2009 by 40 Special Annual Reports on the various EU agencies, institutions and other bodies for the financial year 2009 by 14 Special Reports on the audit of the implementation of the EU budget for the opinion on improving the EU's financial management by five other opinions on new or amended EU legislation, including on the proposal to amend the Financial Regulation for legal participation in international financial control and cooperation practices, including on the development of new standards for the highest audit bodies (ISSAI) on Pilot Project with coordinated audits on the regularity of agricultural expenditure involving the highest audit bodies in the Netherlands and the Czech Republic, on the submission of a report on all key performance indicators showing that the main addressees are satisfied with the Court's quality of the Court's work on the revision of the Court's rules for the implementation of the Court's rules and with the aim of improving the decision-making procedures for the selection of 97 new services, including in the control of the national control bodies and the Czech Republic, of the five budget implementation indicators for the management of the budget with regard to decrease
9 OUR CONTROL REPORTS AND NOTES The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: o o Annual reports are: o Annual reports on the audit of financial statements and on the control of compliance with the rules for auditing financial statements and reports of specific financial years (including specific annual reports (including specific annual reports published separately for the agencies, institutions and other bodies of the European Union); o special reports on audits, which can be published at any time during the year; with the results of selected audits, mainly of economic efficiency audits for the assessment of savings, economic efficiency and efficiency in selected areas of revenue and expenditure; o opinions on draft legislative acts having financial implications.
Number of reports and opinions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Annual reports (general budget of the EU and of the EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Annual reports (agencies, institutions and other bodies of the EU) 23 29 29 37 40 Special reports 11 9 12 18 14 Opinions 8 9 5 1 6 The full text of the reports and opinions is available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
• With the exception of the two areas of expenditure (in economic and financial terms (in terms of administrative and other expenditure) the payments from the budget are still a significant irregularity. • The Court estimates that the most likely error rate of cohesion policy expenditure was significantly lower than in previous years and in general the error rate estimated by the Court has decreased in recent years. • The Commission has improved its data on the recovery of amounts unduly paid and other corrections.
However, these data are not fully reliable and do not allow the Commission to make a reliable comparison with the error rate estimated by the Court; the Court's report points out, on the basis of recommendations on how financial management can be improved by strengthening management systems and simplifying the rules and regulations.
The Court published its annual report on the European Development Funds for 2009 on 9 November 2010 together with its annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2009.
In December 2010, the Court published 40 detailed annual reports on EU agencies, institutions and other bodies for the financial year 20092.
The Court found that the supervisory and control systems of the control systems are partly effective in ensuring the regularity of payments and in particular recommends improving certain aspects of EDF financial management, including the cost-effectiveness of control of expenditure, the audit of annual audits of completed projects and the control of the use and monitoring of budget support.
12 Special reports adopted in 2010 When selecting and selecting tasks related to performance and legality checks, the Court always aims at achieving the maximum impact and making the best use of the resources allocated to these tasks.
The Court takes into account the following factors when choosing the subject matter: • the risk to the economy or compliance with legal standards in the area of revenue or expenditure, • the level of revenue or expenditure, • the time since any previous control, • future developments in the legal or operational framework, • the political and public interest.
In order to obtain the necessary control evidence, the Court should carefully plan and carry out the selected performance and compliance checks and, before the report is published, give the audited authorities the opportunity to express their views on their findings and to formulate their replies.
Therefore, these checks usually last longer than one year.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITOR EN IMPROVING TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE ON TRANS-EUROPEAN RAIL AXES: HAVE EU RAIL INVESTMENT INVESTMENT INVESTMENT INVESTMENT RAIL IMPROVING PERFORMANCE ON TRANS-EUROPEAN RAIL AXES: HAVE EU RAIL INVESTMENT INVESTMENT INVESTMENT INVESTMENT RAIL
Special Report No 8 2010 ISSN XXXX-XXXX
13 PRELIMINARY PRELIMINARY TESTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY TESTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PRELIMINARY TESTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PRELIMINAL FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINAL THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINAL THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMIN THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE TESTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE TESTS FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE TESTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS OF ALL FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS
Specific planning, including the definition of objectives, scope, approaches and methods to be used.
Analysis of findings and confirmation of facts by the audited entity.
Preparation of the draft special report.
Counter-decision procedure with the EU institution examined.
3 The figures reflect recent developments in the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and current prices (source: European Commission).
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of supporting actions in the field of projects in • Studies of projects and the development of new infrastructure under the Sixth Framework Programme for Research (Special Report No 2/2010) in the framework of the design research framework in order to examine the feasibility of possible future research facilities and to support the development of new or improved existing infrastructure in the framework of the development of new infrastructure or the improvement of existing infrastructure.
During the audit, the Court examined whether the two actions effectively contributed to the achievement of the infrastructure objectives of the 6th Framework Programme for Research 2002-2006. • Impact assessments in the EU institutions: do they help in decision-making?
(Special Report No 3/2010) The impact assessment is one of the key elements of the Better Regulation policy to improve and simplify EU legislative proposals and is examined to verify that the impact assessments carried out by the Commission have effectively supported the decision-making process in the EU institutions and that the comments in this report are also relevant to other budgetary areas.
• Does the design and management of mobility actions under the Leonardo da Vinci programme allow for effective results?
(Special Report No 4/2010) adjusting mobility projects under the Leonardo da Vinci programme enable organisations active in the field of vocational education and training in vocational education under the vocational education and training programme in another European country. • Improving the effectiveness of transport in trans-European railway axes: Are EU rail infrastructure investments effective in the framework of the integrated lifelong learning programme in the framework of the Commission's and national agencies' evaluation?
(Special Report No 8/2010) (see box No Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see box No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Frame No 8/2010) (see Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Frame No 8/2010) Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) No 8/2010) (see Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Frame No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010 No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see box No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010 No 8/2010 No 8/2010 No 8/2010) (see Special Report No 8/2010 No 8/2010 No 8/2010 No 8/2010 No 
(Special Report No 9/2010) Special Report No 9/2010 of the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for the 2000-2006 programming period of more than EUR 4 billion for the financing of projects in the field of water supply infrastructure for households. The Court examined whether these funds were used effectively in order to address a number of needs, such as increasing water availability, increasing geographical coverage, improving the efficiency of water supply systems and improving the quality of services. 15
16 THE SUPERVISION OF ECONOMIC STUDIES IMPROVING THE TRANSPORT TRANSPORT OF THE STRONG TRANSPORT ON THE STRONG BASE: NEEDS SUPPLEMENTARY EU INVESTMENTS IN THE RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE BASE IN THE CONCLUSION OF THE EU'S INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE EU'S INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE EU'S INFRASTRUCTURES, which examined whether this effectively contributed to the efficiency of the trans-European axes.
Following the forthcoming revision of the TEN-T guidelines in 2011, the Court's report was presented at a particularly favourable time. The Court recommended that the Commission cooperate with Member States and railway authorities in order to identify the particularly needed trans-European corridors and, where necessary, to gain knowledge in order to improve the analytical base.• place greater emphasis on eliminating practical restrictions on international rail transport;• support and facilitate cooperation between authorities in the Member States responsible for the railway sector with a view to joint planning for changes and common practical solutions to the problems.
17 wrote Gareth Roberts, director of the inspection team, who very quickly got acquainted with European rail transport and saw some examples of the success of the fantastic modern rail, but also some sections of the network, which seemed to come from another era.
We wanted to examine to what extent the European rail system would gradually turn into a network, turning into a network.
10 people took part in the job because we had to cover many different languages.. I really enjoyed working on this exam.
Since then, I have become a fan of the railroad...mmmmmmmmmmmmm.Andrej Minarovič, the Labour Inspector in Germany and Austria.
At the end of the audit, Fernando Pascual Gil, as part of the team, received the nickname "Maulkopt" in connection with the time in the railway tunnels in the Alps and the Pyrenees. The inspection team visited eight Member States and examined the impact of 21 railway projects co-financed by the European Union under the trans-European transport networks and cohesion policy on trans-European rail transport.
To this end, members of the team crossed freight trains and crossed the Alps and visited large tunnels.
These visits were a valuable addition to the information obtained by the auditors by reviewing the reports, interviews of railway workers and ordinary financial analyses.
18 Conservation and management of natural resources In view of the amount of EUR 413 billion for 2007-2013, the EU has extensive political competence and responsibility for agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment, and three quarters of the resources are allocated to the agricultural markets and direct payments to farmers, which are financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF), the most interested in the pillar of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
More than one fifth of the expenditure is intended to support rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
Agriculture and rural development shall be managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports: • Implementation of the Leader approach for rural development (Special Report No 5/2010). Leader is a bottom-up approach to rural development based on local partnerships. • The review assessed whether the Leader approach was implemented in a way that provided additional benefits compared to a top-down approach while minimising risks for sound financial management. • Has the reform of the sugar market achieved its main objectives?
(Special Report No 6/2010) (In 2006), the EU has carried out a thorough reform of the sugar sector aimed at ensuring the competitiveness of the EU sugar industry, stabilising the markets, ensuring supply and ensuring an adequate standard of living for the agricultural population.
The review examined the effectiveness of the special reform activities. The EU as a global partner Together with the enlargement of the EU in the field of external relations aims to achieve three main objectives: to achieve stability, security and prosperity within its neighbourhood (..., with the EU and its neighbourhood policy in this area...); to actively promote sustainable development at international level (... the EU as a partner for sustainable development...), to promote global governance and to ensure strategic and civil security (... the EU as a global player...).
Expenditure shall be managed by the Commission mainly by its central departments or delegations.
Some support measures will also be managed jointly with international organisations. • The Commission's management of the system of veterinary checks on meat imports following the 2004 sanitary reform (Special Report No 14/2010) following the introduction of the veterinary checks on imports is an important element of the EU's food safety policy and contributes to the reduction of the risk of disease and health crises which may generate high costs for the EU budget. In the framework of the audit of the EU food hygiene reform introduced in 2006, an evaluation of how the Commission monitors the EU veterinary control system at border inspection posts has been carried out.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Management of general budget support in ACP countries and in Latin America and Asia by the Commission (Special Report No 11/2010) • General budget support is widely recognised by many donors, including the European Commission, as the most effective way of providing development assistance.
The evaluation examined whether the Commission effectively managed budget support programmes in the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and Latin America and Asia19.
20 • EU aid for the development of basic education in subSaharan Africa and south Asia (Special Report No 12/2010) in the framework of the Education for All initiative and the Millennium Development Goals of the EU and the international donor community have committed themselves to providing basic education for all children, to removing gender inequalities and to improving the quality of education and to assessing whether EU development assistance has contributed to the achievement of these objectives in subSaharan Africa and south Asia and whether the Commission has satisfactorily managed its activities.
The revenue of the European Union budget is mainly financed by own resources and other revenue.Traditional own resources of the European Union... mainly from revenue duties... is approximately 12% of revenue other than VAT. Most of the Union's resources (70%) come from own resources based on gross national income and it is the resident's income... • Has the new European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument in the Southern Caucasus (Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia) been successfully mobilised and achieved results?
(Special Report No 13/2010) developed by the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) provides a framework for the planning and implementation of assistance actions for partner countries and territories.
Since 2007, over € 311 million have been allocated to three countries in the Southern Caucasus.
In 2010, the Court adopted a special report on • Simplified customs procedures (No 1/2010) for simplified customs procedures authorised economic operators benefit from accelerated customs clearance and a simplified system for the payment of customs duties in the field of EU revenue.
The audit assessed the effectiveness of the legal framework and the approach of the Commission and the Member States to control, and in 2010 opinions on proposals for new or revised legislation with financial implications also contributed to the improvement of EU financial management.
21 22 The conduct of the budget rule not implemented by the Court of Justice Opinion 6/2010 concerns the Commission's important proposal for a revision of the Financial Regulation, which regulates the way in which the EU budget will enter into force, will be distributed and entered in the accounts.
Based on Opinion No 1/2010 (see above), the Court also notes that the improvement of the quality of EU expenditure in certain areas of expenditure in the EU budget requires simpler and better regulation, as well as other measures to support, support and encourage managers in the Commission, in other institutions and in the Member States.
Current contacts shall be maintained by liaison officers appointed by each OPCW.
Pilot project will be completed in 2011 24.The CMR network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries The Court actively participated in the meetings of the CMR network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia) 4 which took place in parallel with the meetings of the Contact Committee (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia).
On 4 February 2011, the Court continued its active participation and participation in the improvement of international audit rules and procedures through the membership of European and international organisations of public financial control bodies, in particular INTOSAI5 and their European regional group EUROSAI.
The delegation of the Court took part in the 20th INCOSAI conference held in South Africa on 22 and 27 November 2010.
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of INTOSAI, it has actively participated in the sub-committees on the various types of examinations, and the Court has also contributed to the subcommittee on promoting best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews and has contributed to the promotion of more intensive efforts to develop the competences of INTOSAI members.
Since 2008, the Court has been chairing the referral Working Party.
The main objective of these groups is to develop guidelines on responsibility for crisis assistance and to identify and disseminate best practices and to focus on activities aimed at stakeholders (Multilateral Organisations, Aid Organisations, Governments and Private Controllers) which were presented in November 2010.
In 2010, the Court also participated in the INTOSAI Task Force provided by EUROSAI. The Court is represented in the Environment Working Group and in the IT Task Force and participates in the EUROSAI Education Committee.
The Court also participated in the work of the Working Group set up at the 7th EUROSAI Summit in 2008, in order to draw up a guide on best practice in order to achieve quality in the OPCW. The Court is also one of the auditors of EUROSAI 25.
26 OUR MANAGEMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIES FOR 2009 audited by the Court in recent years, following self-assessment and peer review (2008), on the framework conditions for audit management, the internal reform process has started.
As a result, a strategy was developed for 2009-2012 to address the shortcomings identified; the overall objectives for the period are to maximise the overall impact of controls; to improve efficiency through the best use of resources.
Many of the priority actions of the strategy have already been completed; the remaining actions will be implemented in 2011 and 2012; the main achievements in 2010 include: the achievement of the objective: 12-15 reports on economic control per year; the development of new products; the risk and challenges document for the new Commission (opinion No 1/2010) and the new reporting system on the Court's recommendations since 2012; the revision of the Court's rules on the improvement of decision-making procedures by introducing chambers and strengthening the governance structure; and the revision of all performance indicators; the further development of the approach to the annual review of the implementation of the EU budget (certificate of assurance) on the basis of the recommendations of the panel of experts supported by external experts; and the revision of the structure of the positions of the control services support services.
6 Audit strategy 2009-2012 on the Court's website.
27 The implementation of KAMTERN on the basis of the new internal regulation One of the main recommendations of the Court's reform process was the Court's use of the possibility for the Court to adopt certain categories of reports and opinions of the chambers referred to in Article 287 (4) of the Treaty, while respecting the principle of collegiality.
Following the approval by the Council of the necessary amendments to the Court's Rules of Procedure by the Council on 1 June 2010, the Council established chambers composed of the members of the Court of Justice and adopting special reports, special annual reports and opinions on draft legislative acts; earlier, all these reports and opinions were adopted by the College as a whole and continue to take place in the case of annual reports on the EU budget and the EDF.
Although most of the Court's reports are now adopted by the Chambers, the Chambers are given the opportunity to submit their documents to the Court for approval.
All members may attend meetings of chambers to which they do not belong without the right to vote.
Members of the Court
28 DATA ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COURT In 2010, since 2008, the Court has gradually developed a set of key performance indicators (ZLI) to inform the management of the progress made in achieving the objectives of 2009-2012; to assist the decision-making process; to provide information on the performance of the addressees of the Court.
Since, for the first time, the compilation of all indicators is available this year, this is the reference year for future progress assessments. The Court is very pleased with the results in 2010 of key performance indicators, in particular in terms of the quality and impact of its work.
More importantly, indicators clearly identify areas where progress needs to be made and areas where problems need to be addressed in order to achieve better results in the future.
29 The quality and impact of the Court's work shall be assessed by the Court on the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of evaluations sent by the beneficiaries and reviews carried out by the experts and on recommendations.
Assessment of the addressees The Court asked the main addressees of its reports (the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgets of the Council) and the main bodies (mainly European Commission staff) to assess the quality and impact of the annual reports published in 2009 (the general budget and the EDF) and the special reports.
The assessment should be based on a five-stage scale (1 very bad, 2 bad, 3 properly, 4 good, 5 very good).
2010 A thorough assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by the main partner 4.2 ≥4 The assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the audited entity The result is that the main sectors of the Court's reports have considered them to be good and good on average.
The Court is trying to maintain or even improve this level.
Reviews carried out by experts Two external bodies reviewed the content and presentation of the sample of the Court's reports published in 2009 and 2010. The verifiers assessed the eight special reports and the annual report on the general budget and the EDF for both years and assessed the quality of the various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale to a large extent...
2010 Objective 3.0 ≥ 3.7 ≥4 reviews of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by external experts The result shows that the auditors assess the quality of the Court's reports for the satisfaction of the Court's quality and the satisfaction of the quality of the Court's reports and that they assess the quality of the Court's reports for the satisfaction of the Court of Justice's quality of the reports and the quality of the reports of the Court's reports by the Court of Justice for the satisfaction of the Court's experts and that they assess the quality and quality of the reports and the quality of the reports to the satisfaction of the Court's satisfaction and the quality of the quality of the reports and to the quality of the reports by the Court's reports and to the quality of the reports and to the content and presentation of the content of the results of those results.
These reviews have provided valuable information and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports.
30 Follow-up of the recommendations The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations to improve financial management; in order to amend the Court's recommendations, the Court's recommendations must first be adopted and subsequently implemented by the audited entities; this indicator is based on recommendations published in 2009, i.e. in the latest available, annual and special reports.
In 2010, the objective of 90% ≥ 90% of the audit recommendations adopted by the audited entity the Court seeks to maintain or even improve this high level of acceptance in its recommendations.
In 2010, the Court established a system for monitoring the implementation of the recommendations by the audited bodies.
In the coming years, this system is intended to serve as a basis for a further indicator of the level of practical implementation of the recommendations and to improve them.
In addition, the Court will provide valuable information to improve the quality of its recommendations and thus to improve their acceptance among the authorities which it has audited.
31 The efficiency and effectiveness of the use of resources The Court shall assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the use of resources, depending on the extent to which it is in a timely position to report and audit reports, to meet its financial management commitments and to ensure the well-being and well-being of its staff.
For the purposes of the publication of the annual reports and of the detailed annual reports, the time limits laid down in the legislation should apply.
In the case of special reports for which there is no publication date specified in the legislation, the time limit within which the decision is to be adopted shall be deemed to be the time limit.
2010 The target of the number of reports adopted compared with the number of reports planned 90 % 100% of the percentage of the reports adopted at 80 % 100% Overall, in 2010 the Court did not achieve the objective.
In 2010, the Court adopted less reports than planned and the results were comparable with the results of the previous year (91% in 2009), and in 2010, although the percentage of the reports adopted in time increased (80% in 2009 compared with 67% in 2009), although further improvements were needed in 2010.
While all annual reports and all special annual reports have been adopted and published in accordance with the timetable, only three special reports have been adopted in accordance with the plan and published in accordance with the timetable.
Six special reports were delayed until 2011.
The Court seeks to achieve the objectives by taking further steps by the end of 2012 to improve the management of the procedures for special reports.
2010 The target percentage of audit messages by 2012 54 % of 80 % by 2012 The results achieved in 2010 are not yet at the required level, but significant progress has been made in the last two years (43 % in 2009 and 27% in 2008).
The Court will continue its efforts to achieve this objective.The Court's external evaluation of its financial management aims to obtain a full opinion from an independent auditor on the financial statements and the use of resources, and from the European Parliament, on the basis of the Council's positive opinion on discharge.
2010 Objective Yes Yes Unlimited opinion of independent auditor and discharge
Vocational training According to guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court seeks to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training.
2010 The target average number of training days per person 5.7 days ≥ 5 days 33 In 2010 the required level of achievement was achieved, i.e. an improvement compared to 2009 (average of 4 days).
The level of employee satisfaction As part of the internal employee satisfaction survey carried out in 2009, 86% of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with the work, of which the level of employee satisfaction was 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4, of which each value above 2,5 indicates the general satisfaction of the staff, and the Court seeks to maintain or improve this result when a similar survey is carried out at the end of 2012.
34 CONTROL SUPPORT The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its specialised services, which provide technical and logical technical knowledge enabling the Court to recruit, maintain and motivate its staff and to develop professional skills, to disseminate audit results in all the official languages of the EU, to make the best use of information technology, to manage the budget and to maintain infrastructure, to make audit visits to all countries where EU funds are transferred.
The Court's staff at 31 December 2010 was 889 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 557 people work at the control chambers (including 123 members' offices), 151 in the temporary translation Directorate (including 151), 157 in the administrative services and 24 in the President's services. In 2010 in order to achieve optimal use of resources, the possibility to increase the efficiency of all activities was re-examined and implemented by simplifying procedures and rationalising services.
As far as possible, the jobs released as a result of increased productivity outside the control area were transferred to the control services, which increased the number of posts used for control tasks by 6% and which will continue in 2011.
Division of the Court's posts as at 31 December 2008 2010 of the Audit Chamber 501 525 557 Translation 163 163 151 Support 173 171 157 Services of the President 20 21 24 Total 857 880 889
35 Women Men The following graph shows the percentage of men and women responsible as of 31 December 2010 and, like other EU institutions, the Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities within the framework of staff and recruitment policies.
20 of the 67 directors and heads of departments (30%) are women, which means a steady increase compared to previous years.
However, most of them work in the Translation Directorate in a footnote, in which they mostly work in t in t h h a in h in h in h in h in h in h h in t in h in h h in h in h in h in h a h in t h h in h h in h in a h h in h in h a h in a h in a t t h in h in a t h in h t h in h in h a t in h a t h in a t h in h a t h a t h h a t h h in a t h in h h in h a t h a t h a t h in t h a t h a t h h h in a h a t h in a t h a h a t h a t h a t h h in h a t h a t h a t h h h a h a t h a t h a t h h a t t h a h a t h a t h a h t h a h a h a h a h h a t t h a t h a h a t h a t h in h in h h a h a h a h h a h t h a h in h a t h a t h a t h h a h a t h a h h a t h h a t h h a t h in t t h h h a t h a h a t in a h h a h a h a h a h h t t a t h a h h t a h h t a t h a h a h a t h h h h h a h h a h a t h h a t h a h a t h a h a t h h a h a t h a h h a h a h a h h h a t t a h a t h a h t h a h a t a h h a t t h a h a t h a h h a h a t h a h a h a h a h h a t h h a h h h a t h a h h t h h a h a h a t h a h a h a t h a h h h a h h a h a t a t h a t h a t h a h a h a t t h h a h h a h a h a h a h h a h h h a t a h h h a t h a
2001 2010 54% 46% 50% 50%
36 Assistants 36 Secretaries (functional group AST) Assistants (functional group AD) (functional group AD) Men Women 2009 2010 2010 Age profile 2009 2010 Men Women 27 %73 %63 %37 %31 %Directors and Directors of Unit 69 %62 %38 % Women Increases percentage of women at AD level due to new recruitments.
After the last wave of employment, 45% of workers are women in grade AD5-AD8.
74% 26 % 70 % 30% 30% The employee's age profile of 31 December 2010 shows that 62% of the Court's employees are 44 years of age or younger. The age of 20-24 0% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 24 of the 67 directors and heads of departments are 55 or more years old.
4% 18% 20% 20% 15% 12% 7% 4%
37 Vocational training The controller's profession requires continuous training in order to keep up with new changes and new skills.
In 2010, efforts were made to implement the staff change plan adopted by the Secretary-General, which in 2011 provided for the transfer of posts and staff from translation services to the control services. In 2010, on the basis of the training plan for 2008-2011 and the training paths agreed in 2009, the vocational training unit in the field of vocational training in 2010 made changes to the content of the training, and in 2010 developed new training courses, in line with the priorities adopted by the Court.
Furthermore, the Translation Directorate...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Translation Directorate also supported the INTOSAI working groups and addressed other specific needs related to the Court's activities.
Work on the Artemis project to improve the function of this important IT application for translators continued in 2010 and the Translation Directorate of the Court actively participated in the work of interinstitutional and international specialised bodies.
38 IT Technologies (IT) play a key role in achieving the overall objectives of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy. In 2010, the following changes were noted: • the creation of a cooperation platform, in line with the 2010-2012 strategic IT plan, to support the exchange of knowledge, in particular in the field of control; • further efforts to optimise and simplify internal procedures through electronic working processes to increase efficiency and efficiency; • the management and infrastructure of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services; to support all activities of the Court, the Directorate for Finance and Support Services. In order to ensure the effective, effective and adequate support of the Court's auditors and to ensure the necessary internal and accounting control mechanisms to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2010, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve its effectiveness and effectiveness to release resources for the transfer to the control services. • Use of smartphones and laptop drills to enable checks to be carried out efficiently anywhere and at any time, including the Court's emergency action plan.
In 2010, by agreement with the budgetary authorities on the financing of building K3 as a result of the adoption of an agreement with the budgetary authorities, an effort was made to implement the public contracts for construction and ancillary services, as well as to publish them by the project manager.
A significant part of the contracts for the project were awarded during the year, while the time and budget framework for the construction project were respected and within the time limit set for the end of 2012.
39 Audit visits During the Court's audit work, auditors must go to the Member States and other beneficiaries of EU funds and to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations.
Inspection survey 2010 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Visits usually take place at central and local level, which participate in the approval, management and payment of EU funds and at the level of their final recipients.
In the EU, controls are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities in the visited Member State, which provide useful logistical and practical support.
52 38 32 30 26 23 15141312111010 9 7 655554333211111111111111111 France Germany United Kingdom Italy Spain Netherlands Sweden Greece Denmark Luxembourg Hungary Poland Ireland Austria Romania Belgium Slovenia Slovakia Czech Republic Lithuania Bulgaria Cyprus Finland Latvia Estonia Malta Croatia Ethiopia Mali Rwanda Bangladesh Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Burkina Faso Dominican Republic Ghana Israel UNMIK Malawi Nepal Norway South Africa Sudan Switzerland Uganda Ukraine USA (UN)
40 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The European Court of Auditors is financed from the general budget of the European Union, which accounts for around 0,1% of the total EU budget and less than 2% of the total administrative expenditure.
Implementation of the 2010 budget Title 1: Members and staff of the institutions Final appropriations Financial year 2010 Use of appropriations in % for commitments/allocations) Payments (in EUR 1000) 10. Members of institutions 13 364 12 980 98% 12 687 12 for officials and temporary staff 94 245 87 459 93% 87 104 14 for external staff and services 4 604 3 590 78 % 3 567 6 10 for 464 4 for external staff 3 567 231 94% 2 775 416 316, 2 316, 4 2 for staff and staff of the institution 2 867 1 887 66 % 1 435 Title 1 in total 118 524 10 1 147 92 107 568 Title 2: buildings, equipment and various operating expenditure 20 in buildings 25 for conferences and conferences 27 in.
41 In 2010, the total budget available was 93%.
42 The 2011 budget fell by 2.44% compared to 2010, mainly due to the reduction in the budget allocated to the new Court building (K3). The construction costs of the K3 building are estimated at EUR 79 million to be financed over the next five years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 3 million in 2012 and 2013.
Budget 2011 2010 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 no of the institution 12 930 13 364 (in EUR thousand) 12 not in 2010 Officials and temporary staff 14 no.
AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Court's internal audit service should assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives through a systematic, methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures, and on the basis of assessments of the effectiveness of the Court's internal control.
In 2010, the Court's internal audit services focused primarily on the implementation of the recommendations of previous years, the review of the Court's ex ante audit system, the audit of the implementation of the Court's SOS II/SAP and on the compatibility of the video monitoring system with data protection rules and requirements.
In 2009, the internal audit services of the Court were checked and certified in accordance with the international standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The auditor's opinion on the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2009 was published in October 20107.
The Commission also considers that the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the Commission considers that there are reasonable grounds for believing that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the aid is compatible with the internal market to be compatible with the internal market, that the aid is compatible with the internal market, and that the aid is compatible with the internal market, and that the aid is compatible with the internal market, and that it is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market, and that it is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market with the internal market, and that it is compatible with the internal market, and that it is compatible with the internal market, with the internal market and with the internal market and with the internal market and with the internal market, and with the internal market, the internal market, with the internal market, internal market, internal market and with the internal market, is compatible with the internal market and with the internal market.
The 44th customer not using the insolvent audit of the budget for the financial year 2009... the financial year 2009 for the financial year:...a. from our conviction, the annual accounts shall provide a true and fair view of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2009 and the financial situation and cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of the Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the Court of Auditors.... ON THE CONTRIBUTION. ON CONTROL I: not in our actions as described in this report, we have not come into the situation in which, in all the relevant aspects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria, (i) the financial resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes and (b) the audit procedures in place do not ensure that financial transactions have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
I, the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate and I declare with sufficient certainty that: • the appropriations for the actions described in this report have been used for the purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management; • the control activities are necessary to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and to deal appropriately with allegations of fraud or fraud and that they are based on an assessment signed and on information at its disposal, such as the results of the ex post control, the internal auditor's report and the report of the independent auditor of the previous financial years; and the undersigned confirm that it does not have any information that could harm the institution's interests.
The I-IV control rooms cover various areas of revenue and expenditure, while the fifth cell, the CEAD, is responsible for horizontal issues.
Each member shall be responsible for specific tasks, in particular in the field of control, and shall submit proposals for control and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible, to the Chamber and to the Court.
Members shall be assisted by the Cabinet staff and a team of auditors appointed for the examination tasks.
ISSN 1684-0666 2011 DE annual report on the activities of the European Court of Auditors
Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union is a free phone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Some mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or these calls may be billed.
More information on the European Union is available on the Europa website (http://europa.eu).
Cataloguing data can be found at the end of this publication.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2012 ISBN 978-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693 © European Union, 2012 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium Printed on WHITE CHLORINE-non-CHLORINE PAPER (ECF)
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2011
The European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the control of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU controller, it contributes to the improvement of EU financial management and, at the same time, it is an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
The independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is characterised by its integrity and impartiality, recognised as professional as well as as its high quality and impact of its work, which provides valuable assistance to its addressees to improve the EU's financial management.
Incompatibility, Integrity and Inconclusiveness PROFESSIONALITY MORE MORE EXTERNAL VALUE AND EFFIciency Independence, honesty and impartiality for institutions, its members and employees.
Unbiased examination of the views of the stakeholders but rejecting any form of interference by means of instructions or external pressures.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
contribute to the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level.
preparing appropriate and timely high quality reports, based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the needs of the recipients and containing relevant and constructive comments.
contribute to the effective improvement of EU governance and contribute to increasing responsibility for the management of EU funds.
Promoting a spirit of cooperation through effective communication.
increase efficiency in all aspects of his work.
3 CONTENTS Page 4 CONTENTS OF THE PRESIDENT 7 2011 FOR THE SUBMISSION 9 OUR ACTIONS 9 Audit reports and opinions 23 Cooperation with other MEMBERS 28 Other actions 31 OUR MANAGEMENT 31 Implementation of the Strategy 2009-2012 33 Measuring data on the results of the Court's audit in 2011 37 Support for audit actions 43 Financial information 46 Audit and accountability
4 Welcome to the annual report on the European Court of Auditors' activities for 2011.
In 2011, the economic and financial crisis led to a significant development of economic governance in the EU, which has a significant impact on the use of public funds in the future.
In this context, the Court published a document in May showing the impact of the measures taken in response to the financial and economic crisis on accountability, transparency and financial control.
Later in the year, the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Authorities (ORCB) of the EU Member States and the European Court of Auditors called on EU decision-makers to ensure that the principles of accountability, transparency and public control are properly respected in terms of the use of public funds.
In particular, the euro area ORKB requested the introduction of appropriate provisions for the public external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
This led to a decision on the establishment of the audit committee of the stability mechanism to which the member proposed by the Court will join.
In 2011, the results of our key performance indicators are also encouraging, especially as regards the monitoring of recommendations adopted by our units, as well as the assessment of our monitoring activities by the addressees and external experts.
We have managed to increase our performance with regard to the number of audit reports and opinions adopted in 2011, but we have failed to achieve ambitious targets for timely reporting.
Our annual reports now contained even more detailed information and a new chapter on the follow-up issues, as well as 42 annual reports and 16 special reports, together with seven opinions and a descriptive document.
The scope of the audit powers of the institutions in respect of the revenue and expenditure of the Union, in particular in respect of VAT-based own resources in the Member States, was confirmed by the European Court of Justice in November 2011.
Since 2012, we will be able to inform you of the extent to which our recommendations will be implemented in practice.
Our methods of economic control will also be peer reviewed in order to further improve the process of preparing special reports.
In 2011, we published ethical guidelines to further strengthen the Court's audit management framework and to modify the audit strategies and guidelines of the Court's audit to improve the audit and reporting process.
In addition, we will launch a new investigation into employee satisfaction in 2012.
With the future in mind, in 2012 we will complete the preparation of our strategy for 2013-2017.
Some of the main challenges are already evident: the EU regulatory framework will continue to develop and we must continue to ensure that the principles of accountability, transparency and public financial control are properly respected.
The need to ensure a high quality and timely guarantee of the use of EU funds is constantly increasing and we need to develop our audits and reports accordingly.
As the EU is constantly changing, we, too, will try to make the best of our audit experience to help decision-makers improve financial management.
Strengthening the EU's financial responsibility is one of the objectives that we have in common with other actors and we will seek to combine our efforts through strategic partnerships.
Finally, like other EU institutions and bodies, we need to be prepared to be less prepared to achieve the objective of improving the efficiency of our organisation.
These challenges will depend to a large extent on the efforts of all the Court's staff.
The development of excellence of our employees in our institutions is for us and remains for us an important value.
From the point of view of professionalism, commitment and past performance of our employees, I am convinced that the Court will also be able to achieve these future objectives.
Vítor Manuel da Silva CALDEIRA President 5
7 2011 FOR OUR ACTIONS FOR OUR Annual Reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010, including even more detailed information on 42 annual reports on the various EU agencies, decentralised bodies and agencies for the financial year 2010 by 16 specific reports on the various budget areas and management issues of 7 opinions, including on the modernisation of the Commission's procurement policy and legislative proposal on the rules on cohesion expenditure after 2013 on the document on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public responsibility and control in the EU, and on the Court's role in the management of the budget of UNSER MANAGER, continue to encourage the results of our key performance indicators, in particular on the quality and impact of our work on the adoption of ethical guidelines to further strengthen the framework for the management of audits.
Number of reports and opinions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Annual reports (general budget of the EU and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 29 29 37 40 42 Special reports 9 12 18 14 16 Opinions and other statements 9 5 1 6 8 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in 22 official EU languages.
This led to the publication of the 2010 annual report on 10 November 2011, including the 17th Statement of Assurance (DAS).
The 2010 Annual Report has introduced some changes to improve clarity and clarity of information.
These will include the recasting of thematic groups (and the corresponding annual chapters) the Court groups expenditure, the publication of estimated levels of error by policy area (see below), greater attention to recommendations to improve financial management and to a new chapter on results.
For the first time, the Court published the estimated error rates for both the EU budget as a whole and for the various thematic groups.
Error levels shall be determined by extrapolating the quantifiable errors found in the transaction trials examined.
The Court compares the estimated error rate with the materiality threshold of 2% to determine whether the error is material, taking into account further evidence that the error is material.
The error rate is not an indicator of fraud, but reflects the Court's estimates of an infringement of the rules on expenditure.
This includes breaches of public procurement rules, ineligible or miscalculated costs, ineligible or miscalculated costs of projects co-financed by the EU, or unnecessary information on areas provided by farmers.
The 2010 Annual Report provides the following main information: the Annual Financial Report for the financial year 2010 is properly presented in the financial position of the European Union and the results of its transactions and cash flows for the financial year 2010.
On the other hand, the payments underlying this financial statement are largely affected by error; the estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole is 3.7%.
The control systems were partly effective in ensuring the regularity of payments as a whole. the error rate estimated by the Court in cohesion, energy and transport expenditure (the most defective expenditure area in the EU) was 7.7% higher than in 2009 by the error rate in other expenditure areas in the EU was relatively stable.
In the policy group Agriculture and natural resources, the estimated error rate was 2.3 %, i.e. above the materiality threshold.
However, direct payments to farmers have shown no significant errors. o Percentage of pre-financing. no.. within the EU budget has increased significantly.
Accounting and supervisory rules have not been adequately adapted. o When planning EU spending programmes, the Commission and the Member States should seek to define concrete, measurable, achievable, relevant and timely SMART targets, and to identify and reduce the risks that may arise during implementation.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND 2010 In its annual report on the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010 (published on 10 November 2011), the Court concluded that the financial statements of the EDF for 2010 constitute essentially the financial situation of the EDF and the results of its operations and cash flows, in accordance with the Financial Regulation.
The revenue of the EDF shall not contain material errors.
The EDF's commitments were legal and correct, regardless of the non-quantifiable errors observed in the field of public procurement.
However, EDF payments for projects were largely affected by error; the estimated error rate is 3.4%.
The error detected concerned non-compliance with eligibility conditions.
The Court has assessed that the control systems established under the EDF ensure that all payments are to a limited extent correct.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE EU AGENCIES, DECENTRAL AUTHORITIES AND OTHER AUTHORITIES FOR THE DAY 2010 The Court published special annual reports for the financial year 2010 for all 42 agencies, decentralised agencies (e.g. joint undertakings) and other EU agencies (in particular the effectiveness of the management of the European Central Bank).
The Court delivered an unqualified opinion with respect to all bodies that were subject to scrutiny, with the exception of the European GNSS Agency, since certain properties were not included in the accounts and the ENIAC Joint Undertaking was not included in the accounts.
EU agencies and decentralised bodies have been set up by the EU legislator to carry out specific tasks.
Each agency shall have a mandate, a management, a director, a staff and a budget.
Agencies operate in many areas such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
11 President Caldeira, during the presentation of the 2010 Annual Report at the plenary session of the European Parliament
12 SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2011 In addition to its annual reports, the Court shall publish, during the year, special reports containing the results of the economic control and compliance with the Court's control rules in each budgetary area or in the management areas of its choice.
In selecting and selecting audit tasks, the Court seeks to achieve the maximum impact and to make the best use of its resources.
When selecting the subject matter, the Court takes into account the following factors: the risks associated with cost-effectiveness or compliance with legal standards in the area of income or expenditure; the level of income or expenditure in the area; the time elapsed since any prior evaluation; possible changes in the relevant legal framework; the political and public interest.
In 2011, the Court adopted 16 special reports on a number of issues, which means an increase compared to the 14 special reports adopted in 2010.
The special reports are summarised below in the relevant headings of the financial framework in the EU's annual budget in the lean budget.
Special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu on a full scale or available in EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 13 Sustainable economic growth focuses on economic growth and employment and covers two issues: competitiveness includes promoting research and technological development, the creation of European networks, education and training, promoting competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social agenda and decommissioning of nuclear facilities.
EU expenditure on growth and employment for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2 % of the total, of which almost two thirds are R &amp; D. Cohesion for growth and employment mainly concerns cohesion policy implemented in the form of specific actions, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and the European Regional Development Fund.
The Commission and the Member States shall allocate resources for shared management measures.
The EU budget for cohesion for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 344.4 billion (35.7% of the total EU budget).
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the effectiveness of the SME Guarantee Facility (Special Report No 4/2011) on the design, planning, management and implementation of related operations.
The SME Guarantee Facility (SMEG) is a financial instrument managed by the European Investment Fund on behalf of the European Commission, which provides financial intermediaries with guarantees or reimbursements of loans granted to SMEs by financial institutions with a view to increasing the availability of debt financing. on The effectiveness of tourism projects co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (EFERE) (Special Report No 6/2011) taking into account the expected results, their sustainability, European added value and the design of projects.
The evaluation was based on a wide-ranging study of projects in the new Member States and 26 regions.
Between 2000-2006, EUR 4.6 billion was allocated to in-kind investments in tourism projects and projects are selected and managed by managing authorities in the Member States.
14 on The effectiveness of e-government projects financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report No 9/2011), with particular reference to the 2000-2006 programming period and four Member States: Spain, France, Italy and Poland.
The audit assessed whether the co-financed projects were selected on the basis of specific needs, whether they were carried out in accordance with the plan, and whether they were adequate and sustainable.
This appropriation is intended to cover support for the information society of EUR 6,7 billion for the development of new secure technologies, the development of infrastructure and the development of broadband networks. on the effectiveness of State aid management by the Commission (Special Report No 15/2011).
The audit examined whether the procedures and systems ensured that the Commission would consider all relevant State aid cases, that cases were dealt with effectively and dealt with within the time limits and that the Commission would be able to monitor the effects of the State aid control.
The Commission is responsible for ensuring that the State aid granted by the Member States is compatible with the internal market of the European Union.
Member States must notify State aid measures to the Commission and request the Commission's approval before granting State aid. for the implementation of EU financial assistance for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia (Special Report No 16/2011) to assess whether the decommissioning programmes of nuclear power plants have been adapted to the demand, whether they have been implemented in accordance with the plan and whether the structures for responsible management and accountability have been built in such a way as to ensure the effective use of EU funds.
Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia committed to early closure and then to closure of the eight nuclear reactors, which cannot be re-equipped, in the framework of the accession negotiations.
Due to its exceptional burdens, the EU has committed €2.9 billion to three national programmes in the period 1999-2013.
The European Union has a strong political responsibility in agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 is EUR 413.1 billion, i.e. 42.3% of the total budget.
Three quarters of the expenditure concern direct payments to farmers and support to the agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EFG) is the most identical pillar of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
More than one fifth of the expenditure comes from EU rural development support financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second pillar of the CAP.
Agriculture and rural development shall be managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
The Court adopted the following special reports on the subject in 2011: on the Single Payment Scheme under the common agricultural policy (Special Report No 5/2011) More... See the box: The entry into force of the budget implementation control... on How the project and management of agri-environment measures are supported? (Special Report No 7/2011). (Special Report No 7/2011).
The report assesses whether agri-environment policy is shaped and supervised in such a way as to bring significant environmental benefits, whether it is sufficiently supported by the relevant guidelines and relevant aid amounts, and whether the management of agri-environment policy takes account of specific environmental needs.
The aim of agri-environmental policy is to meet the growing demand of the public for environmental services by encouraging farmers to introduce or maintain environmentally compatible production processes.
This area is subject to joint management by the Commission and the Member States. to recover undue payments under the common agricultural policy (Special Report No 8/2011) in order to assess the effectiveness of recovery systems for identified claims established and managed by the Member States.
This verification examined whether Member States correctly register and process claims, whether actions taken by Member States to recover certain unduly paid payments are successful, whether Member States are taking appropriate actions to recover irrecoverable claims, and whether the Commission's supervision and supervision are effective.
The European Union spends around EUR 55 billion annually on agriculture and rural development, and part of the funding is wrongly paid on account of incorrect or incorrect proposals15.
16 on The effectiveness of the School Milk and School Fruit Schemes to assess whether EU aid has a direct impact on the consumption of the beneficiaries and whether they are able to revive the way they are able to raise and influence future eating habits.
The aim of these EU programmes is to encourage children to eat healthy food through the consumption of dairy products and fruit and vegetables and to contribute to improving the market conditions of these products.
The EU is currently spending EUR 180 million per year on these two programmes. on Is the geographical indication programme effective and managed? (Special Report No 11/2011).
This assessment assessed the reliability of the control system, the attractiveness of the system to producers, their visibility to consumers.
The purpose of the Union system of geographical indications is to protect the names of products for which the characteristics of the products relate and the geographical area from which they originate.
This programme creates economic opportunities for farmers and food producers and can have a positive impact on the rural economy in EU regions. on the effectiveness of EU action to adapt the fishing capacity of fishing fleets to the fishing opportunities in force (Special Report No 12/2011).
The audit examined whether there was a clear framework for reducing fleet capacity and whether specific measures had been specifically identified and implemented.
The Commission and Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Poland, Portugal and the United Kingdom carried out the inspection.
The objective of the EU Common Fisheries Policy is to promote sustainable fisheries by ensuring a balance between fish stocks and the fleet in order to prevent these stocks from being overfished.
Overcapacity of the fishing fleet has been a problem for many years that threatens both the sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fishing sector.
The European Fisheries Fund has EUR 4.3 billion for the programming period 2007-2013.
17 SUPERVISION OF THE HOLDING SYSTEM 5/2011 OF OPERATIONAL PAYMENT: SUPERVISIONS ON THE BETTER MANAGEMENT OF FINANSAMIR: The evaluation of sound financial management concerned sound financial management of payments under the single payment scheme which is currently used in 17 of the 27 EU Member States.
The expenditure related to this programme amounted to around €28,8 billion in 2009.
The introduction of the single payment scheme was one of the main elements of the 2003 reform of the EU's common agricultural policy.
The aim of this programme was to encourage farmers to respond better to market demand and to provide income support to them.
The reform has dissolved the link between support and production (implementation of the differences between production and production Implementation (implementation (implementation of resolution) Implementation) Supporting the differences between production and production (implementation) Supporting the differences between production and production (implementation)) As part of the reform, implementation (implementation (implementation) Implementation) of the reform (implementation) of the reform (implementation) As part of the reform (implementation) As part of the reform (implementation) Implementation) Implementation (Implementation) of the implementation (Implementation) last year.
Instead, farmers must have eligible agricultural land and payment entitlements.
Since 2006, the Court has carried out a number of checks on the procedures laid down by the Commission and the Member States to ensure the accuracy of payment entitlements and the accuracy of payments to farmers.
These checks covered all 17 Member States that applied the scheme and their results were taken into account in the 2006 and 2007 annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget.
On the basis of these results, the Court decided to carry out a performance check focusing on: the beneficiaries of the scheme, access to payments per farm and the definition of eligible areas; the contribution of the scheme to the objectives of income support to farmers and the maintenance of agricultural land in good condition in agriculture and the environment; the specific consequences of the application of the different models of application of the scheme.
Verification visits were carried out in 2009 and 2010 in the Commission and in France, Italy and the United Kingdom.
It was therefore concluded that the single payment scheme contributed to the two main objectives of the common agricultural policy: farmers were encouraged to respond better to market demand and that the incomes of the whole agricultural sector were supported.
However, in general, a number of questionable features have emerged during the implementation of the scheme, which relate to the definition of beneficiaries under this policy, the nature of eligible parcels and activities, the environmental impact of the scheme, the distribution of aid between the Member States and within the Member States, and the specific impact of the historical and regional model.
18 The Court recommends in its report that agricultural payments should be better granted to active farmers and that non-agricultural parcels and activities which do not contribute to increasing agricultural productivity or to maintaining the ecological value of land should be excluded from support.
The Court also recommends that the level of the single payment should take account of environmental costs and other externalities, and that the level of aid should be more balanced between farmers.
The calculation of farm payments should be based on current management conditions.
The audit was carried out by a multidisciplinary team consisting of eight controllers from Chamber I. The audit work provided additional information not only on the concept of unseparated payments but also on the impact of the transition from the previous production-related support system on the current system.
According to Sven Kolling's team leader, checking the various models and options existing under the single payment scheme to implement the scheme together with national and regional administrative strategies and their impact on the cost-effectiveness and effectiveness of the premium is a particular challenge.
Verification visits to final beneficiaries and on-the-spot checks on holdings have proved necessary to obtain evidence to support the findings and conclusions.
Many of the Court's recommendations are reflected in the Commission's proposals for the reform of the common agricultural policy after 2013 (at the time of the preparation of this report in the debate), including the definition of active farmers and agricultural activities in specific areas and the distribution of premium payments among beneficiaries, in reducing the number of models for the implementation of the single payment scheme and in taking better account of the environmental externalities in the calculation of the single payment.
Left-to-right audit team: (first row) Heike Walz, member of the Court of Justice Michel Cretin, Aurelia Petliza, (second row) Pietro Puricella, Dirk Pauwels, Sven Kolling, Sylvain Lehnhard
EU EUGlobal PARTNER 19 EU external relations action focuses on: increasing, increasing stability, security and prosperity in the neighbourhood, actively supporting sustainable development at international level, supporting global political governance and ensuring strategic and civil security.
The EU has committed EUR 55.9 billion to these objectives for 2007-2013, i.e. 5.7% of its planned expenditure.
The Commission shall manage expenditure in most cases directly through its central services or delegations.
Some support measures will also be managed jointly with international organisations.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the effect of defocusing the management of external assistance from the Commission's central services in its delegations to improve access to assistance?
(Special Report No 1/2011).
The analysis concerned the analysis of administrative procedures and their impact on the faster delivery and improvement of the quality of the aid and the provision of stable financial procedures.
The EU is the world's largest donor of development aid, with a large proportion of the aid (EUR 8.4 billion in 2009) being managed by the Commission in its management system, with a share of EU aid (EUR 8.4 billion in 2009) being managed from 2002 onwards, in which the EU's contribution to the United Nations in conflict affected countries (Special Report No 3/2011), with a particular focus on the projects in Afghanistan, Iraq and Sudan in 2006-2008, has been allocated to the Commission's external positions.
EuropeAid committed around €4 billion in 2005-2009 by UN organisations.
The EU may grant funds as the only donor or together with other donors, as a contribution to trust funds, without the allocation of funds to specific actions or objectives or as a contribution to the general budget of the UN organisation. on The effectiveness of EU aid to improve Croatia's capacity to manage aid after accession (Special Report No 14/2011) in order to assess the Commission's assessment of the planning of aid and to assess whether the planned results of projects funded by EU funds have been achieved.
The EU's pre-accession assistance aims to help candidate countries build administrative capacity to prepare them for the management of the more intensive EU assistance to which they will be eligible as Member States.
EU aid to Croatia amounts to EUR 150 million per year since 2007.
The budget of the European Union shall be financed mainly by own resources and other revenue.
the original amount of own resources.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Most of the EU's own resources (70%) come from gross national income-based own resources, which ensure that the budget is always balanced.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: on the Administration of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) (Special Report No 2/2011) in order to assess the actions taken to implement the recommendations of the Court's previous Special Report No 1/2005 on this matter.
The audit was based on the question whether OLAF had already transferred the priority of its activities to its investigative functions and whether its investigations were more effective, as the effectiveness of its investigative work had been demonstrated and whether the functions of the Supervisory Committee had been clarified.
OLAF's task is to combat fraud and other illegal activities to the detriment of the EU budget.
The Authority is attached to the Commission, but is fully independent in the investigation, employing around 500 employees and its annual expenditure is around EUR 50 million.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special report: on the control of the customs procedure 42 can it prevent and disclose VAT evasion? (Special report No 13/2011) In this audit, the Court assessed whether there was a solid legal framework to combat VAT evasion under the customs procedure No 42.
It was checked in Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Austria, Slovenia and Sweden.
Customs procedure 42 is the mechanism used by an EU importer to obtain an exemption from VAT.
This procedure shall apply in the case of the transport of goods imported from outside the EU into another Member State.
In such cases, VAT is due in the Member State of destination.
OPINIONS AND OPINIONS ON POSITIONS OPINIONED IN 2011 Also in its opinions on proposals for new or revised legislative acts having financial impact, the Court contributes to improving the financial management of the EU.
These opinions shall be issued at the request of other EU institutions and used by the legislative bodies of the European Parliament and of the Council for their duties.
The Court may also issue own-initiative documents on other matters on its own initiative.
In 2011, the Court adopted seven opinions: o 1/2011: a proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund for the European External Action Service for the 2/2011: Financial rules of the Joint Undertaking "Clean Sky o 3/2011: Proposal for a Financial Regulation of the European Schools o4/2011: Commission Green Paper on the modernisation of European public procurement policy o 5/2011: a proposal for a Council Regulation (Euratom) on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the European Atomic Energy Community and on the dissemination of research results (2012-2013) o 66/2011: a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 on investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 The opinion 7/2011 concerned proposals for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down common rules on cohesion expenditure.
The contribution of the EU budget to the Europe 2020 objectives therefore largely depends on the cost-effective, efficient and efficient use of these resources.
This will also affect the credibility and legitimacy of EU action.
The EU continues to face the challenge of a system where the funds will be distributed before a contribution to the Member States and used as a disguised target will be able to achieve good results at a high level.
Effective monitoring and enforcement of responsibility by the Commission would help Member States to make effective use of these measures.
Opinions are available in all official EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu.
22. The Court's Court's composition: the assessment of today's financial and economic risks for the public and economic risks of today's public and financial risks for the EU's and for the Court's financial and financial crisis has had far-reaching consequences for the European Union.
In order to tackle the crisis, the EU has taken steps to ensure the long-term sustainability of the financial sector, to promote economic recovery and growth, to provide financial assistance to the Member States and to strengthen financial and economic coordination between Member States.
In addition, these measures have a decisive impact on the way public funds, i.e. EU taxpayers' money, are used in the EU.
Changes in the regulatory structure of the Union pose new challenges of accountability, transparency and public financial control.
The Court considers that the implementation of these new measures is in line with the principle that, whenever the use of public funds is concerned, appropriate rules of transparency, public responsibility and public financial control should be laid down.
Therefore, on 19 May 2011, the Court adopted a document on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public responsibility and financial control in the EU and on the role of the Court.
In that document, the Court concluded that, where possible, it would take into account in its audits the Commission's activities in the framework of the European Semester, the new supervisors, support mechanisms with EU budgetary guarantees and, where possible, support in the framework of the European Semester.
The Court considers that the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism should provide for the form of external financial control by public authorities.
Finally, the Court notes that, in many cases, the issues of accountability and transparency, in particular in the European Parliament and the Council, must be examined by the relevant EU institutions.
The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Authorities (ORCs) mainly with the following bodies: the Contact Committee (ORCs) of the EU Member States; the Network of Candidate States and potential Candidate Countries; international bodies for the control of public finances, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Offices (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
The CONTACT COMMITTEE The Court of Auditors and national audit authorities, in accordance with the EU Treaty, cooperate with full confidence and respect for their independence.
The Court is actively working with OLAF in the EU Member States within the Contact Committee.
The EU-ORKB President and the Court meet each year in the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee shall provide a forum for cooperation and exchange of knowledge and experience on the evaluation of EU funds and other EU issues.
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2011, the Court acted as the President of the Contact Committee, continued to provide administrative assistance and actively participated in various working groups and networks.
The 2011 annual meeting of the Contact Committee was held at the Court's premises on 13 and 14 October 2011.
The seminar focused on the impact of the European Semester and other recent developments in the EU's economic governance on the ORKB and the Court.
In this context, the issues of regulation and supervision of financial systems and financial institutions, state aid to the financial sector and the assessment of crisis management mechanisms in the euro area have been addressed.
The Contact Commission has adopted a statement addressed to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission, and to the parliaments and governments of the EU Member States.
In addition, the Contact Committee adopted a resolution to take account of the ORKB call of the euro area countries for appropriate external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
The declaration and resolution are available on the website of the Contact Commission (www.contactcommittee.eu).
23 Vice-President of the European Commission's 2011 European Commission Contact Commission: Commissioner Olli Rehn, Minister of Finance of Luxembourg Luc Room and Vice-President of the ECB Vítor Constâncio and Commissioner Vítor Caldeira (third from the left).
24 DECLARATION ON THE IMPACT OF THE EUROPEAN SESTER AND OTHER EU ECONOMIC COOPERATION ON THE MAJOR ACCOUNTING AUTHORITIES OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF ACCOUNT. IN THIS CONTACT COMMITTEE ON 14 OCTOBER 2011 DECLARATION ON THE COMMITTEE OF THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE SUBSEQUENT DECLARATIONS SUBJECT TO SUBJECT IN THIS MORE OCTOBER 2011 THE DECLARATIONS OF THE MAJOR THE MAJOR DECLARATION ON THE MEMBER STATE AND THE Basis FOR THE COOPERATION OF THE FUTURE THE CONTACT COMMITTEE is convinced that whenever there is a need to use public funds, the following principles should always be respected when it comes to the use of public funds: to ensure transparency in the form of reliable and timely information (including national statistical data) of the current or planned use of public funds, and the risks associated with them, to ensure adequate accountability.
In order to respond effectively to the economic and financial crisis and its effects on financial control within the public sector, as far as possible and within its mandate, and, where possible, to adapt the audit work to the new framework conditions, within and as far as possible within its mandate, the European Banking Supervision Committee and the Court of Auditors will examine its audit activities to the new framework conditions.
In some cases, this process has already started by introducing new and updated control tasks.
25 Further development of cooperation between the EU's OBRC and the Court Further development of the interrelationship between the EU's economic systems highlights the value of a common approach that can be achieved through close cooperation within the Contact Committee.
This includes, inter alia, joint learning from recent audit results and their impact as a way of collecting and exchanging knowledge; identifying and disseminating current best practices for audit of new (and existing) rules; identifying gaps in audits carried out by public authorities and possible new audit tasks; as is best done in this context; reflecting on the development of specific audit methods and techniques carried out by public authorities and on the tools and guidelines for their application; in order to develop these measures, the Contact Committee will use existing networks to control the Europe 2020 strategy and financial policy; it will conduct parallel or coordinated audits and will implement other cooperation activities.
Meeting of the Contact Committee in Luxembourg in 2011 on 13 and 14 October 2011
The Court actively participated in the activities of the open network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries1.
The organisational structure of the network shall be comparable to the structure of the contact committee and shall include regular meetings of the Chairpersons of the ORKB and liaison officers, working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits.
The main objective is to promote the use of control methods and procedures in line with EU international standards and best practices.
The meeting of the network presidents was held in Istanbul on 8 and 9 March 2011.
The Court of Auditors in Turkey and the European Court of Auditors held a joint Presidency during this meeting, which led to the adoption of the Istanbul Agreement, including a work programme for future actions to be carried out with the active support of the European Court of Auditors, the SIGMA and EU-ORKB representatives.
OTHER FORMS OF COOPERATION In 2011, the European Court of Auditors carried out a peer evaluation of the Norwegian Court of Auditors with the participation of the ORKB of Austria and Finland.
The report was published in June 2011.
The Court continued its active participation and participation in INTOSAI and EUROSAI activities.
Since 2004, when the Court has become a full member of INTOSAI, it has actively participated in the sub-committees on technical standards for the different types of examinations.
In 2011, following the approval of the XX Congress of Incosai, a comprehensive set of international standards (ISSAI) in November 2010, these subcommittees started implementing their new work plans, focusing on the harmonisation of the ISSAI framework, and on the dissemination of standards and guidelines.
In addition, the Court has contributed to the subcommittee to promote best practices and quality assurance through voluntary verifications and sub-committees to strengthen the skills of INTOSAI u members and the INTOSAI Environmental Assessment Working Group.
Since 2008, the Court has also chaired the INTOSAI Working Group on the audit and audit of assistance in the event of natural disasters.
The main objective of this working group is to draw up guidelines on the responsibility for civil protection assistance and to identify and disseminate best practices and focus on the activities of the actors ( multilateral actors, assistance organisations, governments, private controllers).
1 In February 2012, the network included five candidate countries (Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro and Turkey) and three potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia).
With regard to EUROSAI, the Court is now more involved as it will be a member of the Bureau for the next six years.
The Court actively participated in the 8th EUROSAI conference (from 30 May to 2 June 2011), which focused on the challenges, requirements and competences of public administration and the public role, the role of the European Securities and Markets Authority and the assessment of independent regulatory agencies by the Securities and Markets Authority.
A declaration was adopted which strengthened the independence of the OPK.
In December 2011, joint efforts by the Community and the INTOSAI regional working groups to strengthen the independence of OP.B. and the recognition of the Lima and Mexico Declaration reached a summit in the adoption of a resolution on the promotion of effective, accountable, effective and transparent public administration by strengthening the highest control bodies by the United Nations General Assembly 27.
On 15 November 2011, the Court of Justice delivered a judgment in Case C-539/09 Commission v Federal Republic of Germany on the control powers of the European Court of Auditors in the field of own resources accruing from VAT.
This is due to the refusal to grant the European Court of Auditors a refusal in 2006 to carry out checks on administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax in Germany, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003.
In preparing Special Report No 8/2007, the Court decided to carry out audits in eight Member States, including Germany.
Germany objected to the Court's right to carry out the audit.
The German Government pointed out that cooperation between the administrative authorities of the Member States referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 has no direct link with EU revenue, since value added tax should be distinguished from national tax and, therefore, with value added tax own resources.
The latter are determined according to a number of calculations and represent a relatively small proportion of the amounts collected by the Member States as value added tax.
The Court strongly rejected the argument of the German Government, which is based on the strict contrast between the VAT revenue of the Member States and the Union's own resources on value added tax.
In the light of the arguments put forward by the Commission, the European Parliament and the European Court of Auditors, the Court stressed the dependence of the VAT own resources on the revenue of the Member States on value added tax.
The Court of Justice confirmed that the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 on administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax included the establishment of mechanisms for cooperation between Member States in order to combat the recovery of value added tax more effectively and to collect value added tax more effectively.
This also affects the availability of own resources for VAT for the EU budget.
Where cooperation between national authorities is effective and compatible with the Regulation, it may contribute to the reduction of fraud and the effective collection of VAT in the Member States, and to the maintenance of VAT own resources at the level that has to be ensured by the various relevant EU legislation and thus to the maintenance of the total value of own resources.
The Court found that the Court of Auditors was entitled to carry out the planned audit in the context of administrative cooperation in the field of VAT since it referred to the EU revenue, in terms of legality and sound financial management, and was therefore directly linked to the powers conferred on the Court of Auditors under the Treaty.
In Case C-539/09, for the first time, the Court had to clearly define for the first time the scope of the Court's audit powers.
The Court of Justice ruling is valuable and encouraging as it clarifies and confirms the powers of the institutions as regards the control of the Member States.
In 2010, the Court awarded for the first time the award for public sector audit research work in order to establish contacts with universities and to promote the development of public financial control in Europe.
This first award was the commemoration of Jesús Lázaro Cuenc, former director of the Court, who, for many years, contributed to the development of methods and methods of control of the institution.
The winners of the Lázaro, Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo Awards were awarded the winners of the Vítor Caldeira Awards and the selection panel, which took place in Luxembourg on 5 July 2011 at the seat of the Court of Auditors.
Both winners presented their scientific speeches at the academic meeting: Anna Sara Belleil: the longest duration of the programme: the heavier duration of the programme: cicibiologia praciques managériales dans les politiques européennes.
José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo: jenjo: jn The control of public administration and the fight against corruption: Special reference to the Court of Audit and General Audit of the state administration corruption to the Court of Audit Jenjo.
29 The European Court of Auditors was deeply concerned about the premature death of Sarah Belleil on 30 November 2011 and wishes to appreciate the quality and importance of her work. The President of Caldeira and the winners of the Lázaro Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo prizes
31 OUR MANAGEMENT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIES FOR 2009 In recent years, the Court has launched an internal reform process.
This includes the development of its first strategy for the period 2009-20122 to achieve the following general objectives: to maximise the overall impact on audits; to increase efficiency through the optimal use of resources.
Many of the priority actions envisaged in the strategy have already been completed; the remaining actions will be published in 2012 in the 2th C.E.C.C. in 2011 in the 2011 C.E. in the 2009-2011 C.E. in the 2009-2011 C.C.E., which exceeded the objective of the annual reports of 12-15 C.C. on the reform of the EU budget; in 2009-2011 on average, in 2009-2011 on the 2009-2011 C.E., 16 special reports were published annually, which exceeded the objective of the annual reports of 12-15 C.E. on the reform of the EU budget; in 2009-2011 on the preparation of regular follow-up reports, including follow-up actions to be taken for the first time in 2012; including, for the review of the audit strategy and guidelines; to an increasing extent, by the transfer of support services, as part of the audit, in the context of an audit, the review of the current financial crisis and in the context of the current EU.
The Court has strengthened the audit management framework by adopting ethical guidelines based on the accounting and the INTOSAI Code of Conduct and the International Standard of Quality Control under ORB3.
In this context, the Court has set up a procedure to ensure, each year, sufficient assurance that its auditors meet the relevant ethical requirements.
Compliance with the values set out in the ethical guidelines, such as impartiality, objectivity, loyalty and professional secrecy, ensures that the Court's staff, in the public interest, act without external pressure and in the personal or financial interest.
The Court's professional framework promotes the reliability of the information provided by its addressees.
3 ISSAI 30 and ISSAI 40.
32 In 2011, work began on another strategy based on the successes of the current strategy, which ended in 2012.
The Court takes the opportunity to adapt to the developments in the EU and in the field of audit and to take into account the needs and expectations of its addressees.
Members of the European Court of Auditors
In 2008, the Court gradually... developed a set of key performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform the management of the progress made towards the 2009-2012 targets of supporting the decision-making process.
These indicators shall measure the key parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, with particular regard to the position of key beneficiaries and the effectiveness and effectiveness of its use of resources.
2011 is the second year in which all indicators were available.
The Court continues to find the results of its key performance indicators encouraging, in particular as regards the quality and impact of its audit work.
Moreover, indicators clearly identify areas where progress is needed, as well as issues that need to be addressed in order to achieve future productivity growth.
2010 4.2 4.0 ≥ 4.2 3.7 3.7 ≥ 3.7 ≥ 3.7 Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by the main objective of 2011. Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by individuals.The results show that the Court's main administrator considered these reports to be on average good.
In particular, the clarity and usefulness of the reports and the professionalism of the Court's auditors shall be assessed.
34 EXPERT CONTROLS Two external bodies reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports published in 2011.
The auditors assessed the four special reports and the annual reports on the general budget and the EDF for 2010.
They assessed the quality of the various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale to a large extent affected the spoon (1) to the highest quality to a narrow extent narrowly narrow extent of the thread (4).
2010 3,0 2,8 ≥ 3,0 Target level for 2011. Review of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by external experts Results show that verifiers consider the quality of the Court's reports to be satisfactory of what was established in 2011.
The reviews provided valuable information and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports.
CONVERSION OF RECOMMENDATION In its recommendations, the Court contributes to the improvement of financial management.
This indicator is based on the recommendations contained in the annual and special reports published in 2011.
In 2010, 90% 90% ≥ 90% of the 2011 target. The percentage of audit recommendations approved by the audit entity in 2011 started the systematic monitoring of the implementation of the recommendations by the control units.
From 2012 the Court will be able to inform the extent to which the recommendations are implemented in practice and how they will be improved.
The Court shall assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the use of resources on the basis of the possibility of reporting and control arrangements in good time, the fulfilment of its financial management obligations and the assurance of the well-being and expertise of its staff.
The Court seeks to adopt all audit reports within the time limits set by the Court.
Detailed deadlines for annual reports and special annual reports are laid down in law.
In the case of special reports for which the date of publication specified in the legislation is not available, the planned date of adoption shall be deemed to be the date of punctuality.
35 4 2010 90 % of the number of reports adopted at 80 % 2011 83 % 90 % 75 % 90 % Overall, in 2011 the Court did not fully achieve its objectives.
The very high target for the number of reports was not achieved, while the overarching target of 12-15 special reports per year exceeded and the result was higher than in 2010.
All annual reports, with the exception of the special report, have been adopted and published in accordance with the timetable.
4 The objectives of these indicators have been modified from 100 % (2008-2010) to 90 % to take account of unexpected developments.
ADDITIONAL AUDIT REALIZATION DECLARATIONS shall contain details of the specific inspection arrangements and shall be drawn up following inspection visits in the Member States or in the Commission.
The Court uses them to confirm the accuracy of its findings by the assessment bodies and the audit communications are therefore an important step in the audit process.
The Court has already stated that, in terms of timeliness, timeliness needs to be significantly improved and, therefore, the aim to be achieved by the end of 2012 is to build 80% of the audit messages within two months of the end of the audit.
2010 2011 Percentage of control notifications made at 54 % 58 % Objective 20114 The number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned Objective 2011 80 % by 2012. The Court has improved the timeliness of control notifications in 2011 but has not yet been achieved.
In the last three years, significant progress has been made (only 27% of control notifications were prepared in time in 2008) and the Court will continue to improve its performance.
36 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court seeks to obtain an independent auditor's opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources and the European Parliament on the basis of the Council's positive opinion.
General Education In line with the guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court seeks to ensure that examiners with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training (without language courses) are commissioned by the examiners.
WELCOMES STAFF During an internal interview on the satisfaction of the employees carried out in 2009, 86% of the Court's employees were generally satisfied with their work, with a total of 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4 and each value above 2.5 is the result of overall satisfaction.
The Court seeks to maintain or improve this outcome in the event of similar consultations in 2012.
ENCOURAGEMENT OF THE CONTROL ACTION The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support of its specialised services.
These services provide technical knowledge and logistics that enables the Court to recruit, maintain and motivate its staff and to develop their professional skills and disseminate the results of controls in all the official EU languages, to make the best use of information technology, to manage the budget and to maintain infrastructure, to carry out inspection visits to obtain evidence on the spot and on the spot in the countries where EU funds are collected and collected.
37 STAFF STAFF The most important capital of the Court is its employees.
At 31 December 2010, the Court's staff was 887 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of which 564 operate in the control chambers (including 123 seats in the member's office), 148 in the temporary translation office, 148 in the administrative support services, and 27 in the office of the chairman.
In 2011, with a view to making the best use of resources, the capacity to increase efficiency was re-examined and implemented in all services with a view to simplifying procedures.
Where possible, the posts exempted outside the scope of control have been transferred to the control service by increasing productivity, contributing to an increase of 12.6% in the number of posts registered since 2008.
Division of the Court's positions as at 31 December 2008 2011 2011 Audit 501 525 557 557 564 Translation 163 163 151 148 Administration 173 171 157 148 Services of the President 20 21 24 27 Total 857 880 889 887
38 EMPLOYMENT The Court's staff have a rich academic and professional environment and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's results.
The Court's recruitment policy complies with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
The general procedures for the selection of posts at the Court are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
Moreover, the Court establishes a policy of equal opportunity within its staff policy and in respect of employment, in respect of a limited number of men and women, the Court, like the other EU institutions, establishes a policy of equal opportunity within its staff policy.
Following the steady increase in women's participation over the years, the Court has achieved a balanced participation of women and men among its employees.
In 2011, the Court recruited 75 staff: 23 officials, 24 temporary staff and 28 contract staff.
In particular, the Court could employ new workers for the posts of auditors.
On 31 December 2011 25 posts were unattended not more than in 2010 (44).
Thus, for the first time, the job vacancy rate fell below 3%.
2001 2011 Men 54 % 50 % Women 46 % 50 % The following graph shows the level of participation of men and women in the distribution of responsibility as at 31 December 2011.
Of the 65 directors and heads of departments, 18 (28%) are women, reflecting the development in recent years.
Most of them are part of the work of the Department for Translation and Translation and of the Department for Translation and and Development in the Czech Republic, and in the Czech Republic, and in the Czech Republic, in the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Kingdom, Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Czech Republic, Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Czech Republic, Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Republic, the Republic, the Kingdom, Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Republic, the Kingdom, Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, and the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Republic of Kingdom, and the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, and the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, the Kingdom, Kingdom, The Kingdom, the Kingdom, The Kingdom, The Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, The Kingdom, The Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, The United Kingdom, the Kingdom, Kingdom, The
After the last recruitment waves, 45% of the workers are women in grades AD5-AD8.
ALTERSPROFIL The age profile of staff working on 31 December 2010 indicates that 60% of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger.
Ages 20-24 0.00% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 23 of 65 directors and heads of departments are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, in the next five to ten years, the next five to ten years will be a renewal in high management positions.
39 3.8% 16.3% 20.7% 19.2% 17.5% 11.5% 7.6% 3.4% EDUCATION DISTRIBUTION The profession of controller requires continuous training in order to keep up with new changes and new skills.
In 2011, the Court's staff averaged 9.3 days of vocational training.
Language courses accounted for 54% of the total number of training days (compared with 57% in 2010).
In addition to language courses, the auditors completed the 6.1 day of vocational training in 2011 and thus achieved an important objective of the institution.
In 2011, extended content of training activities was introduced and new courses were developed to adapt to control priorities.
The Court has also improved the system for the management of training activities.
TRANSLATION TRANSLATION is an important activity to support control, which enables the Court to carry out its mission and to achieve its communication objectives.
In 2011, the volume of translations was comparable to the 2010 performance.
More than 99% of translation services were provided on time.
In 2011, further posts and staff were transferred from the Translation Directorate to the Audit Service.
The Directorate for Translation...i.e. the Court also provided valuable linguistic support for mission controllers and the subsequent stages of the audit reports.
The Translation Directorate also assisted the Contact Committee, the INTOSAI Working Groups and provided other specific needs related to the Court's audit activities.
In addition, the Translation Directorate of the Court actively participated in interinstitutional and international bodies.
40 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology (IT) plays a key role in achieving the overall objectives of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy.
In 2011, the Court took the following actions: to increase investment in knowledge management by launching a new version of the development support instrument (designed in Art. Assistant2 W.A.) on the basis of the recently established cooperation platform; to actively pursue the improvement of internal processes through electronic actions in the field of business travel management and training; and electronic archiving of personal files in order to continuously increase effectiveness and effectiveness; to continuously support mobility through the use of smartphones and laptop computers and to launch the project in order to create an additional network in which it will also play a key role in simplifying electronic exchange with a number of the Court's partners (e.g. on the work carried out, the budgetary authority, the employees, suppliers).
These progress has been made while strengthening operational security and operational security in order to ensure the necessary availability and quality of all IT services provided by the Court.
MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE The Directorate for Finance and Support Services... is to provide the Court's auditors with the assistance in an effective, effective and proportionate manner in a timely manner and to ensure that the necessary funding, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In 2011, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and efficiency in order to release the appropriations for the transfer to the audit service.
In 2011, the agreement with the budgetary authorities (Parliament and Council) on the financing of building K3 for 2008 gave priority to the construction of the second building extending to the main building of the Court.
Construction work was completed in 2011 and the weather routine at the end of 2011.
Significant progress has been made in the area of interior design.
The time and budgetary framework of the construction project shall be respected.
The farm is due to take over the building at the end of 2012, and the removals will take place in the first quarter of 2013.
In 2009 and 2010, the Court concluded that the best way to achieve the safety objectives was the most cost-effective and cost-effective management of the risks of audit and security services provided internally.
In April 2011, this was done by replacing an external security service provider with a small team of contract staff.
The annual costs will be lower by more than €0.5 million in 2012 than in 2009.
THE OFFICE During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States, to other beneficiaries of EU funds, as well as to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations.
The purpose of these inspection visits is to obtain physical proof of inspection.
These visits usually apply to central and local authorities involved in the approval and management of EU funds and their payment as well as to final beneficiaries.
In the EU, inspection visits are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities in the Member State visited.
The audit teams shall normally consist of two to three auditors and the duration of the audit visit may be up to two weeks, depending on the type of examination and the distance.
In 2011, the Court carried out a total of 379 audit visits5 In the Member States and 36 non-EU Straffung j.j. with regard to audits with regard to annual and special annual reports and selected audit tasks in 2011 and 34 33 32 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 In 2011, the Court carried out 379 audit visits5 with regard to audits with regard to annual reports and special annual reports and with regard to selected audit tasks in Member States and 36 non-EU countries.
A similar number of audit visits were carried out by EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
5 This corresponds to the number of Member States and beneficiary countries to which verification visits have been carried out for each control task.
In 2010, this figure was 376.
30 41 25 19 19 17 Check-in visits in the EU 15 Total 343 12 12 11 11 11 11 Check-out visits outside the EU 10 10 Total 36 99 555 44322 3222211111111111111111111111111111111111111 Spain United Kingdom Germany Italy France Belgium Poland Portugal Greece Czech Republic Netherlands Austria Hungary Finland Ireland Romania Denmark Sweden Latvia Slovenia Slovenia Luxembourg Slovakia Bulgaria Malta Switzerland Serbia Burkina Faso Israel Malawi Tanzania Albania Barbados Benin Cameroon Chad Congo Croatia Austria Slovenia Turkey Nigeria Nigeria Nigeria Finland Senegal Tunisia Vietnam Zambia
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court shall be financed by the general budget of the EU.
Its budget represents around 0,1% of the total EU expenditure and less than 2% of the total administrative expenditure.
TOURISM TOURISM STRUCTURING WITH REGARD TO TOURISM STRUCTURING
44 In 2011, the total level of implementation of the available budget was 93%.
For Title 1 this indicator is 92% and in Chapter 16 (Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution) is the lowest (85%).
For Title 2, the average performance rate is 97%.
The amount of payments under Chapter 20 (building) depends on the construction work of the K3 building.
The third EUR 7 million financing tranche for this project is entered in the 2011 budget, which was allocated to the project and was partly paid in 2011.
The remaining part of the budget for building K3 was transferred to 2012 and intended for the financing of contracts awarded to construction companies by the project manager on behalf of the Court.
This appropriation will be used in accordance with the proposal submitted by the Court to the European Parliament and the Council in 2008.
The total cost of building K3 is estimated at EUR 79 million to be financed over the next five years: EUR 55 million in 2009; EUR 11 million in 2010; EUR 7 million in 2011; EUR 3 million in 2012 and 2013.
The 2012 budget decreased by 1.28% compared to 2011, mainly due to the reduction of the budget allocated to the construction of K3.
H a h a h a h a h h a h a h a h a h a a h a h a h a h h h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h h a h a h a a h a h a h a h a h a h a h h a a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h h a h a h a h a a h a h a h h a h a h a a h a h a a h a a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a a h a h a h a h a h a h a h h a h a h h a h h a h a h a h a a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a h a a h a h a a
46 INTERNAL CONTROL AND IMPLEMENTATION The internal audit body's task is to ensure independence and objectivity and to provide advisory services to increase and improve the added value of the Court's activities.
The Commission shall assist the Court in the achievement of the objectives of the institutions through a systematic and rigorous approach to the evaluation and the submission of recommendations in order to improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and management procedures.
In carrying out its task, the Internal Audit Office shall act in accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, the rules applicable to EU officials and the international standards of professional practice in the field of internal audit.
In 2009, the Court's internal audit services were assessed and certified in accordance with the international standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
THE COURT'S EXTERNAL AUDIT The annual accounts of the European Court of Auditors shall be audited by an independent auditor.
This is the main element of the Court's efforts to ensure that the Court applies to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the authorities that it is investigating.
In 2011, the Court's internal audit services presented reports on: the state of implementation of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy; the implementation of key performance indicators; the creation of a new K3 building of the Court; the use of a trust account for payments to eligible beneficiaries; the implementation of previous recommendations.
The internal audit service has fully supported the Court's independent auditor in his audit of the Court's certification of the Court's annual accounts and the effectiveness of its internal audit procedures.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee shall advise on internal audit matters and monitor the related internal control environment in the framework of the institution's risk management procedures.
In 2011, the Internal Audit and Audit Committee examined the results of the mid- and internal audit bodies' audits, the implementation of action plans affecting the internal control environment and the risks related to the institution's management.
The report of the Auditor of the Exchange PricewaterhouseCoopers SRL e Auditor's report for the financial year 2010 was published in September 20116.
The Court of Auditors' Audit Audit Audit Audit Audit of the Court of Auditors' Audit Audit of 2010 at the Audit Audit of the European Court of Auditors' Audit at the Audit Office of 25 June 2002 and of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 on Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the financial reporting of the European Union and laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the financial reporting of the European Union, and taking into account the abovementioned criteria.
48 DECLARATION OF POWERS I, the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and with sufficient assurance that the budget made available for the activities described in this report has been used for the purposes set out and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures put in place give the necessary guarantees for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts, and to ensure that they are used for the proper management of the charges and fraud.
This is sufficient certainty on the basis of the assessment of the signed and the information available to it, such as the results of the ex post audit, internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's opinions on the previous financial years.
Luxembourg, 8 March 2012 Mr Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary-General
The European Court of Auditors shall be an independent external audit body of the European Union established in Luxembourg.
The Court of Auditors shall act as a collegial body consisting of 27 members, each of which shall consist of one member of each Member State.
The members of the Council shall be appointed by the Council for a term of office of six years after consulting the European Parliament.
Members shall elect a chairman from among themselves for a period of three years, with the possibility of re-election also possible.
The Court shall be organised in accordance with the chambers to which the members are assigned.
The Chambers shall prepare reports and opinions for adoption by the Court.
The control chambers I-IV cover different areas of revenue and expenditure, while the fifth, the CEAD, is responsible for horizontal issues.
The Comoros shall be assisted by audit directors.
Since the revision of the Court's Rules of Procedure in 2010, certain categories of Court reports and opinions may be adopted by chambers instead of by the entire College of the Court.
The Management Committee shall meet under the chairmanship of the chairman and shall consist of the Chairman of the Chambers and the Secretary-General (responsible for the administrative services and assistance of the Court).
The Committee shall act as coordinator and prepare the Court's decisions on strategic planning and management of results and administrative issues.
Each member shall have the power to perform specific tasks, in particular in the field of control.
Members shall submit to Parliament proposals for controls and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible, to the Chamber and to the Court.
It shall be submitted to the European Parliament, the Council and the other interested parties by the rapporteur member following the adoption of the report.
Members shall be assisted by their cabinet members and a team of auditors appointed for the examination of 49 tasks.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2011 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2012 Annual Activity Report of the European Union 2012: 2012: approval by the Publications Office of the European Union for 2012: for the year: the European Court of Auditors: 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693
Where can I receive EU publications?Free publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • via EU delegations and delegations.
QJ-AA-12-001-DE-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu www.eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorseca ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9
ISSN 1684-0666 EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF Account 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON ACTIVITIES OF ISSN 1684-0666 OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF ISSN 1684-0666
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2013 ISBN 978-929241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 © European Union, 2013 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors 2012 Annual Activity Report
3 THE EUROPEAN COURT OF THE COURT OF AUDIT OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF AUDIT IN THE COURT OF INCLUSION OF THE COURT OF INCLUSION OF THE European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the control of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU auditor, it contributes to improving EU financial management, contributes to accountability and transparency and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
Integrity, INTEGRATION AND Integrity PROFESSIONALITY MORE EXTERNALITY AND EFFIITY Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of public sector financial control at EU and EU level worldwide.
producing adequate and timely high-quality reports, based on sound findings and evidence, taking due account of the issues requested, and the conclusion of important and direction-oriented reports.
contribute to the effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and contribute to increasing accountability in the management of EU funds.
Supporting the spirit of the team through effective communication.
5 TUEUE Page 6 INTERPOL-UNCLE 6 INTERPOL-UNCLE INTERPOL-UN Security Council Special Notice web link: https://www.interpol.int/en/notice/search/un/en/notice/search/en/notice/search/un/en/notice/search/en/en/notice/search/un/en/en/notice/search/un/en/notice/search/un/un/en/notice/search/search/en/search/un/un/en/search/en/un/un/notice/search/un/search/un/un/notice/search/un/un/un/search/un/un/en/en/en/en/en/notice/search/un/un/un/un/en/en/en/en/notice/en/un/en/en/search/un/en/en/en/notice/notice/en/search/un/un/un/notice/un/un/en/en-search/un/un/en/un/un/un/-notice/un/un/un/en/un/un/un/un/un-en/un/en-un/un/-un/en/un/en/un/un/un-search/un-search-search/un-un-search/-notice/un/un-un-search/un-un/un-un/un-notice/un-un-un-notice/-notice/-search/un/un-en-un-search/un-int-un/un-search/notice/un/un-un--un-notice/un-un/un/un-notice/un-un
In 2012, the Court focused on preparing the Union for the key challenges of financial management after 2013.
At the beginning of the year, the Court adopted an opinion on certain proposals for regulations on the common agricultural policy (CAP), which is the most popular EU policy.
The draft regulation was part of a package of legislative proposals for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
In 2012, it adopted a number of opinions and reports that the Court adopted and actively contributed to strengthening the new rules that would be subject to EU revenue and expenditure during that period.
Moreover, in 2012, the Court continued to closely monitor the impact of changes in the EU's economic governance on public responsibility and financial control.
This year, the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism entered into force and, at its first meeting, the audit committee of the new body, including the representative of the Court, took place.
In December 2012, the Council of the European Union adopted a position on the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism to ensure the supervision of euro area credit institutions and the Court presented its position to EU policy makers on public responsibility and financial control.
Many changes in the EU's economic governance and budget are due to the fact that better political results are needed with lower public resources whilst strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability.
Given its unique competences and views, on the one hand, and the experience on control, gained over 35 years, and based on the partnerships thus built, on the other hand, the Court has good experience to help the EU cope with these challenges.
On the basis of the achievements achieved in recent years, the Court aims to maximise the Court's contribution to improving the EU's reporting obligation in 2013-2017.
The farm celebrates 35 years of its existence.
Europe has changed significantly since the Court started working in 1977.
The structure of the Court and the way in which it is carried out reflect these changes.
With the accession of the new Member States, the transfer of competences to the Union and the creation of a number of posts at EU level, the scope of controls has been extended.
The Court also developed as an organ from nine members and 120 employees in 1977 to 27 members and almost 900 employees in 2012.
This increase enabled the farm to build professional, committed and experienced staff.
In 2012, this was the last year covered by the Court's 2009-2012 strategy.
During this period, the Court noted positive results.
As the annual activity report shows, the results have increased, external experts consider the quality of our reports to be good, and their main institutional addressees are those who consider them useful.
The level of acceptance of the Court's recommendations remains high and the Court's new monitoring report highlights the positive effects of these recommendations.
The Court can also point to an increase in administrative and translation productivity which could lead to the use at the end of the period of 40 additional staff in the field of control.
In order to achieve the 2013-2017 objectives, the Court will prioritise products to improve the EU's reporting obligations and extend and extend its partnerships, professionalism and efficiency.
In 2013, the international peer review team will examine the Court's performance check practice and will follow the results of the previous 2008 peer review procedure.
Other key actions to be taken in 2013 include improving the Court's reporting procedures and improving the use of our Common Knowledge Fund, our expertise and our expertise.
With these and other initiatives, the Court intends to help the EU to address the growing challenges of accountability and financial control in the coming years.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 7
8 2012 IN OUR ACTIONS on the Annual Reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2011, which highlighted the clarity and clarity of 50 specific annual reports on the various agencies, decentralised bodies and agencies of the EU for the financial year 2011.o 25 special reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues.o 9 opinions for the reform of the budget, such as the reform of the common agricultural policy and the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud concerning the financial interests of the European Union in criminal matters.o 9 Opinions on the contribution to the reform of the budget, such as the reform of the common agricultural policy and the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating financial fraud.o 9 Opinions on the contribution to the reform of the budget, such as the common agricultural policy and the European Parliament and Council directive on combating financial fraud.
OUR MANAGEMENT for the adoption of a new strategy for 2013-2017, which will guide the activities of the Court during this period, to maximise the value of the Court's contribution to the EU's public responsibility. o Our key performance indicators for the period 2008-2012 show an improvement of performance; for the first time they measure the share of our recommendations in the implementation. o Further development of staff policy and further relocation of posts in the audit service, by increasing the administrative and translation efficiency of the Court, have increased the Court's ability to perform its task. o Construction works in building K3. at the second elevation. at the Court's... o..., have been completed.
9 OUR CONTROL REPORT AND NOTES The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are the following: annual reports on financial reporting checks and audits on compliance with the rules on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund (EDF); and special annual reports on agencies, decentralised bodies and bodies of the EU are published separately; special annual reports which can be published at any time of the year, together with the results of selected audits on specific budget and management areas, which are mainly performance audits; opinions on draft legal acts which may affect financial management, declarations and position papers on other issues on the Court's own initiative.
Since 2008, the number of special annual reports and special reports of the Court has increased significantly.
The annual reports have also been further developed: more analytical information is currently available, more data presentation has been harmonised to facilitate comparison, both between areas and over time, and a new chapter on efficiency issues has been added.
A significant increase in the opinion results from the consultation of the Court on the comprehensive legislative proposals for the new financial framework (2014-2020).
Number of reports and opinions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Annual reports (general budget of the EU and of the EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised agencies 29 37 40 42 50 Special reports 12 18 14 16 25 Opinions and other statements 5 1 6 8 10 TOTAL 48 58 62 68 87 The full version of the reports and opinions is available on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in 22 official EU languages.
10 CONTROL IN 2012 While the vast majority of the audits are carried out at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors are visiting EU institutions, agencies and decentralised institutions, the Member States' authorities and other beneficiaries of EU funds (including at the premises of international organisations such as the United Nations in Switzerland).
Verification visits are normally applicable to central and local authorities involved in the approval and management of EU funds and their spending and to final beneficiaries.
In the EU, inspections are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities in the Member States visited.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three reviewers, and the duration of the examination visit may be several days to two weeks, depending on the type of examination and the distance.
In 2012, the Court's auditors spent 6,816 days in on-the-spot checks on 6 054 in the Member States and 762 in the Member States outside the EU and received evidence of annual reports, special annual reports and selected audit tasks.
They also spent a lot of time in the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 800 600 500 300 200 100 days examiners on site 2012 00 Spain France United Kingdom Poland Italy Germany Greece Romania Portugal Netherlands Czech Republic Repulik Hungary Lithuania Luxembourg Denmark Austria Sweden Slovenia Bulgaria Latvia Finland Ireland Belgium Estonia Slovakia Malta Cyprus Uzbekistan Russia USA Norway Morocco Ukraine Guatemala Turkey Kyrgyzstan Switzerland Senegal Ethiopia Cameroon Serbia Indonesia Egypt Zambia Israel Congo
11 The main conclusions of the 2011 Annual Report on the 2011 Financial Statements constitute the relevant financial situation of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year concerned.
Revenues and commitments were not significantly affected by errors.
However, there have been significant errors in payments, with an estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole of 3.9%.
The error rate is comparable to 3.7% in 2010 for all EU expenditure sectors evaluated individually, with the exception of external relations policy areas, external assistance and enlargement, as well as administrative expenditure.
This shows that improvements in the management of EU funds are still needed. the Court's estimate of the error rate in rural development, the environment, fisheries and health expenditure (the most defective expenditure area) was 7.7%.
It is estimated that the level of error in regional policy, energy policy and transport has reached 6.0% of the Commission's reservations affected the increase by the amount that the Commission's Directors-General thought in 2010 that the risk was affected by the EUR 0.4 billion to EUR 2.0 billion in 2011.
This is due to the fact that, in certain areas, in particular in the areas of rural development, cohesion and research, the Commission has recognised the existence of a high risk of errors. o In general terms, the audit studies show that the control systems are only partially effective in order to ensure the regularity of payments and to the extent possible in order to prevent or detect errors and correct errors.
Many cases will fail as a result of a review. as a result of the Commission's self-assessment of its results, further progress has been made compared to previous years, as a result of which positive improvements have been made.
However, in 2011, the Court's performance checks showed that there is often a lack of analysis of the needs of good quality, the shortcomings in the concept of the programme have a negative impact on the reporting of results and impacts and the Commission must demonstrate European added value.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2011Most of the audits carried out by the Court in 2011 were devoted to the implementation of the EU budget.
The 2011 annual report was published on 6 November 2012.
The objective of the annual report is to support the European Parliament, the Council and the citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management and to recommend appropriate improvements by presenting proposals and proposals.
18. the annual statement of assurance (pure decimal document) on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions is a key element of the annual accounts for the financial year 2011.
The annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2011 contains two new chapters with more targeted results in the field of agriculture and cohesion.
The previous chapter on agriculture and natural resources was replaced by chapter j of agriculture: market support and direct payments and rural development, the environment, fisheries and its health.
In addition, the chapters of real estate... regional policy, energy and transport... and employment and social affairs... replace the previous chapter on cohesion, energy and transport.
12 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND 2011 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are financed by EU Member States but are managed outside the EU budget and are subject to their financial rules.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of the actions financed by the EDF.
With the European Development Fund (EDF), the European Union provides assistance to African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs) in development cooperation under the Cotonou Agreement signed in 2000.
These expenditures aim to reduce poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and gradual integration of ACP and OCT countries into the world economy, and ultimately to eradicate poverty.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars: development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension.
The Court's 2011 Annual Report on the EDF was published on 6 November 2012 in parallel with the annual report on the EU budget.
The Court concluded that the annual accounts of the EDF for 2011 adequately reflect the financial situation of the EDF and the results of its operations and cash flows.
However, 33% of EDF operations were affected by errors, including an estimated percentage of 5,1% of payments made as a result of an error.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORT ON THE AGENCIES, DECENTRAL AUTHORITIES AND OTHER EU AUTHORITIES FOR 2011 The Court published 50 special annual reports, mainly concerning the 2011 financial year, concerning agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. Joint Undertakings) and other EU bodies.
Agencies and decentralised EU bodies shall be established on the basis of EU legislation to carry out specific tasks.
President Caldeira during the presentation of the 2011 Annual Report at the plenary session of the European Parliament (November 2012)
In 2012 SPECIAL REPORTS In addition to its annual reports, the Court shall publish, throughout the year, special reports containing the results of the performance and compliance audit carried out by the Court in specific budgetary areas or management matters selected by the Court.
When selecting and organising these audit tasks, the Court ensures that the maximum results and, therefore, the best use of its resources are made.
In selecting the subjects, the Court takes into account the following factors: the risk to profitability or compliance with the legal standards in the area of income or expenditure; the level of income or expenditure; the time since the previous audit; the upcoming developments in the relevant legal framework; the political and public interest.
In 2012, the Court adopted 25 special reports covering a wide range of issues.
This represents a significant increase compared to the 16 special reports adopted in 2011 (and 12 in 2008).
All special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website: http://eca.europa.eu.
The following pages present the topics identified in the 2012 special reports, in the relevant headings of the 2013-2017-2017 financial framework, i.e. in the EU's multiannual budgetary plans.
14 THE THE GROWTH OF SUSTAINABLE FINANCIAL GROWTH EU spending on sustainable development covers two areas: competitiveness includes promoting research and technological development, the creation of European networks through EU networks, education and training, the promotion of competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social agenda and the dismantling of nuclear facilities.
EU expenditure on growth and employment for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2% of the EU budget, of which almost two thirds are R &amp; D.
Cohesion for growth and jobs mainly concerns cohesion policy for specific areas of activity: the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF).
The EU budget for cohesion 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 344.4 billion, or 35.7% of the EU budget.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports: the financial instruments for SMEs co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (N° 2/2012) The special report assessed the effectiveness and effectiveness of the financial engineering activities co-financed by the ERDF for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods.
The Court found that the impact on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the expenditure on financial instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) incurred under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) was limited as the legal framework did not provide an adequate basis for the use of the various types of financial instruments.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of the EU economy and provide employment, innovation and prosperity.
However, SMEs may not be able to cover the financial needs in the required form and amount.
To support them, the EU uses enterprise and cohesion policy, mainly in the form of grants and increasingly under the ERDF under the financial instruments.
Financial instruments are repayable and renewable instruments.
According to the Commission's figures, ERDF allocations for financial instruments amount to EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 10.4 billion respectively for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods.
o Structural Funds Kommt Did the Commission respond effectively to the shortcomings identified in the management and control systems in the Member States?
(No 3/2012) (Special Report) has examined the extent to which the Commission has put in place appropriate corrective measures in order to implement them on time and to ensure that appropriate financial corrections have been made in the framework of these measures on past irregularities and on improvements in the systems in order to avoid the recurrence of irregularities.
The audit was carried out mainly on the basis of a review of 40 programmes for which significant shortcomings were identified.
The Court found that, with regard to the weaknesses in the management and control systems in the Member States, the Commission was able to ensure the correct application of financial corrections, but to a lesser extent, it ensured that their actions led to improvements in the Member States' systems.
Expenditure on Structural Funds shall be managed by the Commission and the Member States.
Member States shall draw up multiannual programmes which shall be examined and approved by the Commission and subsequently implemented by the Member States.
If significant shortcomings are identified in the management and control systems in the Member States, the Commission shall endeavour to ensure the correction of irregularities and the improvement of systems. to use the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund to co-finance transport infrastructure in maritime ports: an effective investment?
(No 4/2012) ) ) This special report assessed the effectiveness of the objectives and results of 27 projects co-financed by the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund for the period 2000-2006 under the ERDF and Cohesion Fund transport infrastructure reporting code.
The Court found that investment in maritime port infrastructure under cohesion policy was only effective for 11 out of the 27 projects audited.
Maritime transport is the second most important mode of transport in the EU.
The Commission envisages an increase from 3.8 billion tonnes in 2006 to 5.3 billion tonnes in 2018.
Since 2000, the EU has allocated around €6.2 billion from the Structural and Cohesion Funds to co-finance maritime port infrastructure.
15 Control of transport expenditure in the EU
16 THE BUSINESS OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK OF THE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH RAMS OFABLE GROWTH Or is supporting infrastructure projects in the field of municipal waste management in structural actions effectively supporting the Member States in the implementation of the EU's waste policy objectives?
(No 20/2012) Chromatography This special report assessed the results of the 26 infrastructure projects for the management of sampled waste, assessed whether the EU waste policy objectives and the implementation of accompanying measures in the eight regions in which the infrastructure is located.
The Court found that the effectiveness of the infrastructure support for municipal waste management in EU structural measures was hampered by insufficient implementation of accompanying measures and by shortcomings in EU legislation and guidance.
In 2010, every citizen of the 27 EU Member States produced on average approximately 500 kg of waste, which, if not properly collected, processed and disposed of, could have a negative impact on the environment.
The EU introduced common standards and objectives in the form of directives on municipal waste management and co-financed waste management infrastructure in certain regions.
Between 2000 and 2013, the EU has provided €10.8 billion for waste management infrastructure. for the cost-efficiency of investment in energy efficiency in cohesion policy (No 21/2012), the special report assessed whether the investment in energy efficiency in cohesion policy was cost-effective, examining whether the planning and funding provided the right conditions to enable cost-effective investment in energy efficiency and whether energy efficiency projects in public buildings were cost-effective.
The Court notes that the average time for the EU's return on energy efficiency investments is more than 50 years (in extreme cases up to 150 years), which means that funds for this type of investment could be used more cost-effectively.
The cost of increased energy consumption, the consumption of fossil fuels and the impact of human activities on global climate change are the driving force behind the recent EU energy efficiency policy.
Since 2000, under cohesion policy, the European Union has spent almost EUR 5 billion on the co-financing of energy efficiency actions in the Member States.
(No 23/2012) ) "This special report examines whether the objectives of the project have been achieved, whether the targeting of EU funding was based on sound criteria and whether the results achieved were achieved at the lowest cost for the EU budget.
The Court assessed the results of 27 projects aimed at revitalising the falling areas where EU co-financing of a total of EUR 231 million was used and analysed the tools for revitalising the falling areas, which provide a framework for specific actions co-financed in Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and the United Kingdom.
(The results of this special report will be published on 18 April 2013)
Over the last decades, more and more ruined industrial and military areas (so-called ruined areas increasingly strong) have become available.
Lots of places are contaminated.
The EU's structural actions to promote the protection of human health and the environment and the prevention of the spread of rural areas promote the regeneration and re-use of grazing areas.
In the period 2000-2013, EU funds in this area amounted to a total of EUR 5.7 billion.
o The European Union Solidarity Fund's response to the Abruzzo earthquake in 2009: the importance and costs of the action (No 24/2012) in the Special Report assessed whether the actions financed were in line with the EUSF Regulation and whether the construction project of most expenditures was well planned, planned and with due regard to the cost savings aspect.
The Court found that other funded projects were financed, but the CASE project was not in line with the EUSF Regulation.
In addition, weaknesses have been noted in the planning of the CASE project and in the provision of savings in its implementation.
The 2009 earthquake in the centre of the Italian region of Abruzzo caused damage of more than EUR 10 billion.
The European Union has supported Italian disaster management of EUR 0.5 billion from its solidarity fund, which has been used to rescue, provide shelter and temporary schools, and to build earthquake-protected houses under the CASE project.
L Chair in Aquila Italy almost four years after the 2009 earthquake o Are there instruments for monitoring the effectiveness of the expenditure incurred by older workers under the European Social Fund?
(No 25/2012) Pilotproject This special report examines whether and to what extent Member States and the Commission have developed and implemented appropriate instruments to assess the achievement of the objectives of older work.
Six programmes worth €222 million were selected, covering four Member States: Germany, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
The Court found that neither the Member States nor the Commission could demonstrate to what extent the actions supported by the ESF were actually beneficial to older workers.
Between 2007 and 2013, ESF expenditure to support Member States' employment will amount to over €75 billion, representing around 8% of the EU's total budget.
One of the main disadvantaged groups is older workers.
17 Italian apartment L Italian Lierz Aquila, built, resistant to earthquake
18 THE EU'S FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK'S WORKINGS PROSPERITY AND MANAGEMENT OF THE EU'S NATURAL RESOURCES is politically responsible for agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 is EUR 413.1 billion, i.e. 42.3% of the EU budget.
Three quarters of the expenditure concerns direct payments to farmers and support to the agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF) Metalle the larger pillar of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
The next fifth part of the expenditure includes support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second pillar of the CAP.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports: on the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine: progress so far (No 7/2012). This special report assessed progress towards one of the main objectives of the reform of the wine sector, i.e. progress towards a better balance between supply and demand.
The audit focused on "premiere on grubbing-up" and "restructuring and conversion of vineyards" which are two main areas of expenditure and are essential to achieving the objective of achieving a better balance between supply and demand.
The Court found that these two measures were contradictory and that the structural supply surpluses were not significantly reduced.
Over a period of three years of application of the grubbing-up measure ( 2008/2009-2010/2011), the EU budget was EUR 1.1 billion.
The specific report examines whether EU aid for the modernisation of agricultural holdings was targeted at the priorities and specific needs of the EU in the Member States.
The Court found that actions to modernise agricultural holdings would potentially be more effective by using more targeted funds to achieve EU priorities and specific needs in the Member States, and by making effective use of selection procedures.
This aid concerns the financing of investments in agricultural holdings which may include investments in simple goods such as agricultural equipment or wooden fruit boxes or even investments in complex projects such as biogas plants.
The EU budget for this assistance (the EAFRD) for the 2007-2013 programming period amounts to EUR 11.1 billion, representing around 11% of the EU's rural development expenditure.o Control of the control system for the production, processing, distribution and import of organic products (No 9/2012) under this special report, j, whether the control system for organic products provides sufficient assurance of the fulfilment of the key production, processing, distribution and import requirements for organic products.
It examined how the various authorities concerned (the European Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States, accreditation bodies and control authorities) carried out their tasks in the EU and in the management of import systems.
The Court found that the competent authorities in the Member States encountered difficulties in ensuring the traceability of organic products, including that the system needs to address shortcomings in order to ensure that the system works effectively and that consumer confidence is not undermined.
The aim of the EU legal framework for organic production is to provide the basis for the sustainable development of organic production, to ensure a level playing field, to protect consumers' interests while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
A control system has been put in place in which each operator in the supply chain is controlled and certified. for Direct aid for suckler cows, sheep and goats for the partial implementation of the single payment scheme (No 11/2012) In this specific report, it has been assessed whether the aid has been targeted to the most relevant regions in the Member States, whether it has been effective in maintaining production, thus avoiding the negative social, economic and environmental impact, and whether it has been subject to appropriate monitoring and evaluation by the Commission and the Member States.
The Court found that direct CAP support for maternal herds does not produce better results than decoupled aid.
Following the 2003 CAP reform, agricultural aid previously granted in the form of direct payments linked to the production of certain agricultural products (so-called "aid combined with the volume of production") should not be paid depending on the volume of production (i.e. it was separated from production after the introduction of the single payment scheme).
However, for certain sectors and regions, certain derogations were provided for from total separation from production in order to limit the potential negative effects of the immediate transition to such systems.
The total budget for this direct aid for 2011 was EUR 1.0 billion.
19 On-the-spot checks of the beneficiary holding in Spain
20 THE ACTION OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK OF THE TEACHING AND MANAGEMENT OF THE NATURAL RESOURCES FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EU MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FOOD RULES IN THE OF THE FORESTERS OF THE STATES WHICH HAVE STARTED IN THE EU since 2004 (No 14/2012),,............................................................................................................................................................................,.............................................................................................. THE SPECIAL, THE SPECIAL  THE SPECIAL THE SPECIAL,............... THE SPECIAL  THE SPECIAL OF THE.....  THE  THE,. ,.,........., THE SPECIAL ............, THE,.... THE SPECIAL,.,......,,..., IN THE... IN THE OF....., THE, THE,.,.,, IN, THE THE, THE,, THE....,...............,,....
This review examined monitoring, targeted assistance, implementation and financing of hygiene compliance measures.
The Court examined slaughterhouses in Poland, Romania, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, which received EU funds.
While the Court found that the systems of the Commission and the competent authorities established for the monitoring of hygiene legislation were appropriate, the audit showed a number of shortcomings in the implementation of those systems, which showed the need to increase at all levels and reduce risks.
The Member States that joined the EU since 2004 had to ensure that their slaughterhouses complied with EU hygiene rules.
Since these rules generally contained much stricter requirements than national rules, EU funds were made available to assist slaughterhouses in complying with hygiene rules and, therefore, with regard to modernisation.
The special pre-accession programme for agriculture and rural development (Sapard) allocates around €117 million to 241 slaughterhouses.
The support was then continued under the EAGGF and EAFRD. on the effectiveness of the single area payment scheme as a transitional support scheme for farmers in the new Member States (No 16/2012) stressed the main shortcomings in this special report, including payments to beneficiaries who do not (or do not run marginal) agricultural activities, payments to farmers who have given up non-agricultural activities, payments to public authorities and aid focused on several large beneficiaries.
The Court notes that part of the aid was paid to beneficiaries who had carried out only marginal agricultural activities or did not carry out agricultural activities, including public entities, and that the disposal of the aid did not take into account the specificities of regional agricultural activities or the farmers' contribution to the production of public goods.
Moreover, a large majority of farmers receive a very small amount of aid.
The single area payment scheme is a simplified income support scheme for farmers in the Member States that have joined the EU since 2004.
In 2011, payments amounted to around EUR 5 billion.
The Court adopted the following special report in 2012: on the European Integration Fund and on the European Refugee Fund in order to contribute effectively to the integration of third-country nationals?
(No 22/2012) The special report assessed whether the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund, which are part of the EU's general programme for solidarity and management of migration flows (SOLID) effectively contributed to the integration of third-country nationals into the EU, whether the results were supported by effective monitoring and evaluation of the programme, whether the creation of funds contributed to the effective implementation of the funds and whether the implementation of integration measures under the SOLID programme were properly managed.
The Court found that, although positive results were achieved for the various projects audited, inadequate systems were put in place to measure the success of the funds.
The draft programme reduced the effectiveness of the funds and the coordination with other EU funds was insufficient.
The EU supports the integration of third-country nationals in the EU Member States and increases solidarity by sharing the financial burden of managing the common external borders and implementing common policies in the field of asylum and immigration.
The EU budget for Solid for the period 2007-2013 is estimated to amount to a total of EUR 4.0 billion.
21 This policy area has been set up to ensure the free movement of persons and to ensure a high level of protection for citizens.
This includes, inter alia, the management of the EU's external borders and judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters.
It includes asylum and immigration policies, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
Expenditure for this area for the period 2007-2013 is estimated at EUR 12.2 billion.
22 THE EU'S FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK NOT AS THE EU'SGlobal PARTNER conducts activities in the field of external relations in the following ways: enlargement, stability, security and prosperity in the neighbourhood, active promotion of sustainable development in the international arena, promotion of global political governance in the negotiations, and the provision of strategic and civil security.
The EU has allocated €55.9 billion, 5.7% of the planned expenditure, for the period 2007-2013.
The Commission shall mainly manage expenditure directly through its central services or delegations.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports: on the effectiveness of EU development aid for food security in subSaharan Africa (No 1/2012) This special report examines the effectiveness of EU development aid for food security in subSaharan Africa, by analysing whether EU aid for food security development is relevant for the needs and priorities of countries and whether EU action has been effective.
The review focused on direct EU development assistance for the three pillars of food security: food availability, access to food and a sustainable diet.
The Court concluded that EU aid for the development of food security in sub-Saharan Africa is predominantly effective and contributes significantly to the achievement of food security.
However, the Commission has not taken sufficient account of the possibilities of EU support to other countries, which are also affected by chronic food uncertainty, and has not considered that food should be given priority.
Food security is a serious and persistent problem in Sub-Saharan Africa, where hunger affects 30% of the population.
In the period 2002-2010, the EU financed over EUR 3.2 billion from the European Development Fund (EDF) in the region, the Common Information System RELEX (CRIS) (5/2012). In this special report, it examined whether the CRIS was developed in a manner that was effective in meeting the Commission's needs and whether the information it provided was reliable.
The assessment took into account the review of the CRIS dossier available to the Commission and the review of the data contained in the CRIS.
The Court found that CRIS to a large extent met the Commission's needs for information on external actions.
After ten years of development, however, it still has flaws.
CRIS is an information system set up by the Commission to support the management of external actions.
The system's functions have continued to develop since its launch in 2002.
It is currently the main reference system for the management and documentation of external actions, together with relevant reports, and is financed both from the general budget of the EU and from the European Development Fund (EDF).
o European Union assistance to the Cypriot community (No 6/2012) The special report examines whether the Commission has developed a programme of assistance in line with the objectives of the instrument, whether the relevant implementation procedures have been established and whether the individual projects have achieved the relevant objectives.
The objective of the audit was not to assess whether the programme contributed to the objective of political unification.
The Court found that the programme met its objectives as a financial support instrument for the Cypriot community and that, despite the significant constraints, it has generally created appropriate means of support for the Cypriot community.
Some results have already been achieved, but their sustainability is often questionable and the largest project of the programme has not been able to be created.
Around one third of this amount was examined by the Court by means of a sample of agreements. for European Union development assistance for drinking water and basic sanitary services in the sub-Saharan area (No 13/2012) in this special report in order to assess whether the Commission managed Union development assistance to improve the quality of drinking water and basic sanitary services in sub-Saharan Africa in such a way as to ensure effective and sustainable results.
The Court found that EU support improved access to drinking water and basic sanitation.
On the other hand, in the case of less than half of the projects audited, the needs of the beneficiaries have been satisfactorily met, and the benefits will only last if the benefits are secured, not based on fees.
Improving the quality of water and sanitation is crucial to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The provision of clean drinking water and sanitation contributes to economic growth and poverty reduction.
EU expenditure on water and sanitation infrastructure in the sub-Saharan area in the period 2001-2010 was approximately EUR 1.0 billion; in view of the fact that resources for water and sanitation infrastructure are earmarked for other areas of assistance, the Commission is, in total, spending a higher amount on this.
23 Aqua Kiosk in the State of Jigawa in Nigeria
The EU's 24th FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK activities have not acted as a Global PARTNER for the contribution of the European Development Fund (EDF) to a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa (No 17/2012) not in the EU's capacity to contribute significantly to the sustainable development of the road network in sub-Saharan Africa, whether the road infrastructure supported by the EDF is sustainable and whether the Commission effectively supports the sustainable development of road infrastructure.
The audit focused on the technical, financial and institutional sustainability of road infrastructure, with 48 programmes funded under the 8th, 9th and 10th EDFs in six partner countries being analysed since 1995.
The Court found that the Commission's support for a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa is partially effective.
The partner countries visited by the Court are not making sufficient efforts to ensure the sustainable development of road infrastructure, which affects, to varying degrees, roads which are not able to keep up with premature consumption.
Roads and other transport infrastructures are essential for regional integration, economic growth, social development, efficient public administration and security.
In sub-Saharan Africa, road transport is the most important means of transport for people and goods and represents more than 80% of the total transport of goods and services and the demand for transport is growing rapidly.
The EU has allocated around €7.4 billion from the EDF to the region for the period 1995-2011 for the European Union's Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo (No 18/2012) (see for example the introduction to the economic audit).
Road control in Tanzania
25 ECONOMIC SUPERVISION European Union Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo Rule of Law Assistance in Kosovo Kosovo Kosovo Police Mission in the Kosovo Border Patrol © EULEX, 2011, photo of Enisa Kasemi As part of the control of EU Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo, the EU has for the first time joined the Mission for a Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP).
Kosovo is the world's largest beneficiary of EU financial assistance per capita and the largest civilian crisis management operation ever launched by the Union (European Union Rule of Law Mission Kosovo's EULEX mission).
The Court's Special Report No 18/2012 assessed the effectiveness of EU assistance to Kosovo in the field of the rule of law.
The audit focused on four sectors: police, judiciary, customs and the fight against corruption.
The Court also examined the coordination with other donors and the implementation of the EULEX mission.
The study of such a complex area was a challenge.
Four inspection visits were carried out in Kosovo.
There has been consultations with EULEX officials and the European Commission, as well as local officials, representatives of the international donor community and civil society organisations.
The evaluation team examined the projects of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and the Instrument for Stability and the monitoring, advisory and advisory activities (MMA) of the EULEX action.
Meetings took place in Brussels with the Commission, the European External Action Service, the Council and NATO Secretariat.
In addition, the Court supported a team of experts.
The Court concluded that EU aid was not sufficiently effective.
Although the EU has contributed to capacity building, particularly in the area of customs, the success of police and justice assistance has been modest.
The level of organised crime and corruption in Kosovo remains high.
Justice continues to suffer from political pressure, inefficiency and lack of transparency and enforcement.
The limited ability to protect important witnesses in Kosovo and the difficulty in transferring Witnesses to another country are serious shortcomings.
In the words of Gijs de Vries, a member of the Court responsible for the report, the Kosovo authorities have failed to have a sufficient number of priorities for the rule of law and EU assistance should be more effective.
Francisco de Miguel Rodriguez, the team leader, says there is no place in the world other than Kosovo, where in such a small area there would be so many international donors for capacity building.
The Court concluded that the EU coordination mechanisms, including coordination with the international community, need to be improved.
Unlike the other Western Balkan countries, the lack of a common EU position on its independence threatens the possibility of EU accession in the case of Kosovo.
With regard to communication, this attempt has taken new steps.
This was most frequently quoted in 2012 in the Court's report, in which more than 130 articles were published in printed and electronic media.
In addition, a summary video was published on the Court's website.
It was a premiere for the court, in which it reflected its desire to reach a wider audience.
The European Commission and the European External Action Service have accepted the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The report was presented to the European Parliament and to the Council working groups.
Given the importance of its findings, the Upper Chamber of the United Kingdom has decided to examine the report in detail.
26 EU AUTHORITIES, AGENCIES AND OTHER AUTHORITIES In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports: Administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies covers expenditure on staff (pens and staff) and on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology.
The total expenditure for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 55.9 billion, i.e. 5.7% of the total EU budget. The effectiveness of the European Commission's staff development activities (No 10/2012) for 2007-2013, taking into account whether the Commission agreed to develop its staff for the organisation, taking into account the opportunities to develop its staff further, created an environment that motivated the staff to improve their capacity and to live its staff in the workplace.
The Commission's annual funding for external training and teaching material amounted to EUR 26,6 million in 2010. The annual investment in education and development included 230 000 days in training and 310 employees in training and training management and career development. o Did the Commission and Eurostat improve the procedures for creating reliable and reliable European statistics?
(No 12/2012) Ethoxy This special report assessed whether the Commission and Eurostat improved the procedures for the production of reliable and reliable statistics.
The improvement is directly linked to compliance with the Code of Conduct for European Statistics, which sets standards for the production, production and dissemination of statistics and for the implementation of the European Statistical Programme.
No assessment of the reliability of the specific statistical results has been carried out.
The Court found that the Commission and Eurostat had not yet fully implemented the Code of Conduct for European Statistics and that Eurostat had not developed the European Statistical Programme 2008-2012 as an effective tool for planning, monitoring and accountability.
Reliable and reliable statistics are crucial to the achievement of the tasks entrusted to the European Union.
Statistics are necessary in almost all areas in order to define, apply, monitor and evaluate the tasks and objectives set out in the Treaties, and to raise and allocate EU funds.
European political decisions are increasingly directly based on statistics and statistical indicators are increasingly being used as a factor in political decisions or sanctions.O Managing conflicts of interest in selected EU agencies (No 15/2012) are increasingly being used as a factor in conflicts of interest and in this special report it has been assessed whether selected agencies have adequately managed conflicts of interest, whether there are appropriate guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest, and whether the selected agencies have adequately implemented guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest.
The review assessed guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest situations for the four selected agencies which take decisions affecting consumer safety and health.
The Court found that the selected EU agencies did not adequately manage conflicts of interest.
This report examines to what extent the recommendations made by the Court in the seven selected special reports of 2003 to 2009 were implemented by the Commission.
The next special reports focused on three budgetary areas: agriculture, energy and external action.
The Court assessed the actions taken by the Commission on the basis of the Court's recommendations.
The audit showed that the recommendations were taken into account: the Commission fully implemented 29% of the recommendations under examination and 49% implemented mostly, 20% in part, and 2% in part were not implemented.
For more information on the follow-up to the Court's recommendations, see page 39.
27 In 2012, the Court published a new type of report, i.e. a special report, in which the recommendations of the previous special reports were further implemented.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITOR EN 2011 REPORT ON THE FOLLOW-UP OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS' SPECIAL REPORTS Special Reports No 19 2012 ISSN 1831-0834
28 OPINIONS AND OPINIONS CLOSED IN 2012 The Court's opinions on proposals for new or amended legislative acts having financial implications contribute to improving the EU's financial management.
These opinions are issued at the request of the other EU institutions and are used by EU regulators by the European Parliament and the Council at the request of other EU institutions.
Opinions are available in all official EU languages on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu.
29 COMMENTS No 1/2012 ON THE COMMISSION'S LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS ON THE COMMISSION'S REFORM OF THE COMMON AGRICULTURE POLICY FROM 2014. The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is to be reformed by 2013.
In October 2011, the Commission published a proposal containing the main elements of the CAP legislative framework for 2014-2020.
The new legal framework proposes to maintain the current two-pillar structure of the CAP and thus the two existing European financial instruments for the agricultural policy: the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
The Court recognised the Commission's efforts to simplify the CAP rules (e.g. not to apply the different models of the implementation of the current single payment scheme, the introduction of a simplified scheme for small farmers).
In its conclusions, the Commission presented a number of observations by Parliament, the Council and the Court.
However, legislative proposals are, in principle, still focused on expenditure and control, and are therefore still in line with the performance provisions, contrary to the stated intentions.
The Court took note of the Commission's objective of financing the CAP in a way that favours active farmers and of trying to achieve a more balanced distribution of direct payments among beneficiaries.
However, the Court doubted whether the proposed measures could be effectively implemented without imposing an excessive administrative burden on administrative authorities and farmers.
In his view, the solution can consist of a combination of the general principles set out in the Regulation and a systematic monitoring and monitoring of their implementation by the Commission.
He noted that the so-called "introduction' (shortening the aid above a certain ceiling) would have a limited impact on the redistribution of the aid.
This opinion has had a significant impact on the reflection on the future of the CAP.
More than 2,000 articles have been published in the media.
The Court has been invited by a number of NGOs, farmers' fair organizers and other industrial forums to make public, and the European Parliament invites the Court's representatives to participate in working groups on the subject.
Most of the recommendations made by Members of the European Parliament have been included in their own proposals on changes to legislation.
The legislative package will be put to the vote after the adoption of the multiannual financial framework.
30 COOPERATION WITH THE MISCELLANEOUS AUDIT AUTHORITIES The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Offices (ORCBs) mainly in the following bodies: the ORC Contact Committee of the EU Member States; the ORC Network of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries; the International Audit Authorities, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
Meeting of EU Liaison Officers in Rome, April 2012 Meeting of the INTOSAI Sub-Committee in Luxembourg, September 2011
THE CONTACT COMMITTEE OF THE MAJOR DEPARTMENTS OF EU MEMBER STATES' ACCOUNTS 31 In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court of Auditors and the national audit authorities shall cooperate with full trust and respect for their independence.
The Court is actively working with the Court of Auditors of the EU Member States within the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee shall meet once a year with the Presidents of the EU-ORKB and the Court.
Working groups and task forces have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2012, the Court supported the Presidency-in-Office of the Contact Committee (ORKB of Portugal) in the preparation and organisation of the 2012 annual meeting held in Estoril (Portugal) on 18 and 19 October 2012.
The meeting focused on two main issues: the challenges facing the ORB in preparing for the forthcoming EU financial framework (2014-2020) and recent developments in response to the financial crisis and the EU's audit experience in this area.
At its meeting, the Contact Committee decided to set up a task force to analyse the tasks and role of the ORKB, taking into account recent developments in the EU in terms of the creation of a new economic, budgetary and financial structure and the possible impact on the ORK.
The Court is a member of this Task Force, which is to report to the Contact Committee in 2013.
In addition, in 2012, the Court also provided administrative support to the Contact Committee and actively participated in the various working groups and networks.
In addition, in 2012, the Court contributed to the euro area OrkB initiative to ensure adequate external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
In April 2012, the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union was given a common position on the proposal for a Statute for Article 30 of the Treaty establishing a mechanism.
The final version of the Statutes is broadly in line with this Common Position with regard to the Audit Committee.
32 network of major audit authorities of the accounts of the countries of the countries of the countries of origin and of the countries of the countries of origin of the armed forces of the Republic of Moldova and of the countries of origin of the countries of origin and the countries of origin and origin of the countries of origin of the origin of the countries of origin of the countries of origin and origin of the origin of the products of origin and origin of the origin of the products of origin and origin of the origin of the products of origin and origin of the countries of origin and origin of the origin of the products of origin of the countries of origin of origin and origin of the origin of the products of origin of the countries of origin and origin of the origin of the products of the countries of origin of origin of the countries of origin of the countries of origin of origin of the origin of the products of origin of the origin of the origin of the origin of the origin of the products of the origin of the products of the origin of the products of the products and origin of the products of origin of the products of the products of the products of origin of the origin of the origin and of the origin of the origin of the products of the products of the products of origin of the products of the products and of origin of the products of the products of origin of origin of origin of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products and of the products of the products of origin of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of origin of origin of the products of the products of the products of origin of the products of origin of origin of the products of origin of the products of origin of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of the products of origin of the products of the products of origin of the products of origin of origin of origin of origin of the products of origin of the origin of origin of origin of the origin of the products of the products of the products of the products of the origin of the products of the products of the products of origin of the products of origin of the origin of the products of origin of the products of the origin of origin of origin of the products of origin of the origin of the products of the origin of the products of the origin of the products of origin of the products of origin of the products of the products of origin of origin of origin of the products of origin of the products of the products of the products
One of the most important instruments of cooperation is the ORKB of candidate countries and potential candidate countries1 and the organisation structure similar to the structure of the Contact Committee.
This network shall cover regular meetings of the Chairpersons and Liaison Officers and working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits.
In 2012, the Court supported the implementation of the work programme, which forms part of the Istanbul agreement adopted at the meeting of the network presidents in March 2011.
The President of the Court took part in the 150th anniversary of the Court of Auditors of Turkey and paid an official visit to the Croatian Court of Auditors.
The Court continued its active participation and participation in INTOSAI and EUROSAI activities in 2012.
In 2012, the Court continued its work on the objective of the 1st General Meeting of the Court. In the light of the technical standards of INTOSAI... as a member of the... Financial Audit Sub-Committee, of the Sub-Committee on Audit of Compliance with the Legal Standards and Economic Audit...in the draft quality control control of control and harmonisation.
With regard to Objective 2 Strengthening expertise Strengthening the competences of the High Level of INTOSAI, the Court has contributed as follows: to support the Sub-Committee on the Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through voluntary peer reviews and has organised a fifth meeting on the accompanying work of the Sub-Committee Strengthening the work to develop the expertise of INTOSAI members of the High Level on INTOSAI.
As part of Objective 3 of the INTOSAI Knowledge Exchange since 2008, the Court has chaired the INTOSAI Working Group on the accountability and audit of assistance in the event of natural disasters.
In 2012, the working group carried out the following work: on the preparation and preparation of five projects of international standards for the highest audit authorities (ISSAI), created by the new series 5500-55599 (ISSAI), aimed at the guidelines for the control of natural disasters aid.The IntosAI guidelines for good governance (INTOSAI GOV) on the Integrated Financial Responsibility Framework for the 1st year of February 2013 were composed of one of the acceding countries (Croatia), five candidate countries (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and two potential candidate countries (Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina).
All five ISSAI and INTOSAI GOV will be presented for adoption by the next INTOSAI Congress in 2013.
In 2012, the Court also took the following steps: on the Fourth Meeting of the Steering Committee on the Exchange of Knowledge of INTOSAI, in which he chaired the ORKB in India. on He continued to contribute to the Working Group on the Environmental Assessment of INTOSAI. on He took part in the Joint Meeting of the INTOSAI Working Group on sovereign debt and task force on the Global Financial Crisis on Environmental Change.
The Court continued its participation in the Intosaint project, the project, which is an instrument of self-assessment under the OPRB, under the auspices of INTOSAI, which is under the command of the Netherlands ORB.
In 2012, representatives of the Court held a weekly workshop on the self-assessment of fairness in the Norwegian Court. In 2012, a workshop devoted to the self-assessment of the integrity of EUROSAI (after the appointment of a Bureau member) was held in the framework of the XXXIX.
The Court attended the 10th Annual Meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Impact Assessment and contributed to the joint assessment of climate change adaptation, which the Court presented to the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) on behalf of the Working Party at its 2012 meeting, on the first meeting of the Climate Change Task Force, and on the activities of the EUROSAI Task Force on Assessment and Ethics.
At the Joint Conferences of the INTOSAI Regional Working Groups, the Court actively participated in the 7th EUROSAI Conference and the OLACEFS Conference in Latin America and the Caribbean, focusing on the role played by ORKB in promoting good administrative practices in the public sector.
33 4th meeting of the INTOSAI Steering Committee on Information Exchange in Luxembourg, September 2012
34 OUR MANAGEMENT: STRATEGIES FOR 2013-2017 The Court adopted and published its strategy for 2013-2017 in 2012.
The Court's objective during this period is to maximise the Court's contribution to the EU's public responsibility.
The most important priorities for achieving this objective are: to focus the Court's products on improving the EU's accounting requirements; to cooperate with other actors to enhance the Court's contribution to the EU's accounting requirements; to develop as a professional audit body; to make optimum use of the Court's existing knowledge, experience and knowledge; to demonstrate the Court's capacity for implementation and accountability.
The Court will use its unique competences and views and knowledge, expertise and partnerships it has built over a period of 35 years in order to contribute in future to the development of control, policy and financial management mechanisms of the EU; to help other parties involved in the accountability process at EU level to identify the risks associated with the EU control obligation and to facilitate the use of control results; to enhance their professionalism by contributing and applying new control standards and best practices; to enhance the process of reporting and opinion; to improve the results and accountability framework, in line with their commitments, as EU institutions and the ORKB; to implement budgetary discipline measures, in line with the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, including the necessary financial management framework for the duration of the strategy.
In 2013-2017 the Court will focus on its reports, opinions and comments on the following aspects: on stepping up public responsibility and audit systems; on improving financial management and reporting on the implementation of the EU budget and its impact; on improving the planning of EU spending policies and programmes.
IN THE COURT'S COLLEGE In accordance with the Treaty, the term of office of the Members of the Court shall be six years and the term of office shall be renewable.
In 2012, five new members of the Court were elected: Henrik Otbo (Denmark), Pietro Russo (Italy), Ville Itälä (Finland), Kevin Cardiff (Ireland) and Baudilio Baugurz (Spain).
The revised Code of Conduct for Members of the Court in February 2012 adopted a new Code of Conduct for Members, which takes account of the changes that have taken place since the adoption of the previous Code of Conduct eight years ago.
Furthermore, the Court publishes declarations of the interests of its members on its website, which, to a large extent, contributes to transparency. 35
36 Daten Daten über die Förderung des Förderung des Förderung des Förderung der Strategy 2009-2012 Anwendung von Franzigung der Hofswerkeit von Förderung der Stategie 2009-2012 dies Hotzwerk durch diese Über durch dies durch die Überreichung der Über der Übertragungen durch die Anwendigung.
The strategy was applicable between 2009 and 2012 and aimed at maximising the impact of the Court's audits and increasing efficiency by making the best use of resources.
Overall, the Court has successfully implemented its strategy for the period 2009-2012.
Most of the Court's recommendations were adopted: the Commission concluded that around half of the recommendations issued in 2011 were implemented and that the Court's main institutional addressees were satisfied with its annual and special reports, the quality of which was considered by external experts to be good and better, and that in 2008 the number of employees and employees at the audit institute increased by 60 (501) compared to 564 in 2011 and that, as a result of increased efficiency, the Court reduced the number of employees at the audit institute by 40 employees.
With regard to the 2009-2012 strategic period, the Court has identified a number of key performance indicators aimed at: informing management of the progress of the objectives; supporting decision-making; providing information on the performance of the addressees.
Key performance indicators are used to measure the main parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, with particular emphasis on the position of the main addressees and the effectiveness and effectiveness of its use of resources.
Since 2012 was the last year of the 2009-2012 strategic period, the results of the main performance indicators, where available, are presented every four years.
The Court will update the key performance indicators to be used during the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy to reflect its new or revised priorities and will prove its effectiveness and accountability as a professional control body.
The quality and effectiveness of the Court's work shall be assessed by the Court of Justice on the basis of the assessment carried out by the addressees and by the experts.
The Court asked the main addressees of its reports (the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the Council) to assess the quality and impact of the 2011 annual reports and the special reports published in 2012.
The evaluation was carried out on the basis of a five-stage scale (1 very bad, 2 bad, 3 dangerous, 4 good, 5 very good).
4.5 4.0 3.9 4.2 4.0 4.2 105% of the Court's final evaluation of the Court's audit reports by the Main Main Resources 37 2009 2010 2011 2012 Target's result Stays stable throughout the period with a value of 3.9 to 4.2 on a five-stage scale.
This shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports are of the opinion that their quality and impact are averages for this good are good for this.
In 2012, the Court reached this rate by five percent higher.
38 EXPERTS' EXPERTS reviewed the content and presentation of the Court's sample every year.
In 2012, the auditors assessed the eight special reports and the 2011 annual reports.
The assessment of the quality of the various aspects of the reports has been carried out on a four-step scale significantly affected the slope of 1 to the most beautiful on the road to 4 (4)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3.5 3.0 2.5 3.0 2.8 3.0 106 % of the 2011 target 4.0 3.5 3.0 of the FEEDBACK BACK OF THE BEST FEEDBACK AGENCIES AGENCIES 3,7 3.7 3.6 3,6 97 % of the 2011 target 2.8 THE OVERVIEW OF THE COURT'S REPORTS BY EXPERTS 3,5 2009 2011 In 2012, as a result of the assessment of the four stages between 2009 and 2012, between 2.8 and 3.0 at between 2.0 and 3.0 at 3.0 and 3.0 from 3.0 at 3.0 at the level of 3.0.
The reviews provided the Court with valuable information on the quality of the reports and the recommendations of the auditors are used for further improvement.
In 2012, on the basis of the survey and the scale of the assessment carried out by the Commission.
The results on a five-stage scale in 2009-2012 ranged from 3.5 to 3.7. The results show that the main verified authorities on average assess the Court's audits as "good'.
Overall, the results of the evaluations carried out between 2009 and 2012 by the addressees are positive and show that, among the main addressees of the Court, they show the quality and impact of the reports.
The Court shall use its audit experience in particular in the form of recommendations in the reports in order to contribute to the improvement of financial management.
In order to amend, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the evaluation bodies and subsequently implemented.
The Court therefore measures both parameters.
100 % 90 % 80 % 94% 2009 94% 2010 93% 2011 Objective 98 % 109 % Objective 2012 ADOPTED COURT RECOMMENDATION RESULTS The Court's recommendation acceptance rate was 93% to 98% between 2009 and 2012.
The objective set for this indicator has been exceeded annually.
In 2011, the Court started systematic monitoring of the implementation of its recommendations, given that the implementation of some recommendations may take a long time due to their scale or complexity.
According to the Commission's statistics, 63% of the recommendations of almost 500 were implemented in 2009-2012 by the end of 2012.
More than half of the recommendations were also implemented in 2011.
100% 80% 60% 60% 40% 20% 0 35% After 1 year 56% After 2 years 73% After 3 years 76 % After 4 years of 1 year 1 year 39
40 EFFIBILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF RESOURCES The Court shall assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the use of resources on the basis of how well it is able to report and report on controls in due time, to comply with its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and competence of its staff.
The Court shall monitor the effectiveness of its reporting procedure by comparing the number of reports scheduled for a given year with the number of reports adopted and by verifying that the reports have been adopted within the time limits set for that purpose.
100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 79% 2008 91% 2009 90 % 2010 83% 2011 93 % 103 % of targets 2012 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 73 % 2008 67 % 2009 80 % 2010 Result 75 % 73 % 81 % of the Court's target for the Court's 2008 % of the Court's adopted reports.
The measurement showed that the annual targets have been achieved to a large extent but further improvements are possible, in particular with regard to the preparation of special reports.
The punctuality of the reports has also been measured since 2008.
On the basis of the objectives of the measurement of the results, the time limits for annual annual reports and special annual reports, in accordance with the provisions, and the relevant time limits for special reports shall be set out in the planning documents in this respect.
NUMBER OF ADOPTED REPORTS OF THE COURT ADOPTED FOR 2011 2012
Between 2008 and 2012, this ratio was 67-73%, which means that it was lower than the 90% target set for this indicator.
The main reasons were the ambitious planning of special reports and unpredictable events during the audit.
The Court notes that while the accuracy of the planning of performance checks and of the performance of controls could be further improved in 2008-2012, not only could the number of specific reports be significantly increased, but also their duration could be brought closer to the 18-month target.
Between 2008 and 2012 85 special reports were adopted (compared to 51 special reports between 2003 and 2007) and the average duration was reduced from 25 months in 2008 to 20 months in 2012.
The Court's 2013-2017 strategy includes a new initiative to further improve reporting to improve the timeliness and effectiveness of reporting.
THE NEED FOR CONTROL POSITIONS The Court uses audit messages to confirm the validity of the specific findings of the audit by the audited entities.
The audit communications are therefore an important step in the audit process.
In accordance with the Court's internal rules, the audit notices should be drawn up within two months of the audit being carried out, with annual measurements being made of the extent to which that deadline has been respected.
70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 54% 58% 61 % 90 % target 2012 27% 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target target 30% Result 43 % Target target 30 % 43% The Court concluded that there was a significant need for improvement for timely reporting.
When the Court started its measurements in 2008, it set two targets for the punctuality of the audit notifications: a 10% improvement in the results per year and a 80% improvement in the audit notifications by the end of 2012.
In the period 2008-2012 the result was 27-61%.
While these results have improved significantly and the annual targets have been largely achieved, results are still lower than the long-term target of 80% in 2012.
The Court will continue to seek even better results in this area 41.
42 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court seeks to obtain an independent auditor's opinion without reservation on the annual accounts and the use of resources and from the European Parliament on the basis of a positive opinion of the Council.
The Court receives an external evaluation of the Court's financial management of the financial year after the financial year of April 2013 of the Court's external audit of discharge. The Court received an opinion from an independent auditor without reservation and discharge from the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the budget every year.
The Court tries to provide experts with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training in accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).
7 6 5 4 3 5, 7 6.1 days 4.0 2009 5.2 104 % of the objectives of WATCHDAY 2010 2011 2012 Result
The seminar on automatic procedures for the year, January 2012 In the period 2009-2012, the Court's reviewer headed the Court for an average of 5.3 days of training per year.
After taking into account the language course, the examiner shall be responsible for an average of 10.6 days of training per year.
The target level of vocational training has been reached every year since 2010.
COOPERATION The Court held an internal consultation in 2009 and 2012 in order to assess the satisfaction of its employees.
This study has two indicators: the percentage of employees who are generally satisfied with their work and the average level of satisfaction of employees in general.
A scale of 1 to 4 has been used, each value above 2,5 indicates general satisfaction.
COOPERATION FROM THE COURT OF COOPERATION TOTAL 100% 90 % 80 % 70 % 4 86 % 86 % 3 2 2.8 2.8 2009 2012 Result 2009 The result of these two interviews was very similar: 86 % of employees in general were satisfied with their work and 2.8 were fully satisfied with their work.
The results can therefore be considered as good.
1 43 44 SUPPORT FOR THE CONTROL OF STAFF RESOURCES SUPPORT OF STAFF RESOURCES The Court's most important capital is its staff.
On 31 December 2012, the Court's staff were 887 staff (officials and temporary staff but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
573 of them operate in examination chambers (including 123 staff in the study of members).
In order to achieve the objective of making the best use of resources, the possibilities of improving efficiency through simplification of procedures were re-examined and implemented in the framework of all actions in 2012.
The posts released for efficiency gains outside the control area have, as far as possible, been transferred to the control service and to the service of the President.
As a result, since 2006, the number of audit posts has increased by 14.4 %, while the number of posts approved by the Court has increased by only 3.5 %.
During the same period, productivity increased significantly (see page 9).
45 Distribution of the Court's posts as at 31 December 2008 2010 2012 2012 Audit 501 525 557 564 573 Translation 163 163 151 148 143 Administration 173 171 157 148 139 Offices of the President 20 21 24 27 32 TOTAL 857 880 889 88789 887 EMPLOYMENT The Court's staff have extensive academic and professional experience and the quality of their work as well as the involvement and experience of the Court have an impact on the Court's work.
Furthermore, the Court, for a limited number of university graduates, establishes a policy of equal opportunity between men and wives, like the other EU institutions, for human resources management and recruitment.
As a result of a steady increase in women's participation over the years, the Court has reached a nearly balanced rate of women's and men's participation among its employees.
At the end of 2012, the Court adopted an action plan on equal opportunities to achieve a more balanced participation of women and men at all levels of the institution.
In 2012, the Court had 78 staff: 50 officials, 11 temporary staff and 17 contract staff.
Since 2011, the number of job vacancies has been almost 3% (28 jobs on 31 December 2012).
46 The following graph shows the percentage of men and women at the level of responsibility at 31 December 2012.
In 2012, the percentage of AD women reached 40% and is likely to increase in the future, as after the last recruitment waves in the AD5-AD8 recruitment group, women account for 46% of the workforce.
Of the 69 directors and directors of departments, 21 (30%) women, this reflects the development of recent years.
Most of them are employed by the Translation Directorate and the administrative services.
Assistants in the Secretariat (functional group AST) 2011 2012 2012 2012 ALTERSPROFIL Men 33 % 33 % Women 67 % 67 % Directors and Directors of the Auditors Department in the Secretariat (functional group AD) Men 2011 72 % 2012 70% Women 28 % 30% Men 61 % 60 % Women 39 % 40 % Age profile of staff employed in the Secretariat on 31 December 2012 indicates that 60% of the Court's staff are 44 years of age or younger.
20-24 0,1% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 One third of the directors and heads of departments are 55 years of age or older.
Professional Education The controller profession requires constant training to keep up with new achievements and acquire new skills.
Moreover, due to the specificities of the Court's audit environment, the auditors need good knowledge of foreign languages.
In 2012, the Court's staff (experts and other staff) completed an average of 8 days of vocational training (9.3 days in 2011).
Language courses accounted for 52% of the total number of training days (compared with 54% in 2011).
Translation is an activity of supporting control, which allows the Court to fulfil its mission and pursue its communication objectives.
In 2012, the value of translations reached a maximum of 158 861 pages and was therefore 11 % higher than in 2011.
More than 99% of translations were completed on time.
Information technologies are crucial for the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Court.
2012 was a successful year: a first version of the new control support instrument (ASYST2) of the Court was established in the field of knowledge management and a pilot phase was subsequently established in the control department.
In 2012, the presentation was extended and the new courses and courses were developed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
In addition, the introduction of a new electronic system and the development of e-learning have made it possible to manage training activities more effectively.
TRANSLATION INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Directorate for TRANSLATIONNOLOGY The Court also provided linguistic support for inspections in the Member States and for subsequent phases in the preparation of audit reports.
It also supported the INTOSAI working groups and mitigated other specific needs related to the Court's audit activities. the automation of administrative processes was carried out actively through the introduction of the ECAdema supporting the Court's training policy, by decentralising the control of the time by which human resources were spared and by fully digitising the personnel's files.A huge success was the transfer of the Court's data centre to the new K3 building.
The launch of the new building also involved the introduction of a new telephone system and data network 47.
48 MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE In 2012, the Directorate for Finance and Support Services continued to provide: (a) adequate resources, services and infrastructure for the fulfilment of the Court's strategic objectives and objectives; and (b) provide the necessary funding, internal control and accounting mechanisms to support all of the Court's activities.
In order to ensure a safe, comfortable and ergonomic working environment for the Court's staff and to ensure that all the Court's staff work in one place, a second building was granted in 2003.
In November 2012, he closed the building and the first moves took place before the end of the year.
In 2012, the Directorate carried out even more effective and economical measures.
In October 2012, the Court's office was moved to another place in Brussels.
It is currently located in the MTS (Montoyer Science) building at Rue Montoyer 30/ Rue de la Science in Brussels.
USE OF THE CONDITION OF THE CONDITION K3 Building K3 has been completed in good time, in accordance with the quality rules and in the framework of the financial framework.
Complementary work will be carried out in 2013 in the Court's other buildings.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court shall be financed by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget accounts for around 0,1% of the total EU budget and 1.72% of the total administrative budget.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
50 In 2012, the total budget available was 96%.
For Title 1, this indicator is 96%, with the lowest indicator in Chapter 14 (Other external staff and services) and Article 162 (service travel) in Chapter 16 (Other expenditure related to members and staff of the institution) (92%).
For Title 2, the average execution rate is 99%.
The amount of the payment under Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the second enlargement of the Court (building K3).
The fourth financial tranche of EUR 3 million for this project was entered in the 2012 budget and was entered in part and paid in 2012.
The remaining part of the budget for building K3 was transferred to 2013 and is intended to finance contracts awarded to construction companies by the project manager on behalf of the Court.
The total cost of building K3 is estimated at EUR 79 million to be financed over the next five years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 6 million in 2012 and 2013.
The 2013 budget increased slightly by 0.2% compared to 2012.
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE OF "RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF "RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF "RURAL DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF "RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF "RURAL DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF "RURAL DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF THE "RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF THE "RURAL DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA' POLICY AREA OF THE "RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF THE "RURAL DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF THE "RURAL DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA OF THE "RURAL DEVELOPMENT' POLICY AREA
52 THE COURT'S AUDIT AND OUTSIDE CONTROL The Court's annual accounts shall be audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important example of the Court's application of the same principles of transparency and accountability as those of the bodies it is investigating.
The auditor's opinion ssssssssss sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
In accordance with our beliefs, the annual accounts shall provide a true and fair view of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as of 31 December 2011, the financial situation and the cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No financial position and for the accounting rules of the European Union. In respect of financial operations in accordance with the rules and regulations in force.
OJ C 315, 18.10.2012.
53 I, the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that, acting as the authorising officer by delegation, the information contained in this report is correct and accurate and I confirm with reasonable assurance that O they are used for the purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures put in place give reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the proper management of the fraud or fraud identified.
That reasonable assurance shall be based on the assessment of the signatory of the contract and on the information available to him, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers of subdelegated officers, the internal auditor's reports and the reports of the independent auditor on the previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 7 March 2013. Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
54 35 YEARS BETTER EU FUNCTION The European Court of Auditors has been an external auditor of the EU for 35 years and has constantly added value to the financial management of the Union and provides public responsibility for the use of taxpayers' money.
The Court was founded at a time when the European Community (the original European Union) developed towards greater democracy and greater responsibility towards its citizens.
Two particularly important steps are to strengthen the European Parliament's powers in the field of budgetary control and to fully fund the European Community budget from its own resources.
The Community has recognised that it needs an independent external auditor that has helped Parliament and the Council to ensure democratic financial control.
Heinrich Aigner, President of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, who has been firmly in favour of an external audit body at Community level since 1973, referred to an initiative which led to the creation of the European Court of Auditors under the Brussels Treaty of 22 July 1975.
The Court began its activities in October 1977 with its registered office in Luxembourg.
At that time, the President of the Court of Justice, Hans Kuucher, declared the Court to be the financial conscience of the Community.
The Court obtained the status of a fully-fledged European institution on 1 November 1993 following the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty, which guarantees its independence and authority as an equivalent institution.
The Maastricht Treaty also introduces key elements, which are currently one of the Court's main products: the statement of assurance (DAS) of the EU accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam on 1 May 1999, the role of the Court of Justice was extended, which increased its independence and extended its control powers to other policy areas.
The Nice Treaty of 1 February 2003 confirmed the principle that the Court should belong to one member of each of the Member States and stressed the importance of the Court's cooperation with the national audit authorities and enabled the Court to acquire the structure of the Chamber.
Since its establishment, the Court has consistently supported cooperation with the highest audit authorities of the Member States in the control of EU funds, in particular through cooperation with the Contact Committee of EU-ORKB Presidents.
As part of its role as CRKB, the Court also sought to better prepare for developments in the field of public sector control through cooperation with other control bodies within the International Organisation for the Supreme Audit Authority (INTOSAI) and their regional EUROSAI group in order to define technical standards and best practices.
In its early perspective, the Court noted that the peer review process is a tool for the development and dissemination of best practices in the Community in the framework of the European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia.
Over 35 years, the Court has sought to improve the EU's financial management by presenting high-quality products reflecting the EU's changes and the changing needs of its addressees.
Over the last 35 years, the EU has adopted new Member States, has acquired new powers and has created new institutions at EU level.
As a result, the Court's results increased significantly compared to the two opinions drawn up by the Court in the first year of its activity.
Among the Court's products today are annual reports, special reports, statement of assurance, special annual reports, opinions and positioning documents.
The number of products increased to 87 publications in 2012.
For several years, the Court has given a higher priority to monitoring the results of EU policies and to providing guidance to improve productivity.
Like the EU, the Court has evolved.
On the basis of nine members and 120 employees in 1977, the Court now has 27 members and nearly 900 employees.
Like the Union itself, the success of the Court depends on close cooperation between members and employees from all European countries.
The Court is proud that it has been able since 1977 to build skilled, professional and experienced workers to protect the financial interests of citizens.
In the coming years, the Court will aim to contribute to increasing accountability from the budget to achieve the objectives towards citizens.
55 Members of the first College of the Court, November 1977
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2012 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2013: : Activity Report 2013: Annual Report 2013: Activity Report 2013: Annual Activity Report 2013: Annual Activity Report 2013: Annual Activity Report 2013: Activity Report 2013: Activity Report 2013: Annual Report 2013: Activity Report 2013: Annual Activity Report 2013: Annual Report 2013: Activity Report 2013: Annual Report 2013: Annual Report 2013: Annual Report 2013: Annual Report 2011: 2011 Report 2011: Report 2011: Report 2013: Court of Auditors 2013: Annual Report 2013: Annual Report 2013
QJ-AA-13-001-DE-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu http://eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorseca EUAuditorseca, ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2
EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF JUSTICE DE 2014 Activity Report
EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OFrab 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 E-mail: eca-info@eca.europa.eu Internet: http://eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorseca Youtube: EUAuditorseca Many information about the European Union can be found on the Internet (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2015 Print ISBN 978-92-872-2134-6 ISSN 1684-0666 doi:10.2866/062938 QJ-AA-15-001-DE-C PDF ISBN 978-92-872-2130-8 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/751281 QJ-AA-15-001-DE-N EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-2123-0 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/1466 QJ-AA-15-001-DE-E © European Union, 2015 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. Printed in Luxembourg
To commemorate our colleague, Henrik Otbo, a member of the Court, who died unexpectedly on 1 February 2015, Henrik Otbo was born in 1949 and was Danish.
From 1995 to 2012 he was the President of the Danish Court of Auditors and from 1 March 2012 he was a member of the European Court of Auditors in the CEAD chamber (coordination, evaluation, quality assurance and development) with particular responsibility for development and evaluation of audit.
His commitment to the policy of public financial control throughout his life, in particular his leading role in creating international standards for the highest control bodies, as president of the INTOSAI Committee on Technical Standards, was particularly valuable for the Court, his former colleagues in the Danish Court of Auditors and for the whole audit sector.
01 European Court of Auditors 02 The mandate of the European Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the audit of the EU's finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU auditor, it contributes to improving EU financial management, contributes to accountability and transparency and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
The leading and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is of integrity and impartiality and is considered to be a professional, quality and impact of its work and provides valuable support to its addressees to improve the EU's financial management.
Values Independence, honesty and impartiality Professionality Value added Excellence and efficiency Independence, honesty and impartiality of institutions, its members and employees.
An impartial check which takes account of the views of the addressee of the Court but rejects any form of influence on the Court by means of instructions or external pressures.
Maintaining a good level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of financial control at EU and global level.
developing appropriate and timely high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the most relevant issues on which it is based and based on scientific and scientific evidence.
contribute to the effective improvement of EU financial management and contribute to the strengthening of the EU's financial management obligation.
Supporting team spirit through effective communication.
Content 03 page 2 European Court of Auditors 4-5 Introduction of the President 6 2014 at a glance 6 Our actions 6 Our management 7-43 Our actions 7-36 Audit reports and other products 37-38 Relations with the addressees 39-41 Cooperation with other supreme audit bodies 42-43 Important events 44-50 Our management 44-46 College of the Court 47-50 Measurement of the Court's results 51-59 Support audit activities 51-54 Staff 55-56 Support services 57-58 Financial information 59 Audit and accountability 60 Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation
The President's foreword 04 Dear Reader, Dear Readers, 2014 was a year of profound change for the EU and its finances.
The EU has entrusted the European Central Bank with responsibility for the supervision of large banks in the euro area.
This was the first year of the new Multiannual Financial Framework of relevance for the implementation of the EU budget for the period 2014-2020.
The new elections of the members of the European Parliament and the renewal of the highest positions in the Council and the European Commission were also of particular importance. The European Court of Auditors (ECA) also welcomed the six new members.
In 2014 our body prepared 91 reports, opinions and other products, more than ever before.
They are the result of our accounting audits, compliance audits and efficiency audits, including audits, which are part of our new competences in financial and economic governance.
They contain many important proposals, proposals and recommendations for improving EU financial management and accountability for the 2014-2020 programming period.
Some of the most important of these are presented in this annual activity report.
In addition, we are trying to give our addressees the broadest possible knowledge of the key challenges facing the EU in terms of financing and implementation of policies, based on our experience in the field of control.
To this end In 2014, we introduced a new product called "Landscape Analysis" and as a contribution to this period. In 2014, we introduced a new product.
In addition, at the request of the European Parliament, we have published an overview of the results of our audits on accounting and compliance 2009-2013 in the field of agriculture and cohesion.
The Court also cooperates with a group of addressees to ensure that the addressees can make the most of the results of their work.
In 2014, the Court appointed, inter alia, the member responsible for institutional relations and the Ombudsman.
It has also organised a number of events aimed at ensuring exchanges with EU and Member States' stakeholders at a high level.
During this conference, a number of people in charge of the management and control of EU funds, including Members of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the highest control bodies and representatives of scientific bodies met.
The vice-president of the European Parliament and the former EU representative, the unruly Olli Rehn, gave a preliminary speech.
Particular attention should be paid to the visit of the delegation of Members of the Court to Lithuania, where the meetings of the Members of Parliament, the Members of the Government and the Representatives of the National Court of Auditors and the Lithuanian Central Bank took place.
Preface by President 05 All year round, our strategy for 2013-2017 has been groundbreaking for our work and for our efforts to reform our institution.
In 2014, we shortened the average time needed to prepare our special reports and reduced the number of our employees as required by the Interinstitutional Agreement.
We have also contributed to an increase in efficiency and efficiency in the future by introducing an internal reform project.
The Commission is expected to contact national, national and national authorities to ensure that the Commission is able to ensure that it is able to ensure that it is selective and, if necessary, fully in accordance with the principles and principles set out in Articles 2 (3) and 2 (3) and 2 (2) and 3 (2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and in Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (ECB/2013/33) and Article 2 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (ECB/2013/33) and Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the European Union, and in particular Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 and Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 3 and Article 3 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 2 and Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 966/2012 of Article 3 (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 and Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 966/2012 of Regulation (EU) No 2 and Article 3 of Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 966/2012) No 966/2012 and Article 3 of Regulation (EU of Article 3 of Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 966/2012) No 966/2012 (EU) No 966/2012 (EU) No 966/2012 (EU) No 966/2012) No 966/2012 and Article 3 of the European Union, and Article 3 of the Commission and Article 3 of the European Union, and Article 3 of Regulation (EU of the European Union and the Commission (EU of the Council Regulation (EU of the Council and in particular of the European Union general principles of the Council Regulation (EU of the Commission Regulation (EU of the Council Regulation (EU of the European Union and of the Council and of the Council Regulation (EU, and of the Council Regulation (EU, and of the Council and Article 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 3rd paragraph 2 3rd subparagraph of the Council (EU of the Council (EU of the Council) No 3 of the Council (EU) No 2 3 of the Council (EU) No 3 of the Council) No 3rd subparagraph (EU of the European Union and 3 and 3rd subparagraph (EU of the 3rd subparagraph (EU of the Council) No 2 of the Council (EU of the
The Court is based in Luxembourg, but our teams of lawyers, as part of their work on obtaining evidence, travel wherever EU funds are spent.
This activity report provides an overview of the inspection visits and provides our reports.
Particular emphasis will be placed on our assessment of EU support for European airport infrastructure.
This is an example of our economic efficiency audits to assess the impact and added value of EU funding and indicates what efforts the Court must make to carry out its mission.
Furthermore, the review shows the involvement and professionalism of the Court's members, where the knowledge and involvement of the Court and the citizens, in their interest, may go.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira
• Organisation of a high-level conference on accountability and public control in one place by combining the European Parliament's activities in two landscapes - analysis on the EU's accountability and financial control and other issues relating to the EU's financial administration and the risk of EU financial management. • Organisation of a high-level conference on accountability and financial control in the EU.
Our management • In 2014, the Court welcomed six new members: Alex Brennankmeijer, Danièle Lamarque, Nikolaos Millionis, Phil Wynn Owen, Klaus-Heiner Lehne and Oskar Herics.
The College of Members, Vítor Caldeira, has chosen for the third period of three years, once again as the President of the Court and Ville Itälä, has appointed a member responsible for institutional relations. • The Court's 2013-2017 strategy has been a stimulus for changes in the organisation: the Court has introduced an internal reform project aimed at improving the audit process and ensuring a more flexible organisation of resources. • Further improving the efficiency of the administration, based on the simplification of procedures and the placement in the audit of employees in the field of support services.
An action plan on equal opportunities has also been implemented.
Court building in Luxembourg.
Our activities 07 Audit reports and other products The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: • Annual reports and annual reports on the Court of Auditors' work and the results of the audits of financial reporting and compliance with the rules on the European Union budget and the European Development Fund (EDF).
This includes detailed annual reports on the agencies, decentralised bodies and EU Joint Undertakings. • Special reports, which may be published at any time during the year, together with the results of audits of their choice, in certain budgetary areas and/or management issues.
These are essentially economic checks. • Opinions on new or amended legislation affecting financial funding and other analysis-based products, prepared at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative.
In 2014, the Court developed more products than ever before and also presented new products.
The annual reports continue to contain a lot of analytical information, as well as a lot of information, which gives a full description of the results of our annual accounting audits and compliance audits.
In 2014, more focus was given to efficiency audits in order to provide the EU budgetary authority with additional information on the quality of the implementation of the EU budget.
In addition to the annual reports, for the first time, we published a summary of our audit results on agricultural and cohesion expenditure under shared management, in the period 2009-2013, in order to provide a multiannual perspective.
Their important development was a new product called Landscape analysis.
Rural analysis shall provide information and analysis on key issues on the basis of our audit expertise.
In 2014, we published two Landscape analyses: the first focused on the key challenges facing the EU, namely accountability and financial control, and the second focused on the risks related to EU financial management.
In 2012 2012 2012: Annual Reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 Special Annual Reports on EU agencies and decentralised agencies 50 50 51 Special Reports 25 19 24 Opinions and other statements 10 6 14 Total 87 77 91 The full version of each audit report, opinions and analyses on decentralised countries is available on the Court's website (ec.europa.eu) in 23 official EU languages.
Our activities 08 Audit visits in 2014. While most of the audit work takes place in our premises in Luxembourg, our auditors also carry out verification visits with the authorities of the Member States, among other beneficiaries of EU funds (including in the premises of international organisations such as the World Health Organisation in Switzerland) and with EU agencies and agencies.
The purpose of these visits is to obtain direct proof of control from the actors involved in the approval and management of EU funds and to pay them as well as from their final beneficiaries.
Our audit teams typically consist of two or three controllers, and the duration of the audit visit is several days to two weeks, depending on the type of exam and the distance.
In the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in consultation with the highest audit authorities in the Member States visited.
The frequency and intensity of checks in individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the nature of the checks and the results of the selection of the sample.
The number and duration of inspection visits may therefore vary from country to country and from year to year.
In 2014, the Court's auditors spent 4,915 days on on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU in order to obtain evidence and evidence on annual reports and selected audit tasks (audit reports).
In addition, they have spent a lot of time in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as in decentralised agencies and agencies across the EU.
In 2014, our auditors used less days for on-the-spot checks than in previous years.
This is due to more effective work procedures and increased use of technologies such as video conferencing.
EU inspectors used EU inspectors to verify maritime freight installations.
4 915 days on site
Our activities 09 days on the spot inspection in 2014 Italy Poland Germany Spain France United Kingdom Portugal Greece Romania Czech Republic Lithuania Austria Sweden Hungary Netherlands Slovakia Czech Republic Hungary Germany Latvia Bulgaria Belgium Finland Croatia Slovenia Estonia Malta Cyprus Rwanda India Norway United States of America Algeria Cambodia Morocco Seychelles South Africa Switzerland South Africa Zambia Côte d'Ivoire Fiji Thailand Belize Tunisia Colombia Georgia Indonesia Lesotho Nigeria Serbia Cameroon Mauritania Afghanistan Israel Senegal Madagascar Turkey 50 100 150 250 300 350 400 450
Our actions 10 Annual Implementation Report for the EU Budget for the financial year 2013 Most of the Court's audits of accounting and compliance audits in 2014 were devoted to the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
The 2013 Annual Report was presented on 5 November 2014, including the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the European Union (the ECOFIN Council) and national couples and governments, as well as the media.
The objective of the annual report is to assist the European Parliament, the Council and citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management by presenting their findings and conclusions.
The main element of the 2013 Annual Report is the 20th Annual Statement of Assurance (............ of the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions.
This report included even more information on the cost-effectiveness of EU spending and on the Commission's report on the results.
Estimated error rate in the EU budget: 4.7% of President Caldeira when the annual report for the financial year 2013 was submitted to the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz.
The main information contained in the 2013 annual report, the EU Court delivered an opinion without reservation on the reliability of the European Union accounts for 2013.
The 2013 revenue was generally legal and regular, and this also applies to commitments. ο Payments for 2013 were to a large extent burdened with errors.
The Court therefore issued a wrong opinion on legality and regularity.
This figure is close to the error rate for 2012 (4,8%) and is constantly above the materiality threshold of 2%. ο In particular, the most defective for expenditure in the field of regional policy, transport and energy, the error rate was estimated at 6,9% and rural development, the environment, fisheries and health, with an estimated error rate of 6,7%.
The total estimated error rate in shared management was 5.2%.
As in 2012, in the case of a significant proportion of cases in which a shared management error occurred, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct error prior to the request for recovery. ο The corrective and recovery measures of the Member States' authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Without these measures, the estimated total inflation rate would be 6.3%. ο With regard to the use of EU funds, absorption (use it or lose it....) and legality and not good results in the first place in the 2007-2013 programming period.
This lack of focus on results is a major weakness in the way a large part of the EU budget is generated.
Our actions 12 Control of operations in the various areas of EU spending in 2013. Results of the verified amount and the most likely error rate of 6.9% 3.6% 3.6% 3.6% 6.7% 4.6% 2.6% Agricultural expenditure: market support and direct payments Conclusion on audit Regional policy, transport and energy Employment and social development of rural areas, the environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies.
Our actions 13 Agriculture and cohesion: The EU spending review 2007-2013 was the first time the Court published, in parallel with the annual reports for the first time, in the 23 official languages of the EU with a view to establishing, in view of a multi-annual statement of expenditure, a statement of assurance in two main areas of expenditure: agriculture and cohesion.
The Council presented proposals on problems related to EU financial management and control in the previous expenditure period, presented audit results and presented challenges related to the new expenditure period 2014-2020.
In this context, it also reflects the European Parliament's willingness to obtain information on the management by country. ο With the exception of direct support to farmers in the agricultural sector and to support the market, ο pressure on the use of funds is a fundamental risk to the expenditure under shared management. ο The main risks to the regularity of agricultural expenditure are that the land or animals or the costs on which aid payments are based are not eligible, the beneficiaries of the aid are not eligible, do not meet the requirements and the aid is not fully eligible.
The infringements of agri-environmental requirements, specific requirements for investment projects and public procurement rules are important factors for increasing the risk of rural development expenditure. ο The highest risk of cohesion expenditure is the infringement of EU or national public procurement rules.
The second greatest risk is that expenditure (or projects) is not eligible for EU support. ο While control systems need to be significantly improved, the biggest challenge is to take action to simplify the management of the programmes.
The Court notes errors in all EU Member States.
Despite improved reporting on risks and errors by Member States' authorities, the Commission continues to have serious difficulties in ensuring the reliability of this information. ο Amendments to the new programming period regulations may have no significant impact on the level of risk. ο Despite improved reporting on risks and errors, the Commission continues to have serious difficulties in ensuring the reliability of this information. ο Amendments to the new programming period regulations may have significant consequences on the level of risk and may have no significant impact on the level of risk.
Our actions 14 The 2013 Annual Report on the European Development Fund (EDF) is funded by EU Member States and is subject to separate financial rules and is managed outside the EU general budget.
The European Commission is responsible for managing the financial management of actions financed by the EFF.
Within the framework of the EDF, the European Union grants funds for development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and with the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs) under the Cotonou Agreement of 2000.
Expenditure is aimed at reducing and reducing poverty, and finally reducing poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and gradual integration of ACP countries and OCTs into the world economy.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars: development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and a political dimension.
The Court's 2013 Annual Report on the EDF was published on 5 November 2014 as an annual report on the EU budget.
It contains the 20th EDF Statement of Assurance.
The Court found that the 2013 annual accounts adequately reflect the financial situation and financial situation of the EDF, the results of its operations and the cash flow, as well as the changes in net assets as a whole.
The Court estimated the error rate for EDF expenditure for the financial year 2013 at 3.4 %, which means an increase of 3.0% compared to 2012.
Specific annual reports for the financial year 2013 In 2014, the Court prepared and published 51 annual reports for the financial year 2013.
The reports concerned 41 decentralised EU bodies, executive agencies and agencies, seven EU Joint Undertakings active in research, as well as the European Central Bank, the European Schools and the communication infrastructure Sisnet.
The Court also published two reports summing up the results of its annual audits for the financial year 2013 for the financial year 2013 for one of the EU agencies and other agencies and the other through joint research undertakings.
These two comparative analyses and analyses were submitted to the President of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgetary Control of Parliament, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Committee on Budgets.
These summaries are available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu) together with specific annual reports.
EU agencies, bodies and joint undertakings are prepared on the basis of EU legislation to carry out specific tasks and are established throughout the European Union.
They operate in many areas such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
Each of them shall have a mandate, a management, a director, a staff and a budget.
While agencies, bodies and joint enterprises, for the entire EU budget, represent a relatively small financial risk, the risk of reputation in the Union is high, as they are clearly visible in the Member States and have a significant impact on policy-making, decision-making and programme implementation in areas of key importance for European citizens.
51 Special annual reports per year
Our actions 15 The Court gave 41 agencies and other bodies irresistibly opinions on the reliability of the 2013 accounts.
The underlying transactions were legal and legal for all agencies and other bodies, with the exception of two in all relevant respects, for the EIT (European Institute of Innovation and Technology) and for Frontex (European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union) and for the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union).
Moreover, in 2013, the financial accounts were reliable for all seven Joint Undertakings, but the Court issued a limited opinion for all three Joint Undertakings as regards the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying their annual accounts: Artemis (integrated ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative).
As regards European schools, the Court was unable to determine whether the annual accounts were consolidated, free from material inaccuracies in 2013 as there were still weaknesses in accounting and control in schools.
The Court has examined how the European Central Bank uses its CO2 footprints and concluded that although the Bank has taken action to reduce the negative impact of its administrative action on the environment, further efforts and action are needed.
Special reports adopted in 2014. In addition to annual reports and special annual reports, the Court shall publish, throughout the year, special reports containing the results of its economic efficiency and compliance controls in specific budgetary areas or management areas.
In selecting and shaping audit tasks, the Court seeks to maximise the impact and thus exploit its resources.
The Court takes into account the following factors: • the risk of irregularities or irregularities in terms of efficiency in the area of expenditure or in the area of policy; • the potential to create added value as a result of the Court's audit; • the political and public interest. 24 Special Reports in 2014.
Our actions 16 Main stages of the selected economic evaluation or compliance with the provisions Planning on-the-spot evaluation On-the-spot evaluation Evaluation of the report Publication Publication of the assessment of the suitability and feasibility of the proposed audit; determination of the scope, objectives, approaches, methods and timetable of the assessment of Multidisciplinary teams on-the-spot in the Commission headquarters, as well as in the Member States and the beneficiary countries in which the audit was conducted; preparation of recommendations Confirmation of the facts and findings of the bodies concerned The adoption of the report by the Audit Chamber or the entire College of the Court The publication of a special report in 23 official languages, together with a response from the audited entity, The following pages briefly present the issues of 24 special reports prepared by the Court in 2014 and the relevant items of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, the EU MFF.
Our actions 17 Smart and Inclusive Growth Smart and Inclusive Growth covers two areas: competitiveness for growth and jobs covers research and innovation, education and education, trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, social policy, business development, etc., EU measures for growth and jobs for the period 2014-2020 are: employment and economic growth of a total of EUR 142 billion and 13% of the EU budget at current prices.
Economic, social and territorial cohesion includes a regional policy aimed at promoting the least developed EU countries and regions to move closer to the others, enhancing the competitiveness and cooperation of all regions.
The EU's cohesion funding for 2014-2020 amounts to EUR 367 billion and 34% of the EU budget at current prices respectively.
In 2014, the Court prepared the following special reports in this field: • the effectiveness of public transport projects financed by the EU (No 1/2014), in this special report, the Court assessed the implementation and effectiveness of public transport projects co-financed by the EU Structural Funds in order to determine whether the projects meet the needs of users and whether the objectives have been met.
The audit showed that two thirds of projects in the area of short transport co-financed by the EU Structural Funds have not been sufficiently used.
This development was mainly due to flaws in the design concept and insufficient mobility policy.
However, these insufficient results were not theoretically carried out by project promoters or by national authorities.
In general, infrastructure and vehicles in most projects were designed in accordance with the project specifications.
There were significant delays and overcosts, but almost all of the projects audited met the needs of the users.
European cities need to increase mobility and reduce congestion, accidents and pollution through local mobility strategies.
Projects co-financed the cities to develop local transport systems such as metro, trams and buses.
Trams and buses are important means of public transport.
Our actions 18 • Have cohesion policy funds to support renewable energy production been successful?
(E6/2014 No) states that in this special report, the Court examined whether the two main sources of funding for the promotion of renewable energy sources under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (FS) had the objective of determining whether, in this period, the resources had been sufficiently priority, cost-effective and refined for the production of renewable energy sources, and of the extent to which they had achieved good results in order to achieve the EU 2020 renewable energy target.
The audit concluded that improvements are needed to ensure that EU funding contributes as much as possible to this objective.
The projects audited have produced results according to the plan and most of them have been mature and ready to be implemented at the time of selection.
No significant cost overruns or significant delays were observed and renewable energy capacity was installed as planned and launched as planned.
However, the results of energy production have not always been achieved or have not been properly measured.
The total budget was limited because the cost-effectiveness of the projects was not the guiding principle and the expenditure had limited added value for the EU.
The EU Council has set a binding EU target of 20% of the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2020.
Between 2007 and 2013, some €4.7 billion were allocated to renewable energy from the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund.
(I read in a special report that the Court assessed whether, in the framework of ERDF funding, it successfully supports empirical start-ups that have a strong potential for economic growth.
The audit concluded that the EU has made a significant financial contribution to the creation of infrastructure in centres, in particular in Member States where this type of support to businesses is relatively rare.
However, the results of the centres of incorporation audited were not sufficient.
In view of the financial constraints and the limited scope of business creation, the provision of business services was rather limited.
This situation was mainly due to the lack of expertise in support procedures in support of support and the shortcomings in management systems.
The founding centres aim to support new businesses in the creation and development of businesses.
Support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) has become an increasingly political priority over time.
During the period 2007-2013, EU expenditure in this area amounted to EUR 38 billion.
The building is co-financed by the ERDF y Delta y in the Technologies of Wroclaw Park.
Our actions 19 • Is the ERDF effective in funding projects aimed at the direct promotion of biodiversity in the framework of the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2020?
(No 12/2014) The donors examined in this special report whether the ERDF funds available for direct support for biodiversity were used by the Member States.
The audit showed that the Member States are lagging behind when it comes to project financing compared to other expenditure areas under the ERDF.
For the ERDF to continue to be useful in the implementation of the EU Strategy to reduce biodiversity loss by 2020, the Commission should further support Member States in the implementation of specific conservation and management plans for habitats and natural species.
Projects co-financed were broadly in line with biodiversity priorities at national and EU level.
However, the assessment of the effectiveness of these projects has been undermined by the fact that most Member States have not combined result indicators or monitoring systems to assess the development of natural habitats and species.
The protection of biodiversity is one of the EU's main priorities.
Following the failure to reach the 2010 target to reduce the loss of biodiversity in Europe, the Council adopted a new strategy by 2020 and, in the 2007-2013 programming period, direct support for biodiversity and nature protection was allocated to the ERDF of €2.8 billion. • Has ERDF support to SMEs in the context of e-commerce been effective?
(No 20/2014) Freizeit ) The Court assessed in its special report whether operational programmes were a good basis for effective support for e-commerce activities for SMEs, whether management bodies had correctly selected and monitored e-commerce projects, and whether projects co-financed by the ERDF had successfully implemented e-commerce projects and whether they had had tangible benefits.
The Court found that ERDF support to SMEs in the e-commerce sector containing goods that have been online has contributed to increasing the availability of e-commerce services to businesses on the Internet.
However, due to the lack of control, it was not possible to assess the extent to which ERDF support contributed to the achievement of the information technology objectives in the Member States and in the EU.
Insufficient selection procedures in the Member States lead to the fact that for many projects it is unlikely that a good cost/cost ratio is true.
The programme managers focused more on resource use than on results.
The Commission supports e-commerce through the Digital Agenda for Europe.In the ERDF budget for the period 2007-2013, EU funds of EUR 3 billion have been earmarked for improving the use of ICT by SMEs.The Court's video on Special Report No 20/2014 on Information and Communication Technologies.Is the ERDF effective in funding projects aimed at the direct promotion of biodiversity in the framework of the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020? on the European Biodiversity Strategy?
Our actions 20 Approaching the economic control procedure: EU-funded airport infrastructure: insufficient cost-benefit ratio (No 21/2014) Closed part of the oversized terminal at Fuerteventura airport.
While EU aviation policy aims to address capacity problems, including the creation of additional infrastructure, the better use of existing structures, the optimisation of airport services and better access to other modes of transport, Europe will not be able to address a significant part of this demand due to the lack of ground transport infrastructure.
There are more than 500 airports in Europe with more than one million employees directly or indirectly employed, with a value of more than EUR 140 billion, including airlines.
Airport infrastructure projects are an important area of expenditure in the EU budget: in the 2000-2006 programming period, the EU has allocated €4.5 billion, of which over €2.8 billion from cohesion policy funds.
The Court assessed the results of this support to determine whether the investments were fully needed, whether the time and cost framework for construction projects had been met and whether the newly built or modernised infrastructure had been fully used.
The Court assessed whether the investments led to an increase in the number of passengers, an improvement in after-sales services and whether the supported airports could be financially viable.
The auditors carried out their work between May 2013 and October 2014, with particular emphasis on 20 airports in Estonia, Greece, Italy, Poland and Spain financed by EU funds.
In total, over EUR 600 million were allocated to these airports between 2000 and 2013.
The team assessed the relevant legislation, air traffic planning in five Member States and the publication of the main interbranch organisations.
In particular, the auditors visited 20 airports to assess the results, use, results and impacts, as well as the economic situation of airports, as well as to obtain direct evidence that they originate from EU funds.
The Court found that the cost-benefit ratio for EU-funded investments to airports was not consistent.
Too many airports, often close to each other, have received financial support for similar infrastructures, and in many cases the infrastructure has been overdeveloped.
Only half of the airports audited managed to increase the number of passengers.
No improvement in customer service or regional socio-economic benefits, such as the creation of additional jobs, has been measured or has been shown to be effective.
In addition, the study showed that seven airports were not self-financed and that they would not be able to maintain their activities without further support from the public authorities.
For most airports, the audit team found significant delays in the construction and construction of the infrastructure.
For almost half of airports, the costs were exceeded and the Member States had to pay almost EUR 100 million more of the national budgets than originally planned.
Our actions 21 Funding was not well coordinated by Member States: in most countries there was no strategic long-term airport development plan.
Moreover, the Commission has not monitored financing, which is normally not aware of which airports receive grants or what amounts are concerned.
In this way, it will not have a complete picture of all EU investments in airports, it will have limited possibilities to ensure monitoring and ensure proper development and implementation of the strategy.
On the basis of these findings, the Court recommended to the Commission, starting from the 2014-2020 programming period, that Member States should benefit from EU funding only for airport infrastructure that is financially stable and the investment needs of which have been adequately assessed and proven.
Another recommendation was that Member States should have coherent airport development plans at regional, national and transnational level to avoid overcapacity, duplication and uncoordinated investments in airport infrastructure.
In its reply, the Commission ensured that lessons were learned from the experience.
In this context, the Commission has, in principle, introduced a different approach in the relevant provisions for the 2014-2020 programming period.
The report was presented to the European Parliament, which fully supports the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The publication of the report was of great interest to the media.
The media response was the biggest in Spain, but in the press was also available in the press, television press and social media.
From left: Afonso de Castro Malheiro, Jasmine Mitterbuchner, Patrick Weldon, Mircea Radulescu, Pietro Puricella, Joël Costantzer, George Pufan (Member of the Court responsible for the report), Fernando Pascual Gil, Luc Til Joen, Tomasz Plebanowicz, Lorenzo Pirelli, Efstratos Varetidis, Jelena Magermane, Erki Must.
Our actions 22 Sustainable growth: The European Union has political responsibility for agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2014-2020 is EUR 420 billion and 39% of the EU budget at current prices.
Three quarters of the expenditure concern direct payments to farmers and support to the agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF) Guarantee Fund (EGF) direct payments to farmers to the strongest pillars of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Another fifth of the expenditure concerns EU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second pillar of the CAP.
Agriculture and rural development shall be managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2014, the Court drew up the following special reports in this area: • Inclusion of EU water policy objectives in the CAP: the partial achievement (No 4/2014) In this special report, the Court assessed whether the objectives of EU water policy were fully integrated into the common agricultural policy (CAP).
The audit showed that the EU can only partially achieve the objectives of water policy within the CAP.
Two instruments on the integration of water-related issues (the application of cross-compliance and rural development) have shortcomings and the implementation of the Water Framework Directive have an animosity and weakness.
The CAP instruments have so far had a positive impact on supporting policy objectives to improve water quantity and quality.
However, these instruments are limited compared to the ambitious objectives of the CAP.
For example, none of these two instruments allows the "polluter pays" principle to be fully applied to the financing of the CAP.
Furthermore, there is insufficient knowledge at the level of the EU institutions and the Member States about the risks of water resources being exposed to agricultural activities and the trends they generate.
The EU attaches great importance to the protection of European water resources.
Agriculture, one of the largest consumers and polluting water resources, has a key role to play in sustainable water management.
Almost 40% of the EU budget (over €50 billion for 2014) is allocated to the CAP and the EU is trying to influence agricultural procedures affecting water resources.
Our actions 23 • Did the Commission effectively manage the integration of coupled support into the single payment scheme?
(No 2014/EU) (No 2014/EU) () In its special report, the Court assessed how the Commission, following its 2008 Health Check, how EU support related to production (e.g. the land and animals managed) (e.g. animals) was incorporated into the single payment scheme.
The audit showed that in the period 2010-2012, the Commission did not adequately monitor how Member States calculated farmers' entitlement to support under the Union's single farm payment scheme.
Although most Member States have properly used the reference data of farmers, there have been serious shortcomings in the correct application of the rules and rules of calculation.
The Commission has not used its mandate to ensure that the criteria for the allocation of the available support have always been in line with EU rules, in line with the principle of sound budgetary management, and have no potential impact on market conditions.
Within the framework set up by the Commission, it was not sufficiently clear what checks are to be carried out by the Member States, and the Member States' control systems varied in quality; the main objective of the single payment scheme was to shift the focus of the CAP from market support to the support of income to non-production farmers: farmers should be able to adjust their production to market demand and their income should be balanced.
EU support for investment and promotion in the wine sector is currently being used to co-finance 54% of the EU's total agricultural and rural development budget. • Is EU support for investment and promotion in the wine sector well-managed and can it be demonstrated that wine competitiveness in the EU is well managed?
In this special report, the Court assessed whether the investment and marketing promotion activities had been adequately developed and assessed the available monitoring and evaluation data to assess whether the Commission and the Member States had achieved the desired results effectively.
The evaluation concluded that the management of support for investment and promotion in the wine sector was at risk of shortcomings in design and implementation and that it was not always possible to demonstrate that this had an impact on the competitiveness of wines in the EU.
Investment activities specifically targeted at the wine sector are not justified as support is already provided under the EU's rural development policy.
EU support for the promotion of wines was often more likely to consolidate existing markets than to develop new or renewed old markets.
The impact of the investment action cannot be easily separated from investment in rural development.
The EU is the world's largest wine producer.
EU support is aimed at increasing competitiveness and balance between supply and demand.
Between 2009 and 2013, Member States spent EUR 522 million on promotion measures and EUR 518 million on investment measures.
Between 2014 and 2018, the funds allocated to the Member States under this measure increased significantly.
Our actions 24 • Effectiveness of aquaculture support (No 10/2014) given by the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) by the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) partement (EFF) partements (EFF) (EFF) • In the Special Report, the Court assessed whether aquaculture support measures were well designed and properly implemented by the EU and the Member States, and whether the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) provided an adequate cost-benefit ratio and support for the sustainable development of aquaculture.
The audit showed that by 2013 aquaculture support measures were not well designed and implemented at EU and Member State level, that the EFF did not provide an adequate cost/benefit ratio and did not provide effective support for the sustainable development of aquaculture.
The current framework was not adequate to meet the EU's objectives for the sustainable development of aquaculture and the results were insufficient.
Actions to promote the sustainable development of aquaculture in the Member States have not been well designed and implemented.
The national strategic plans and operational programmes of the Member States were not clear enough and the Member States did not have a coherent strategy for the sector.
In many cases, EDF funds have not been used sufficiently towards aquaculture projects, and the audit has shown that these projects have generally not been able to achieve the planned results nor have they been able to achieve the benefits which will generate the benefits.
Every year aquaculture produces 1.3 million tonnes of fish in the EU, with a turnover of EUR 4 billion.
One of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) for the period up to 2013 was to promote the sustainable development of aquaculture.
By May 2013, more than EUR 400 million were allocated under the EFF to finance production investment and environmental and health measures in the aquaculture sector. • Economic economy: the control of the costs of EU aid for rural development projects (No 22/2014) in the the Special Report (No 22/2014) the Court examined whether the approaches adopted by the Commission and the Member States were most effective in controlling the costs of rural development aid.
The audit showed that EU Member States can achieve significant savings in aid for rural development projects, while at the same time making greater use of resources.
The auditors have set out practical and economic approaches which could be wider in relation to Member States' control of the costs of rural development aid.
The control systems of the Member States were intended to control the prices of the goods or works referred to in the aid applications in question without paying the same attention to whether the goods were measured.
Some price controls were time-consuming or were not certain that the approved costs were appropriate.
At the beginning of the programming period, the Commission did not provide sufficient guidance or ensure the dissemination of procedures which are not recommended.
It did not ensure the effectiveness of the Member States' systems before granting large-scale aid.
About half of the EU's rural development expenditure for 2007-2013 was EUR 100 billion in grants for investment projects and other projects carried out by farmers, agricultural enterprises, associations and local authorities.
Our actions 25 • Errors in rural development expenditure: What are the causes and actions taken to eliminate them?
(No 23/2014) those, including the Special Report, have examined compliance with the existing legislation and other provisions on the implementation of rural development and identified the main reasons for the high level of error in this area.
The audit showed that most of the errors in rural development policy are due to a breach of the conditions laid down at Member State level.
Control authorities in the Member States could and should have detected and corrected most of the errors in investment in rural development.
Member States' control systems are insufficient because controls are not comprehensive and are based on insufficient information.
The average error rate in rural development expenditure over the last three years was 8.2%.
The investment error was two thirds of the error and the area aid was one third.
Only 16% of the error rate was due to non-compliance with the rules contained directly in the EU regulations, while the majority among stakeholders was due to non-compliance with the conditions established at Member State level.
During the 2007-2013 programming period, the EU and the Member States have allocated more than EUR 150 billion to rural development policy, which, in almost equal parts, has been used for investment and area aid.
• Is EU aid to prevent and mitigate forest damage well managed and managed by natural disasters and natural disasters?
(No 24/2014) this special report of the Court (Special Report) assessed whether the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) support measure for forest recovery and the introduction of prevention measures (Action 226) was well managed and whether the Commission and the Member States could demonstrate that the objectives of the aid were achieved in a cost-effective manner.
The audit showed that EU funding to prevent forest fires and to rebuild forests affected by natural disasters and fires was not properly managed.
The Commission and the Member States are unable to realise that the financing objectives have been achieved in a cost-effective manner.
Over the last 30 years, the EU has destroyed on average 480 000 hectares of forest every year.
Preventive actions accounted for more than 80% of the EU's funding of €1.5 million for the period 2007-2013.
Our actions 26 Security and citizenship This policy area has been established to ensure the free movement of persons and to ensure a high level of protection for citizens.
It covers both the management of the EU's external borders and judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, as well as asylum and immigration policies, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
It is estimated that expenditure on this area for the period 2014-2020 amounts to EUR 18 million and less than 2% of the total budget respectively.
In 2014, the Court drew up the following special reports in this field: • Conclusions from the development by the European Commission (No 3/2014) of the SIS II Information System (SIS II) on the development of SIS II • In this special report the Court examined why the Commission provided SIS II more than six years later than was planned and incurred eight times the costs envisaged.
The analysis revealed whether there was a stable business structure throughout the project's duration in SIS II, which took into account the significant changes in costs and expected benefits.
The audit concluded that delays and excessive costs were due to shortcomings in the Commission's management.
The original deadline was unrealistic and the Commission was not able to effectively manage the main development mandate before 2009.
The actual level of investments needed was clearly underestimated in the initial cost estimates.
The total cost of SIS II was EUR 189 million, which initially corresponds to the estimated amount of EUR 23 million.
The Commission has not fully demonstrated that SIS II provides its best cost/cost ratio.
However, she gained the experience gained during the first phase of the project, and some of them have already been used in other large IT projects.
The Schengen Information System shall be used by the customs, border, police, customs, visa and judicial authorities throughout the Schengen area.
It shall contain information on persons who may have been involved in a serious crime or who do not have the right to enter or stay in the EU.
• The External Borders Fund has helped to increase financial solidarity, but it is necessary to improve the measurement of results and to create additional added value for the EU (No 15/2014) to increase the effectiveness and added value of the External Borders Fund for the EU (No 15/2014) • In this special report, the Court assessed the effectiveness of the External Borders Fund for the EU and assessed to what extent the objectives of the projects and programmes co-financed have been achieved.
The audit showed that the External Borders Fund has contributed to ensuring the management of the EU's external borders and increasing financial solidarity between Member States.
However, the EU added value was limited and the results could not be measured due to shortcomings in monitoring by the competent authorities and serious shortcomings in the evaluations at the level of the Commission and at the level of the Member States.
Member States' programmes were not integrated into national border control strategies and visas and did not contain SMART objectives or measurable indicators.
The project selection procedure does not ensure that the real needs of the Member States are met.
Insufficient procurement procedures in the Member States pose a threat to the cost-effectiveness of budgetary management.
The majority of the Member States concerned (Greece, Spain, Italy and Malta in the first years of funding) experienced 4 weaknesses in the management of the Fund.
The EU's main financial instrument supporting the protection of external borders was the External Borders Fund for the period 2007-2013, which received EUR 1.9 billion.
Its overarching objective was to support the current and future Schengen countries in ensuring uniform, effective and effective controls at their common external borders.
Our actions 27 Europe in the world The EU's external relations activities focus on: enlargement, stability, security and prosperity in the neighbourhood, active promotion of sustainable development at international level, promoting global political governance and ensuring strategic and civil security.
The EU has allocated EUR 66 billion to these objectives for the period 2014-2020 on the basis of current prices or 6 percent of planned expenditure.
The Commission shall manage expenditure directly through its central services or delegations.
In 2014, the Court prepared the following special reports in this area: • the establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS) (No 11/2014) In this special report, the Court examined whether the establishment of the EEAS had been adequately prepared as to whether its resources had been best targeted, organised and allocated and whether it had cooperated effectively with the Commission and the Member States.
The audit concluded that the EEAS should increase its efficiency and increase its efforts for the EU and its citizens.
The establishment of the EEAS was premature and was not properly prepared.
The lack of priorities, organisation and allocation of resources has made its efficiency weak.
Coordination between the EEAS and the Commission was only partially effective, mainly due to the lack of effective coordination mechanisms and the rigid financial and administrative framework at the level of the Delegate.
Coordination with Member States may be strengthened with a view to exploiting synergies in the exchange of information or shared accommodation and improving consular services, including the protection of EU citizens.
The EEAS shall have its headquarters in Brussels, comprising 140 delegations worldwide.
In 2014, the EEAS had a budget of EUR 519 million, divided between headquarters (41%) and delegations (59%). • EU aid for rehabilitation following the earthquake in Haiti (No 13/2014) Weiterverkauf In this special report, the Court examined whether EU aid for rehabilitation in a country was well designed and implemented in an appropriate manner and whether the Commission ensured an appropriate combination of emergency aid with rehabilitation and development activities.
The audit showed that EU aid for rehabilitation after the earthquake in Haiti in 2010 was generally well designed and targeted at the country's urgent needs, but that the programmes were not implemented in a sufficiently effective way and that emergency aid, rehabilitation and development were not sufficiently linked.
Most of the programmes audited met or checked production requirements, although almost all programmes were delayed.
Although the Commission was aware of the difficult situation, it did not sufficiently assess certain important risks that would jeopardise the achievement and achievement of the objectives of the programme.
The programmes have been monitored but the Commission and the EEAS have not taken timely action to increase the resources of the EU Delegation to Haiti.
In March 2010, 55 donors granted USD 5.4 billion for the period 2010-2012 for rehabilitation and development and USD 3.0 billion for 2013 and the period thereafter.
The European Union was one of the main donors, promised it would receive EUR 1.2 billion.
Our actions 28 • The effectiveness of combining financial assistance with regional investment instruments with loans granted by financial institutions to support EU external policy (No 16/2014) in this special report The Court examined the establishment and management of investment instruments and wondered whether the intended benefits had been achieved.
The review gave a positive decision on mixed funding, i.e. a combination of financial assistance from regional investment instruments with loans from financial institutions with a view to supporting the EU's external policy as regards structure and overall efficiency, but the Court also draws attention to a number of key issues which need urgent attention.
Although these systems have been well developed, the potential benefits of pooling funds have not been fully realised due to shortcomings in the Commission's management of funds.
Almost half of the projects examined did not have sufficient evidence that the grants were justified.
In some cases, investments would probably be carried out without an EU contribution.
The Commission should ensure that the allocation of funds is based on an accurate and documented allocation of added value to the objectives of the EU's development policy, neighbourhood and enlargement.
Since 2007, the Commission has created eight regional investment instruments.
They combine EFF grants with the EU's general budget with loans mainly from European financial institutions for development.
Combined funding is usually intended to exploit investment opportunities in the form of large infrastructure projects that can be financially viable but cannot be mobilised within the financial market. • Can the EU's initiative on centres of excellence effectively contribute to reducing chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks that come from outside the EU?
(No 1 Vorleistungen) Vliese In this special report, the Court assessed whether the initiative was based on a reliable analysis of the situation prior to 2010, whether the organisational structure of the initiative was appropriate to meet the identified challenges and whether there was an appropriate governance system and whether it was applied.
In the context of the audit, the Court generally welcomed the contribution of centres of excellence to the reduction of the risk associated with CBRN.
This initiative is in line with the priorities set out in the European Security Strategy and the EU Strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
It provides for the involvement of all stakeholders in partner countries in order to improve the sustainability of the actions undertaken.
The organisational structure is generally appropriate, but its complexity has contributed to the delay in the launch of the project.
The Centres of Excellence initiative aims to create regional platforms in different regions of the world in order to address the risks of CBRNs.
This is the largest measure of the Instrument for Stability in the long term and a budget of EUR 100 million has been allocated for the period 2010-2013.
Our activities 29 • In EuropeAid in terms of performance-oriented assessment and monitoring (Results oriented Monitoring entrichtet RM) (No 16/2014) (including the Special Report, the Court has examined whether the systems are reliable, whether the structure and resources are adequate, whether they are adequate and reliable, and whether they are derived from the findings as far as possible.
The Court has carried out a critical assessment of the reliability of these systems.
The bodies responsible for assessing and monitoring the results are well organised, but more attention should be paid to the efficient use of resources.
These systems do not provide sufficient information on the results obtained and do not ensure the greatest possible use of the findings.
The evaluations of projects and programmes organised by the Commission's delegations and implemented in partner countries are not satisfactorily managed: the overall monitoring is not consistent and is not fully clear on the scope of the resources used and does not have access to the results.
The two main elements of the legal framework for the European Commission's Directorate-General for Development and Cooperation (EuropeAid) are its performance-based evaluation and monitoring systems.
The total annual cost of the schemes is estimated at EUR 34-38 million.
The annual development expenditure covered by these schemes is estimated at around EUR 8 billion. • The EU pre-accession assistance to Serbia (No 19/2014) for 2007-2013 was assessed by the Court in this special report as to whether the Commission was effectively managing pre-accession assistance to Serbia for the period 2007-2013, in assessing its support for key governance aspects.
Together with other forms of assistance, the measures of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) have contributed to the implementation of social and economic reforms by Serbia and to the improvement of public finance management.
Based on the experience gained in the implementation of financial and non-financial assistance projects for Serbia, the Commission attaches increasing importance to governance.
The Commission has effectively managed non-financial assistance to Serbia in the management and fight against corruption.
As regards Serbia's preparation for the management of EU decentralised funds, the Commission has also provided effective support, but only to a limited extent of IPA management structures.
One quarter of the IPA funding for Serbia was allocated for management, which, according to the Commission, is the country's biggest challenge.
The EU complements IPA funding through a number of non-financial measures to help Serbia prepare for EU membership.
Our actions 30 Management Administrative expenditure of EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes staff expenditure (staff and pensions) and expenditure on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technologies.
The planned budget for 2014-2020 is EUR 70 million in current prices, i.e. 6% of the total EU budget for 2014-2020.
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report: • How do the EU institutions calculate, reduce and compensate for greenhouse gas emissions?
(No 14/2014) the Court's Special Report assessed whether the EU institutions and bodies implemented strategies to reduce the environmental impact of their administrative activities and whether these strategies were effectively implemented.
In its report, the Court called on the EU institutions and institutions to develop a common policy approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions (carbon emissions and CO2).
The implementation of the eco-management and audit scheme is slow and the information available on actual emissions is insufficient.
Few institutions and bodies systematically use public procurement to transform into a world.
While EU institutions and bodies have managed to reverse the trend of energy-related greenhouse gas emissions in their buildings, the available data shows that there are no clear trends in reducing greenhouse gas emissions compared to other sources of emissions such as business trips.
More than half of the EU institutions and bodies audited have not set any quantitative targets for reducing emissions.
EU environmental policy aims to achieve a high level of protection.
The Treaty (TFEU) requires that environmental protection requirements be taken into account in the definition and implementation of Union policies and actions to promote sustainable development.
Our activities 31 Income and own resources are EU revenue to finance expenditure.
There are three types of own resources: traditional own resources (customs duties imposed outside the EU, sugar production levies), VAT-based own resources and GNI-based own resources (the largest source of revenue from the EU budget).
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report: • Are preferential trade schemes properly managed?
(No 2/2014) depends on whether the Commission has assessed whether the economic effects of the preferential trade rules and whether the controls effectively guarantee that imports will not be subject to the wrong preferential customs duty resulting from the loss of EU revenue.
The audit concluded that although the Commission has increased the quality of impact assessments over time, it has still not sufficiently analysed the economic impact of preferential trade schemes on the economy.
The EU is losing revenue due to shortcomings in customs controls in the Member States: this check must not prevent the introduction of preferential duties on certain imported goods in an inappropriate way.
The EU grants preference through unilateral preferential trade arrangements to developing countries to ensure their duty-free access to the EU market, thereby contributing to the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development.
In 2011, the value of products imported into the EU under preferential trade arrangements amounted to more than EUR 242 billion, representing 14% of imports into the EU.
Our actions 32 Financial and economic management The EU economic governance framework aims to prevent or detect and correct problematic economic developments, such as excessive deficits and debt levels, which may hamper growth and put public finances at risk.
In 2014, the Court adopted its first special report on the subject: • the European Banking Authority: in • EBA in a changing environment (No 5/2014). In this special report, the Court examined whether the Commission and the European Banking Authority (EBA) satisfied their competence to establish new regulation and supervision in the banking sector, and how these systems functioned.
The analysis showed that the Commission's reform of banking legislation and the establishment of EBA were the first important responses to the financial crisis.
EBA has established the basis for the new banking regulation and supervision system.
These shortcomings concerned cross-border banking supervision, assessment of the resilience of EU banks and the promotion of consumer protection.
In the context of the 2011 stress test, which was carried out at EU level without financial security measures, EBA had a limited legal mandate and limited human resources.
Although the stress test led to the recapitalisation of many banks in 2011, it became clear that such stress tests are limited if they are not related to the assessment of the quality of the total assets.
Questions remain concerning the future role of EBA in banking supervision and the role and responsibilities of EBA and the ECB.
As a result of the financial crisis, the Commission has launched measures to stabilise the banking sector to strengthen the regulatory framework and banking supervision, in particular in the case of banks operating across borders.
EBA was established in 2011 in the context of specific proposals for regulatory changes.
EBA plays a role in the supervision of European banking rules and in the protection of consumers.
Our actions 33 Opinions and other statements adopted in 2014 Opinions on proposals for new or revised legislative acts and with financial impact contribute to improving EU financial management.
These opinions shall be issued at the request of other EU institutions and shall be used by the legislative bodies and shall be used by the European Parliament and the Council and used by the European Parliament and the Council in their work.
The Court may also issue documents and analyses on its own initiative on other matters.
At the initiative of the Court of Auditors, the position of the European Court of Auditors on the Commission's report on the fight against corruption was presented, while a study on possible savings in the EU budget was carried out in one place by combining the European Parliament's activities at the request of the European Parliament.
7 comments in 2014
Our actions 34 Earth Analysis The year 2014 was characterised by deep innovation for the European Union.
In the context of these changes, the Court has developed and developed a new product: Landscape analysis.
On the basis of the Court's work and of its knowledge and experience, a wide range of issues are covered in each analysis and analysis.
The purpose of these analyses is to ensure the basic conditions of consultation and dialogue with the Court's address group and to assist the Court in submitting observations on key issues which appear not to be subject to scrutiny.
The first analysis of Landscape, published in September 2014, presents the issues of responsibility and financial control of the EU (see box), which was the main basis of the EU financial responsibility conference in October 2014 (see page 42).
Two analyses on EU financial management were published in November 2014.
It provides an overview of the EU's financial flows and a summary of the issues to be addressed, in order, inter alia, to ensure that a better cost-benefit ratio for EU taxpayers can be achieved in the EU budget (see box).
Opinions and analyses of Landscape are available in 23 official EU languages on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
2 2 Landscape analyses in 2014
Our actions 35 Lukes, duplication and challenges: an analysis of the EU's rules of responsibility and public control The purpose of this analysis is to raise awareness and to encourage the EU's democratic legitimacy of the institutional system.
It describes the basic features of the accountability framework, the role of public financial control, the key elements of a robust chain of responsibility and financial control, as well as six important areas where responsibility and financial control challenges are at EU level, and examines the principles of accountability and financial control as regards the various new EU and intergovernmental instruments developed in response to the financial crisis.
Best use of EU funds: an EU financial risk analysis At a time when governments and taxpayers in the Member States want the funds they are bringing more benefits, the analysis summarises the Court's observations on all aspects of the EU's financial management.
Based on the Court's 35-year experience in the control of EU revenue and expenditure, the analysis presents an overview of the EU's financial management and a summary of the issues to be addressed in order to ensure a better cost-benefit ratio of the EU budget.
This analysis will be complemented by detailed data on the main features and topics related to the various areas of revenue and expenditure and on proposals for improvement.
Our actions 36 The analysis identifies a number of key issues that need special attention: ο overly complex eligibility schemes and other EU funding conditions that hinder their understanding, management and control and lead to different interpretations; ο procurement rules and procedures that are not always respected; j not always interpreted intentionally; thus lead to higher costs or delays in implementing projects funded by the EU; ο insufficient capacity of national authorities to manage and pay EU funds, which increase the risk of errors and the risk of poor quality of expenditure; ο insufficient coordination of the EU budget and national budgets, lack of funding in the Member States and greater emphasis on compliance with the principles that are not the result; ο high level of commitments that are still funded by the EU budget; ο high level of commitments from the previous expenditure period.
Framework of responsibility for the management and financial control of the European Parliament and of the Council (MS) Audit European Court of Auditors European Commission and Member States' administrative authorities Chart of the analysis of EU rules on public responsibility and control.
Reporting on liability: Transparency of responsibility for the implementation of the EU budget on the basis of agreements Reporting on audit: Independent, objective information Audit mandate on the basis of agreements
Our actions 37 Relations with addressees The value of the Court's contribution to the Court's accounting duties depends to a large extent on the benefits of the Court's main partners in the accountability process from its performance and production.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funds (i.e. the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments).
As part of its strategy for 2013-2017, the Court encouraged the strengthening of its external development monitoring activities and the active development of relations with its partners.
The President and the Members of the Court shall maintain regular contacts with the European Parliament's committees, in particular the Trolls Commission.
In 2014, Mr Caldeira attended two meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and a number of plenary sessions of the European Parliament.
This includes the presentation of the annual work programme and annual reports.
One of the Court's strategic objectives is to strengthen the partnership with its main addressees, including the various committees specialised in the European Parliament and the Council.
In April 2014, the Court gave Ville Itälä a new role as a member responsible for institutional relations, contributing to the strengthening of relations between our institution and other EU institutions, in strategic terms and strengthening the opportunities to achieve a greater impact on our work.
In 2014, other members of the Court had 64 meetings with the Trolli Commission in connection with the Court's annual reports and special reports.
These discussions resulted in reports by individual members of the Committee on Budgetary Control on the Court's special reports, including a draft report on the special reports in connection with the 2013 discharge procedure.
In 2014, the Committee on Budgetary Control started systematically inviting specialised committees to present opinions on our reports at its meetings, thus contributing to the impact of our work.
At the beginning of 2014, the European Parliament adopted a report on the future role of the European Court of Auditors.
The Court welcomes the view expressed in this document that in the broader context of each reform, the challenge of increasing the EU's revitalization obligation should be taken into account.
This concerns in particular the Court's work, its relations with the addressees and the use of resources.
In 2014, the peer review report (see major events) highlighted progress in this respect (see major events).
Our actions 38 In many cases, as part of the implementation of the 2013-2017 strategy, the Court has already launched a number of initiatives to improve, including the improvement of the control and reporting process, and a more flexible organisation of resources.
As a result, more reports have been prepared during the year and the average time needed to develop them has been reduced.
Further increase in efficiency and efficiency in the control process - the internal reform project, launched in 2014, is expected to be launched.
In its resolution of November 2013, the European Parliament asked the Court to provide a comprehensive analysis of the potential savings for the EU budget which would take place if Parliament had one seat, taking into account the savings resulting from less time spent and more efficiency.
The Court presented the results of the work in July 2014 and concluded that the transfer from Strasbourg to Brussels could lead to significant adjustments that have slightly increased as a result of the adjustments as a result of the transfer from Luxembourg to Brussels.
In 2014, the Court continued the regular cooperation with the Council in various forms and activities.
The President of Caldeira presented the annual reports to the ECOFIN Council in December 2014 and the Court was regularly urged to submit special reports to the various Council committees and working parties.
Another priority of the Court is to ensure effective relations with national parliaments.
The permanent committees of national parliaments dealing with European affairs and financial control shall be regularly informed of the Court's activities.
During the year, delegations from several national parliaments visited the Court, including a delegation from the French Senate in July 2014.
In addition, the Court invited the main addresses of the annual seminar of its members in December 2014 in order to present to them its position on the challenges of accountability in the EU.
The Court cooperates with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to combat fraud related to part of the EU budget.
It shall provide OLAF with any information concerning fraud, corruption or other illegal activities that is contrary to the EU's financial interests, which is identified or communicated by third parties during the control activities.
In 2014, the Court informed OLAF of 16 cases of suspected fraud, corruption or fraud.
Our activities 39 Cooperation with other main audit bodies The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Authorities (ORKBs) mainly in the following bodies: • the ORKB Contact Committee of the EU Member States; • the ORKB Network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • the International Organization of International Audit Authorities of Public Finance, in particular the International Organisation of International Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
In September 2014, the Court updated and updated its international cooperation strategy (see box).
EUROSAI Congress, Hague, June 2014
The strategy for international cooperation The Court's cooperation strategy aims to ensure the fullest possible implementation of the EU's public responsibility, in particular through enhanced bilateral and multilateral cooperation with relevant partners, such as the National Supreme Audit Authorities and the International Audit Authorities.
Since the Court's audit duties cover areas where there are impacts (e.g. budgetary management) and global (e.g. climate change) in Europe, our international cooperation activities are even more important than in the past.
As part of its cooperation strategy, the Court has the following priorities: ο Cooperation at EU level within the Contact Committee and individual cooperation with the EFTA Surveillance Committee in the EU Member States will continue to be the main priorities.
In the context of enlargement of the EU, the Court will assist the ORBN of candidate countries and potential candidate countries in their activities to develop competences and expertise. The EU Court, for example INTOSAI, will become more involved in cooperation activities to establish technical standards, as this organisation will be essential to develop expertise and exchange knowledge in the public finance sector. The EU Court, a member of international audit organisations such as INTOSAI, will be involved in cooperation in the establishment of technical standards.
As part of the cooperation strategy, in conjunction with other recent actions such as new high-level conferences and meetings, the Court will contribute to raising awareness of the EU's financial management and to enhancing the EU's financial management requirements.
Our actions 40 Contact Committee of the EU Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities In accordance with the EU Treaty, the European Constitutional Court and the national audit bodies cooperate with full confidence, maintaining their independence.
The Court is actively working with the Contact Committee of the EU Member States within the Contact Committee, including the annual session organised by the various working groups, networks and task forces, in order to address specific issues of common interest.
In October 2013, the Court took over the Presidency of the Contact Committee for a period of one year.
As President, the Court held an annual meeting of the Contact Committee held in October 2014.
The main items on the agenda included a seminar on strengthening cooperation, in particular in the fields related to the Europe 2020 strategy and the Banking Union, reporting on the activities of the Contact Committee and its technical partners, as well as on the audits carried out by the Contact Committee carried out by the EU.
The Court also cooperates bilaterally with CMRs of EU Member States.
A good example of this is the project carried out jointly by the Court and by the ORB of Poland, the Supreme Chamber of Control, under which the Polish ORB controllers actively participated in our work in the control in Poland in the field of the eradication, eradication and monitoring of animal diseases.
In addition, as part of the Chapter on results, the Court cooperates as part of the 2014 Annual Report as part of the 2014 Annual Report on the Europe 2020 Strategy, of 2014.
Meeting of the Contact Committee in Luxembourg on 15 and 17 October 2014
Our actions 41 The Network of the highest audit bodies of candidate countries and potential candidate countries Cooperation between the Court and the Court of Justice of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries is primarily carried out through a network comparable to the Contact Committee1.
In 2014, the Court supported the network in carrying out parallel energy efficiency checks, in particular by offering experts in the field of qualified experts and energy efficiency assessment methods.
In 2014, (in the framework of Objective 1 INTOSAI as a member of the Technical Standards Committee and the Audit Committee, the Technical Standards Assessment Committee and the Financial Reporting Committee, INTOSAI as a member of the INTOSAI Committee for the Development of Competence as a member of the Committee for the Development of Competence. In order for the 3 INTOSAI as a member of the Knowledge Exchange Committee and its Working Group on Environmental Assessment and the Working Party on the Modernisation and Reform of Regulatory Bodies, the Court organised and organised a workshop on "own jurisdiction' in this context as part of the 3 INTOSAI objective. In the context of the Environmental Assessment Committee and the Working Group on Financial Modernisation and Reform of Regulatory Bodies in June 2014.
The Court continued to actively participate in the Eurosey Bureau meetings held in 2011 and in particular in Eurosey held in the IT study and environmental assessment working group, as well as in the monitoring committee for the establishment and operation of an electronic database of good research quality practice, as well as in the evaluation and ethics task force.
The Court also joined the newly created working group on the audit of civil protection assistance.
In the context of the Joint Conferences of the Regional Working Groups INTOSAI, the Court actively participated in the II Joint Conference ASOSAI2 EUROSAI, which focused on the experience gained with the adoption of the ISSAI3 and its impact on the future.
1 In January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and a potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
As of November 2013, Kosovo* has participated in the network as an observer. * This name is without prejudice to the positions on the status of Kosovo and is in line with the UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence.
2 Asian Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions.
3 International standards for the highest control bodies.
EU action 42 Main events International Court International Review 2013 The Court asked the ORKB of France, Germany, Sweden and Germany to carry out a specialist evaluation (peer review) to carry out an economic evaluation.
The peer review was based on the experience of all three partners and was very useful both for the Court and for experts.
The methodology was based on generally recognised criteria for the work of the ORKB and took into account the guidelines adopted in international standards.
In 2014, this review was published on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
Since the last peer review, the Court has made significant progress in 2008.
The Court examined the challenges arising from the complex institutional framework of the EU and took a number of steps to increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of its audits and the quality of the audit reports.
International rules of control encourage international peer reviews.
They enable the highest audit authorities to obtain a voluntary assessment of the performance of their tasks based on international standards.
In 2014, the Court carried out a peer review of the Lithuanian Supreme Audit Authority and was asked to assess the financial control of the jury and to participate in the peer evaluation of the ORKB Spain and Lett-lands.
High-level conference on improving accountability in the EU From left to right: Jacques Sciberras, Head of Cabinet, Kevin Cardiff, Member of the Court, Vítor Caldeira, and Vice-Presidents of Olli Rehn.
In October 2014, the Court organised a high-level conference at which a number of people were invited to ensure that the European Union fulfilled its responsibility for the public resources that are used to achieve its objectives.
The meeting was devoted to errors, oversets and challenges at EU and Member State level, as outlined by the Court in the Landscape analysis on EU legislation on financial accountability and control (see page 35).
The Conference has made it possible for participants, including members or representatives of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Court, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Stability Mechanism, national settlement and science tribunals, to discuss how these arrangements should be developed to respond to developments in economic, budgetary and monetary integration.
The focus was on accountability in the EU, in particular with regard to central banks and supervisors, the structure of the crisis and the post-crisis period, increasing the leverage effect of EU funding through participation in real estate, and increasing the focus on EU performance.
The conference agreed that there was a need for closer cooperation between government authorities, parliaments and auditors at EU and Member State level to help the public understand the benefits of EU action and programmes.
Our actions 43 Strengthening the partnership with the national authorities in Lithuania The High Level Delegation of the Court visited Lithuania in September 2014 in order to strengthen the partnership with the parliament, the government, the central bank and national central banks and to support the best use and control of EU expenditure.
The Court and its partners in Lithuania exchanged priorities for strengthening the EU's reporting obligation and considered how best they can contribute to the added value of EU spending and to help policy makers and Parliament in Lithuania make the best use of the Court's audit results.
During the visit, the delegation of the Court actively participated in a conference of the Lithuanian Parliament, which participated in the challenges of the public sector's calculation and audit.
In addition, the delegation and its partners discussed the issues of financial and economic governance and the benefits of Lithuania's accession to the euro area on 1 January 2015.
Lithuania was the first of many EU Member States to visit the Court in the coming years in order to strengthen the partnership with the national authorities responsible for the management and control of EU funds.
Our management of the 44th College of the Court of Justice belongs to one member of each Member State.
Under the agreement, the term of office of the members of the Court shall be six years, renewable.
Members shall be assigned to one of the five chambers.
The Houses shall adopt audit reports and opinions and take decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues.
In addition, each member shall be responsible for his or her own tasks, which are mainly audit tasks.
The Court's auditors shall carry out the basic audit work and shall be coordinated by the Court's auditors and by the relevant member assisted by the Court's office.
The member then takes note of the report to be adopted by the House and/or the entire College of the Court and then to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties, including the media.
In line with Member States' proposals and after consulting the European Parliament in 2014, the Council of the European Union appointed six new members of the European Court of Auditors.
Four of these members e Alex Brennankmeijer (The Netherlands), Danièle Lamarque (France), Nikolaos Millionis (Greece) and Phil Wynn Owen (The United Kingdom) on 1 January welcome two members of Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany) and Oskar Herics (Austria) on 1 March 2014.
On 23 January 2014, 28 members of the Court of Vítor Caldeira were re-elected as President of the Court for a period of three years.
The President shall be responsible for supervising the implementation of the mandate of the Court and shall represent the institution outside.
Members of the Court at the end of 2014
Meeting of Members of the Court of 27 October 2014
K. KE KE KE KE KE and KE KE KE KIER. K. KALJ CALDEIRA Portugal I - Conservation and management of natural resources Doyen Rasa BUDBERGYT I Lithuania Henri GRETIONIS Greece Oskar HERICS Austria Doyen Milan Martin CVIkl Slovenia Jan KINŠT Czech Republic Kersti KALJULAID Estonia Augustyn KU. KUBIK Polska Kevin CARDIF Ireland Niko Niko Niko Niko Niko K Niko Niko KEINE LEINEL HERICS Austria Doyen Doyen Ladislav BALKO Slovakia Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria George PUFANN MU. PH 2015 2015 OWEN 2015 2015 2015 K.A 2015 2015 K. 2015 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 2015 K. 2015 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 K. 2015 K.
Our management strategy 46 of the Court for 2013-2017: The progress achieved in 2014 was the second year of the Court's implementation of the 2013-2017 strategy.
The aim of this period is to maximise the value of the Court's contribution to the EU's public responsibility.
In order to achieve this objective, the Court mainly seeks to prioritise: ο the focus of the Court's products on improving the EU's responsibility; ο the cooperation with other stakeholders to increase the Court's contribution to the accountability of the EU; ο the further development of the Court as a professional audit body; ο the optimal use of the knowledge and knowledge at the Court's disposal; ο the demonstration of the Court's contribution to its implementation and accountability.
In 2014, the strategy initiated a major change in the Court's organisational structure.
Two internal working groups dealing with the strategy (including the improvement of the audit process including the better definition of tasks and tasks) have presented their results.
This was linked to the European Parliament's report on the future role of the European Court of Auditors and the results of the peer review procedure that the Court has been through.
The various recommendations were summarised in a comprehensive reform proposal that started at the end of 2014 and will run until mid-2016.
In the case of special reports, this means that they should be drawn up within a shorter period of time and, in the case of the annual report, the aim should be to increase the concentration and saving of resources.
The aim is to rebuild the Court into a task-based organisation.
This will enable it to make better use of resources for audits and analyses, which represent the greatest added value for EU citizens.
Our management 47 The Court has been using key performance indicators (ZLIs) since 2008 to inform management of the progress of its objectives, to support the decision-making process and to inform its addressees of the results.
The CLIs reflect the Court's priorities and define its audit performance and responsibilities as a professional audit body.
These indicators shall measure the basic parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, with particular regard to the views of the main recipients and the effectiveness and effectiveness of its use of resources.
For the period covered by the strategy for the period 2013-2017, the CLI was updated.
Assessment by the addressees of the reports The likely impact of the reports The quality and impact of the Court's work is assessed by the Court on the quality and impact of the reports on the basis of the assessments of the addressees and assessments carried out by the experts.
The Court also measures its presence in the media.
The Court asked the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgets of the Council, the main bodies audited to the Commission and the EU Agencies and the EU-ORKB Presidents to the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgetary Control of the Council and the main bodies audited, as well as the EU-ORKB Presidents to assess the relevance and impact of the reports carried out in 2014 from the most relevant to the most important level.
2 100 % very low 13 56 25 4 53 25 9 0 % 20 % very high 40 % 60 % 80 % very low The answer shows that 94 % of the most important addresses evaluate the value of the reports of the European Court of Auditors as useful for their work (2013: 98 %). (2013: 94 %) 91 % consider the Court's work to be effective (2013: 94 %).
Our management of 48 expert reviews Every year independent external experts review the content and presentation of the Court's sample of reports for quality assessment. In 2014, verifiers assessed eight special reports and the 2013 annual reports.
Quality assessment - the aspects of reports on a four-stage scale have a significant impact on the impact of the four-stage assessment (1) on high-quality aspects (4).
Reviews by experts of the Court's reports The results, which have been very stable in recent years, show the satisfactory quality of the Court's reports.
100% 90 80% 80 % 70% 60 % 50 % 40% 40% 20% 20% 20% 0% 4 3 2 1 0 2, 8 3.0 3, 0 3, 1 2011 2013 2014 Monitoring the recommendations The recommendations in the audit reports are the key tool for the Court to improve the EU's financial management.
Some recommendations can be quickly implemented and others require more time due to their complexity.
At the end of 2014, 69% of the almost six hundred recommendations of the Court in 2011-2014 were implemented.
This represents a 60% increase compared to 2013 in the transposition rate for the 2010-2013 recommendations.
91 %65 %58 %60 %2014 2013 2012 2011 Quality rating
Our management 49 The media presence of the Court's Media Index reflects the Court's media impact.
It refers to the strategic objective of raising the Court's awareness of its products and to its findings concerning the checks and conclusions of the checks.
In 2014, the Court identified more than 5100 online online documents relating to its special reports, the 2013 annual reports, and the institutions in general.
40% of these concerned audit reports, while the other articles referred to the institution and its work in general.
More than 800 articles have been published in the framework of the European Court of Auditors' special report on the implementation of the work programme of the European Court of Auditors, the Court plans to carry out audits and other tasks in the framework of its annual work programme and monitors the progress achieved in the course of the year.
In 2014, the Court carried out 95% of the tasks provided for in the work programme (90% in 2013).
While the work on the annual reports and the special annual reports was carried out in accordance with the timetable, the special reports covered 85% (2013: 70%).
Economic audits not completed in 2014 were carried over to 2015.
Media reference topics 29 11 60 0 % 20% 20% Special reports 40 % 60% Annual reports 2013 80% The Court generally assesses the efficiency and efficiency of resource use depending on the extent to which it is able to implement its work programme, to carry out audits in good time and to ensure the competence of the staff.
Implementation of the ECA work programme for 2014 100% 80% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% of annual reports Special reports Annual reports Other tasks Total 100% 100% 95% 85%
Our management 50 Preparation of special reports In order for the special reports of the Court to have an impact, they must be presented in due course.
In recent years, the Court has reduced the time needed to carry out the audit.
The strategy for 2013-2017 aims to further improve this strategy and its results should be measurable in the coming years.
The period for examining special reports prepared in 2014 The Court drew up 24 special reports in 2014, 42% of which (2013: 37%) were completed within the 18-month period which the Court wished to comply with.
On average, it took 19 months to prepare special reports adopted in 2014 (2013): 20 months.
100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20% 20% 20% 0% 10-18 months 10 SB 18-26 months 13 SB 4% longer than 26 months 1 SB 54 % 42 % Vocational training According to guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court seeks to provide inspectors with an average of 40 hours (5 days) of vocational training (without language courses).
The European Council adopted a decision on the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme under the co-operation programme.
For 6,4 target ≥ 5 days 5.2 5.8 The inclusion of the language course in 2014, in 2014, one examiner introduced an average of 10 days of training.
Support for control actions Human resources Allocation of human resources In view of the difficult situation of public finances in Europe, the Court continued to reduce employment by 1% per year by five years (2013-2017), in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement of December 2013 on budgetary discipline and financial management.
In 2014, from 891 to 882 temporary officials and temporary staff (excluding contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees) were reduced to 882 temporary officials and temporary staff.
A total of 561 posts were allocated to 561 persons assigned to the inspection (including 113 employees in the members' office).
In 2014, with the objective of the best use of resources, all actions re-identified and extended the capacity to increase efficiency by simplifying procedures.
In 2014, the relocation of staff from support staff to the control services was also continued.
However, this was compensated by the transfer of certain support services from the members' offices to administrative support and the transfer of the Department of Communication and Institutional Relations to the services of the President.
51 Recruitment The Court's staff has extensive academic and professional experience and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's results.
The Court's employment policy is consistent with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the EU institutions bring together both officials and officials with fixed-term contracts.
In 2014, the internal selection procedure for grade AST 1 and the selection procedure were carried out.
In addition, the Court made 77 traineeships available to graduates of higher education for a period of between three and five months per year.
In 2014, the Court had 78 staff, including 31 officials, 29 temporary staff, 13 contract staff and five seconded national experts.
Since 2011, the number of job vacancies has been almost 3% (on 31 December 2014 the number of job vacancies has been 27).
Division of the Court's posts as at 31 December 2014 2014 2014 of the Audit Services 573 576 561 Translation 143 147 141 Administration 139 137 141 Services President 32 31 39 Total 887 891 882
Supporting control measures 52 Balance between men and women Like other EU institutions, the Court applies a policy of equal opportunities in the field of human resources management and recruitment.
Following a steady increase in women's participation in the years, the Court has achieved, among its employees, a balanced share of 50% of the share of men and women in each of them.
The graph below shows the level of responsibility of men and women on 31 December 2014, which has changed slightly in recent years.
Percentage of men and women by employee category in 2014 100 % 80% 60% 60% 40 % 20% 0% of assistants - women's secretary - men's management 66% 41% 51% 31% 69 % 34%
Support for the examination activities of 53 managers by nationality and sex on 31 December 2014. Women Men's Nationality1 Directors Directors Division 4 Belgium 1 3 1 Bulgaria 1 1 1 Czech Republic 1 Denmark 1 3 4 Germany 1 6 1 Estonia 1 3 Ireland 1 2 2 Greece 1 2 3 4 Spain 1 6 8 France 1 7 1 Croatia 1 1 2 Italy 3 Cyprus 1 Latvia 1 1 Lithuania 1 1 Luxembourg 1 Hungary 1 1 Malta 1 1 Netherlands 2 1 Austria 1 Poland 1 1 2 1 Portugal 3 1 Romania 1 Slovenia 1 Slovakia 1 Finland 1 Sweden 1 8 United Kingdom 4 5 21 46 Total 11 56 1 In the protocol for the Member States.
Support for control activities 54 The Equal Opportunities Action Plan aims at achieving a balanced participation of women and men at all levels of the Court.
After the last recruitment waves 48% of AD 5 to AD staff are 8 women (increase compared to 43% in 2009).
Age profile The age profile of active staff employed on 31 December 2014 indicates that 53% of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger.
20-24 0,1% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0,3% Since in the next five to ten years it is expected to be reborn in high management positions, the growing percentage of women in the AD functional group will in the future be in management positions.
27 (40%) of 67 directors and heads of departments are 55 years of age or older.
In the next five to ten years, when they retire, they will be renewed in higher management positions.
2.4% 10.3% 19.2% 21.9% 18.1% 14.3% 3.9% 9.4%
Support for control activities 55 Vocational training support services In order to develop the Court as a professional audit body and to make the best use of the knowledge it has and the knowledge and expertise it has, it is necessary to continuously train the staff to keep up with professional development and acquire new skills.
In 2014, the Court's staff (researchers and other staff) completed an average of eight days of vocational training.
The participation of language courses in vocational training continues to decline.
In 2014, they accounted for 43% of the total number of training days (compared with 46% in 2013).
In order to make the best use of available resources and technologies, the Court has been offering tailor-made e-learning courses and training to its employees since 2014, in the form of integrated training, in the form of e-learning, in which the participants will receive general e-learning training on the Internet before participation.
In addition, as part of the objective of exchanging internal information and information on the progress of public sector audits, internal and external experts' presentations on changes in audit and other relevant fields of information and information on audit progress in the public sector continued to be organised.
Written translation is an action to support checks to enable the Court to carry out its mission and to achieve its communication objectives to ensure its results in the languages of EU citizens.
In 2014, total translation volume increased by 4 % more than in 2013.
More than 98% of the translations were completed in time.
In addition to normal translation work, the Translation Directorate continued the direct participation of translators in the Court's main office: translators provided linguistic support during 40 audit visits across the EU and in the preparation of audit reports.
In 2014, the Translation Directorate focused mainly on quality assurance.
To this end, the first quality assurance manual in the field of translations was adopted and a quality assurance system was developed for customers.
In order to improve service efficiency, a review and optimisation of the translation process was carried out and process automation was started in cooperation with the Directorate for Information Technology.
Support for control activities 56 All processes related to the development and sharing of tools were carried out with safety and continuity: for example, in 2014 a comprehensive test was carried out to restart the new K3 building after the collapse of the IT systems (disaster recovery) and the central IT components (e.g. the start of migration of the Court's e-mail system) were modernised.
The management and infrastructure of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services shall be designed to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to carry out its mission and pursue its strategic objectives, and to ensure that the necessary internal control, internal control and audit mechanisms are available to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2014, the Directorate continued to focus on improving the efficiency and efficiency of its activities.
An environmental management system is currently being developed for the Court, which is in line with the principles of the Community environmental management and audit system (EMAS), to be approved by the end of 2016.
In 2014, a number of actions were successfully implemented to deliver concrete results and to demonstrate the Court's commitment to environmental protection, such as: • the adoption of environmental policy; • carrying out environmental analysis and carrying out environmental compliance measures; • increasing the number of environmental awareness campaigns for workers from four in 2013 to eight in 2014; • obtaining Breeam's environmental certification (the most important method for designing and evaluating sustainable buildings in the world) in building K3 and maintaining a mark of compliance with best practices in waste management; • promoting the sustainable transport of workers by providing a new bicycle space and a bicycle changing room, by installing a charger for electric cars and by.
Support for control activities 57 The Court's financial information is financed by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget accounts for approximately 0.093 % of total EU expenditure and 1.58% of total administrative expenditure.
In 2014, the total total available budget was 98.8% compared to 92% in 2013.
The increase in the performance ratio is mainly due to better estimates and planning of expenditure under Title 1 in which the average performance ratio was 98.8%.
For Title 2, the average performance rate was 98,4 %.
Budget 2014 Title 1 - Members and staff of institutions 10 - Members of institutions 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 15 190 93 180 4 191 3 350 2 629 118 540 2 564 7 199 1 543 552 703 2 397 14 958 133 498 14 554 92 774 4 113 3 119 2 592 117 152 2 541 7 199 1 541 532 649 2 264 14 726 131 878 96 % 99 % 98% 99% 99% 99% 96% 92% 92% 98% 99% (1 000 EUR) 14 420 92 745 4 7071 2 641 1 957 115 834 3 581 686 450 466 1 316 8 329 124 163 162 - business trips 20 - Construction Title 1 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - services and related costs 23 - Current expenses for services 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 2 Title 2 European Court of Auditors Total Payments 1 original budget and costs related to buildings, 686 61616 16 162 - Travel - Current expenses 20 - Total expenditure - Expenditure 245
Support for control actions 58 Budget 2015 Budget 2015 Budget 2015 decreased by 0.4% compared to 2015 compared to 2014.
Budget 2015 Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution2 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and services 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 2 669 118 381 3 080 7 152 785 426 717 2 365 14 525 132 906 15 175 93 180 4 096 3700 2 612 118 763 3 350 7 110 808 438 768 2 261 14 735 133 498 budget 1 162 missions 20 - Buildings Titles 1 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on staff of the institution 2015 (EUR 1 000) Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various expenditure on equipment 210 - Processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Expenditure on services 23 - Expenditure on staff 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Title 2 Title 2 Court of Auditors Total 1 The data contained in the table are in accordance with the budget initially established.
2 In line with the Commission's proposal that expenditure relating to pensions of former members of all EU institutions should be transferred to the Commission section where expenditure on pensions of former members of the Court is already included in the 2015 budget.
Supporting control activities 59 Auditing and clearing The Court's internal audit The internal auditor shall advise the Court on risk control issues, issuing opinions on the quality of management and control systems and recommendations on improving the conditions for the management of operations and the promotion of sound financial management.
The internal auditor shall also support the work of the external auditor responsible for certifying the Court's accounts.
The internal auditor informed the Court of the results of the audits carried out in 2014, the findings, recommendations and actions taken on the basis of those recommendations.
The Court shall report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal auditor's work.
In October 2014, the Court's internal audit was certified in accordance with the definition of internal audit, code of conduct and standards established by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IAA).
This certification was the result of a comprehensive assessment of the quality of the Court's internal audit carried out by an external expert at the request of the internal auditor and of the Internal Audit Committee at the request of Deloitteput and met international standards of professional practice for internal audit in IIA.
The Court's external audit The Court's annual accounts shall be audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same principles of transparency and accountability as those of the individuals it has carried out.
Pricewaterhouse-Coopers SRL... on the Court of Auditors' accounts for the financial year 2013.
An independent auditor's opinion on the annual accounts as of 31 December 2013, the results and the cash flows of the European Court of Auditors at the end of that period, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Eura-m) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and Commission Regulation (EU) No 318/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation on the general budget of the Union on the use of resources and control procedures: in this report, it follows that, in all relevant respects and taking into account the above assessment criteria, the financial resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes, and • that the control procedures that have not been implemented have not been used in order to ensure that our financial actions are in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
Declaration by 60 of the authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, as authorising officer by delegation, • • - that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and that the appropriations made available for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes provided for and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures put in place provide adequate assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the sound management of fraud or fraud and that the costs and benefits of control are adequate.
This security shall be based on an assessment of the signed and available information, such as the reports and declarations signed by the subdelegates, internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's opinions on the previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 February 2015.
EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF INVESTIGATION DE 2015 Activity report
02 EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT of charge 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorseca Many information about the European Union can be found on the Internet, on the Internet (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2016 Print ISBN 978-92-872-4091-0 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-4084-2 EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-4066-8 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/880265 doi:10.2865/420922 doi:10.2865/528320 QJ-AA-16-001-DE-C QJ-AA-16-001-DE-N QJ-AA-16-001-DE-E © European Union, 2016 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors HUTER EU FINANCE
The European Court of Auditors 02 The Court of Auditors is an independent external audit body of the European Union based in Luxembourg.
It has 28 audit and administration members from each EU Member State and employs about 900 employees from all EU Member States.
Since its establishment in 1977, the Court has contributed to improving financial management in the EU and to improving accounting.
The Court's tasks are to verify whether EU funds have been correctly booked, whether they have been adopted and used in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations and whether the funds have been used optimally.
It warns against threats, provides security and guidance to policy makers in the EU, how to improve public finance management and ensure that European citizens know how to make full use of their funds.
In its audit work and other activities, the Court contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and stability of the European Union.
Heading 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 Preface of the President 5 2015 at a glance 5 Our activities 5 Our management 6-40 Our activities 6-9 Audits 10-13 Annual reports 14 Special Annual Reports 15-33 Special Reports 34 Reviews 35-36 High-level events and conferences 37-38 Relations with addressees 39-40 Cooperation with the highest audit authorities 41-49 Our management 41-42 College of the Court 43-45 Court Strategy 2013-2017 46-49 Measurement of achievements 50-59 Support with control 50-53 Human resources 53-55 Support services 56-57 Financial information 58-59 Control and accountability 60 Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation
The President's introduction 04 Dear Reader, to which this activity report refers in 2015, the European Union has again addressed the major challenges and, in particular, the creation of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) and the introduction of a single resolution mechanism for banks in the euro area, there has been a significant development in the management, policy and financial management of the EU.
Both these and other changes have led to new audit tasks of the Court.
In 2015, we re-examined the activities of EU institutions and other bodies and all EU funds paid to Member States, non-EU countries, international organisations and other beneficiaries.
In accordance with our obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we have prepared annual reports on the general budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund and specific annual reports on the accounts of more than 50 EU agencies and other bodies.
Furthermore, we have prepared 25 special reports on a number of topics, the results of which are summarised in this activity report.
We would like to draw your attention in particular to two specific reports: our report on the Emissions Trading Scheme, which shows that our actions go beyond purely financial issues, as well as our report on financial assistance to countries in difficulty, which forms part of a series of new special reports on financial and economic governance.
In addition, last year, we issued eight opinions on new or revised EU legislation with significant financial implications, including an opinion on the EFSI Regulation.
In order for our work to be successful, we need to communicate the information gathered to stakeholders both at EU level and at national level.
During the year, we have deepened our cooperation with the European Parliament and with the Council of the European Union, and we have deepened our cooperation with our key partners in ensuring the EU's commitment to the fight against fraud.
The results of our audits have been presented by an increasing number of specialised committees of these institutions, and we have taken into account their concerns when planning future audits.
In addition, the Court's members have made high-level visits to strengthen their partnership with national authorities, parliaments and audit bodies.
In 2015, we organised two significant conferences: one in Brussels on EU energy security and one in Luxembourg on the future of development aid in the context of the new UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We have also prepared a wide-ranging internal reform in order to respond better to ongoing changes in the European Union.
This report presents some important changes in our relations with stakeholders, our research and our resources.
In addition, you will receive important information about our management of human resources, finance and services, as well as about the results of our internal and external controls last year, as well as about the latest annual discharge procedure.
I hope that this report will provide useful and interesting information on the Court's activities in 2015, in which we want to do our job to improve the financial management of the EU, improve accountability and transparency and protect the financial interests of EU citizens.
2015 at a glance 05 Our management • Annual Reports on the EU general budget • and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2014, containing a basic statement of assurance and audit results. • 52 Special Annual Reports, containing the Court's opinions on the audits carried out by the various EU agencies and other institutions and two summary reports. An internal reform has been carried out to improve our control and reporting procedures and to allow greater flexibility in the management of our resources. • 25 Special Reports on specific management and budgetary issues, including the emission trading system, youth employment programmes and assistance during the financial crisis. • • Eight Opinions on new and revised EU legal acts and other decisions affecting the financial management, from the proposed regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments to the revised Regulation on a single management mechanism. • Meetings, seminars and conferences with our addressees, including two high-level conferences on EU control, • Opinions on security of energy supply and development aid, and other decisions on financial management, from the proposed regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments to the revised Regulation on the security of the EU to the two conferences, the two addresses on the internal restructuring mechanism. •
In terms of human resources recruitment and management, we have continued to have a policy of equal opportunity. • In terms of integration of IT systems, audit management and audit documentation, we have made considerable progress and we have made available information on audit on mobile devices. In the buildings of the European Court of Auditors in Luxembourg.
Our activities 06 Audits Our audit reports and opinions are an important part of the EU's responsibility chain, because they are used to hold EU financial management entities responsible for opinions, especially in the framework of the annual discharge procedure for the implementation of the EU budget discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget.
They are primarily the European Commission, as well as other EU institutions and bodies.
In shared management areas, Member States also play an important role, as in agricultural and cohesion expenditure.
Our three main products are: • Annual reports mainly containing the results of audits of accounts and compliance checks on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund (EDF), but also on aspects of financial management and performance aspects.
Other reports should be accompanied by specific annual reports for EU agencies, decentralised agencies and joint undertakings. • Special reports presenting the results of selected cost-effectiveness audits or compliance with the rules for specific policies or policies, or for budgetary or management issues. • Opinions on new or amended legal acts affecting financial management and other products on the basis of analyses carried out at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative. • Opinions on new or amended legal acts affecting financial management and other products based on analysis, or at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative.
We are trying to manage our resources in such a way as to ensure a proper balance between our different activities while at the same time ensuring adequate coverage of the different areas of the EU budget and ensuring adequate results.
In 2015, we used a significant part of our resources to prepare annual statements of assurance, which were then presented in our annual reports.
The work underlying the Statement of Assurance covers two aspects for which, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we must issue an annual audit opinion: the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
Furthermore, we take into account, as far as possible, the work of other auditors (see the audit section of the EU agencies on page 14) and the management declarations in the form of annual work reports of the Directors-General of the Commission.
In addition to the checks required by law, we choose, at our discretion, specific expenditures or policy areas on the basis of criteria such as the risk of irregularities or insufficient results, the potential for improvement and the public interest.
This issue is completely independent, but we take into account the views of our address circle.
In 2015 we prepared 25 special reports, which are in particular the result of our economic control.
A summary of the special reports is presented in this activity report (pages 15-33).
In 2015, we issued eight opinions on proposals for new or revised provisions and regulations (p. 34).
In particular, we pay attention to our opinion on EFSI to highlight both the subject and the impact of our opinions.
All audit reports and opinions are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our activities 07 Audit reports and opinions 2013-2015 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total 91 2 Total 89 2 52 25 10* Total 77 2 50 19 6 51 24 14 * Annual reports Special reports Special opinions and other statements of eight opinions and two summary reports on EU agencies and joint undertakings 2013 2014 2015
Our activities 08 Audit visits in 2015 While most audit work carried out at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also carried out audit visits to the authorities of the Member States, to other beneficiaries of EU funds within and outside the European Union (including in the case of organisations involved in Union funds, such as the European Investment Bank's regional offices in Kenya and Uganda) and to other EU institutions, agencies and bodies.
As a result of these visits, we received direct proof of control from those involved in the granting, management, collection and payment of EU funds as well as from the final beneficiaries.
Our teams of controllers usually consist of two to three controllers, and the duration of the inspection visit may be several days and several weeks.
The frequency and intensity of control activities in individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the type of control and, where appropriate, on the selection of the sample.
Therefore, the number of inspection visits may vary depending on the country and year.
In the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the highest audit authorities in the Member States visited.
In 2015, the Court's auditors transferred 4 310 days to on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU in order to obtain evidence of annual reports and selected audit tasks (special reports).
In addition, they devoted a lot of time to the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as to decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU.
On-the-spot checks took less days than in 2014.
This is due to more efficient working procedures and increasing use of technologies such as secure data and documents exchange and video conferencing.
Detecting fraud Although our research is not specifically designed to detect fraud, our research is sometimes about cases where we suspect irregularities or fraud.
The Court cooperates with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to combat fraud against the EU budget.
Any suspicion of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity to the detriment of the EU's financial interests, which appear during our audit work, we will hand it over to OLAF.
OLAF will then continue the investigation which will decide on possible investigations and, where appropriate, cooperate with the authorities of the Member States.
In 2015, we handed over 27 cases of suspected fraud to OLAF (2014: 16).
Our actions 09 days on the spot in 2015 Italy Germany Poland Spain France United Kingdom Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Netherlands Finland Czech Republic Lithuania Ireland Denmark Slovakia Sweden Slovenia Belgium Cyprus Latvia Estonia Luxembourg Switzerland Azerbaijan Egypt Uganda Serbia China Cuba Myanmar Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Eritrea Ghana Tanzania Norway Haiti Papua New Guinea Rwanda Montenegro Ukraine Ethiopia Kenya Democratic Republic of the Congo Moldova Total 4 310 0 50 100 150 250 250 300 350 450 500
Our activities 10 Annual Reports for the financial year 2014 Most of our financial audits and compliance audits for 2015 have been devoted to the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2014.
The 2014 Annual Report, which was published on 10 November 2015, was presented to our addressee, including the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the European Union (Ecofin and Financial Councils), national Parliaments and governments, as well as to the media.
The main objective of our annual report is to assist the European Parliament, the Council and the citizens in assessing the quality of the EU's financial management by presenting the findings and conclusions.
In the 2014 Annual Report, we have ensured the use of EU funds in the financial year in question and we stress the areas where the risk of misuse of EU funds was greatest.
In addition, we analyse the causes of errors and make useful and cost-effective recommendations on possible improvements.
We have revised the structure of our annual report for the financial year 2014 to make this report clearer.
The titles of these chapters correspond to the headings of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
The main element of the report is still the statement of assurance in which we deliver an opinion on the reliability of the EU accounts and the compliance with the rules on revenue and expenditure.
In addition, we have carried out a detailed evaluation of all the main areas of EU activity and have provided extensive information on budgetary and financial management.
The report also contains information on the implementation of the EU budget and on the Commission's reporting, in particular on progress towards the Europe 2020 objectives.
President Vítor Caldeira presented the European Parliament with the annual report of the European Court of Auditors for 2014 of EUR 142.5 billion in 2014 = almost EUR 300 per citizen.
Our actions 11 The basic statements in the 2014 Annual Report are that the European Court of Auditors calls for a new approach to EU investment and expenditure. EU legislation for 2014 confirms the credibility of the EU accounts.In 2014, the revenue was legal and correct.. in 2014 the payments are largely affected by errors.
Conclusions and recommendations in 2014 The EU Annual Report was drafted in a manner consistent with international principles and provides a true and reliable picture of the situation.
For this reason, we could once again deliver an unlimited opinion on their credibility.
However, we have issued a wrong opinion on the regularity of payments. the estimated error rate for 2014 is 4,4% of payments in 2014; this level is close to the error rate in 2013 (4,5%) and is constantly above the materiality level of 2%. In 2014 the estimated error rate for expenditure managed in shared management with the Member States and expenditure managed directly by the Commission was equal to 4,6%).
The greatest error rate has been set for expenditure in economic, social and territorial cohesion, for 5.7% and for 5.6% for competitiveness for growth and growth and employment, for 5.6% for social and territorial cohesion expenditure.
With regard to administrative expenditure, the lowest estimated error rate (0.5%) was established. With regard to administrative expenditure, there is a clear link between expenditure types and error rates.
The estimated error rate for reimbursement schemes (5.5%) for which the EU reimburses the eligible costs of actions based on the cost statements prepared by the beneficiaries is twice the estimated error rate for payment entitlements schemes (2.7%) for which payments are non-refundable but are subject to certain conditions.
Without these measures, the estimated overall error rate would be 5,5 %.
The Commission needs further improvement in the risk assessment and the consequences of remedial actions.............................................. and..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Commission should take action to address this persistent problem.
In partnership agreements and programmes, Member States do not sufficiently take into account the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Therefore, the Commission can only partially monitor the results and the contribution of the EU budget to the Europe 2020 strategy, and managing EU expenditure is crucial in the upcoming mid-term review of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020.
It is important that the Commission examines as soon as possible the areas where the high level of error is maintained, assess the potential for reducing these error rates, placing greater emphasis on the results of expenditure.
Our actions 12 Control of transactions in specific areas of EU expenditure - Results for 2014. Natural resources expenditure Economic, social and territorial cohesion Competitiveness for growth and jobs in Europe in the world Administration Proven population and estimated error rate 5.6 % 2.7 % 0.5 % 3.6 % 5.7 % Conclusion of controls EUR 57.5 billion EUR 13.0 billion EUR 7.4 billion EUR 8,8 billion EUR 0 20 40 60 billion EUR The table is presented on the EU 2014 website (eca.europa.eu/en/euaudit Increasing Increasing for 2014).
Our activities 13 Annual Report on the European Development Fund (EDF) for 2014................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The EDFs are financed by the Member States and managed by the European Investment Bank outside the EU budget by the European Commission and by the European Investment Bank for some EU aid measures in some cases.
Their revenue was not significantly affected by errors, while the estimated error rate in payments was 3.8%.
As in previous years, shortcomings in ex ante controls have been identified.
The estimated error rate is due to errors in respect of non-compliance with public procurement rules and to the lack of evidence to justify expenditure in almost two thirds.
Our annual report on the EDF will be published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our actions 14 Special Annual Reports for the financial year 2014 Total for 2014 for all EU agencies, bodies and joint enterprises, around EUR 4 billion has been allocated.
EU agencies, other bodies and joint undertakings perform specific tasks on behalf of the EU and are established in different EU Member States.
They operate in many areas such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and transport, as well as have their own mandate, management, director, staff and budget.
In 2015 we prepared 52 special annual reports for the financial year 2014.
They concern 41 decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other EU bodies, eight European Joint Research Undertakings, European Schools, the Galileo Joint Undertaking in the decommissioning and communication infrastructure of Sisnet.
In addition, we have published two summaries of the results of our audits in this area (one summary on EU agencies and other bodies and the other on joint enterprises).
These reports have been submitted to the President of the European Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, the Council for General Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Affairs of the Council.
In 2014, each annual accounts of 33 decentralised EU agencies and other bodies were independently audited by a private audit firm for the first time.
In drawing up our opinions on our audit accounts, we have taken into account these audit work and the actions taken by the audited entities on the basis of the audit findings.
The accounts of other agencies and joint ventures have been fully audited by us.
In 2014, we considered the accounting of all agencies, other institutions and joint enterprises to be reliable.
The processes were legal and correct, except Artemis (built-in ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and ECSEL (elements and electronic systems).
Overall, the agencies continued to improve their procedures by taking corrective action in response to our comments in previous years.
Our special annual reports and two summaries of the results of our audits on agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings for 2014 are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
52 special annual reports on EU agencies, other bodies and joint undertakings established throughout Europe, based in Europol, The Hague, the Netherlands.
Our activities 15 Special Reports developed in 2015. In addition to our annual reports and special annual reports, we publish special reports, covering the results of the performance and compliance checks in the various areas of the budget or in the various areas of the management of our elections, throughout the year.
When selecting and organising these control tasks, we try to achieve the maximum effect and use our resources in the best way possible.
Our profitability checks often cover several financial years and their subject is complex, so their completion may last longer than a year.
In 2015, the special reports focused in particular on the following issues: the EU's overall objective of creating added value and growth and the EU's response to global challenges such as the sustainability of public finances, the environment and climate change.
For each heading corresponding to the headings of the multiannual financial framework, 25 special reports prepared in 2015 were briefly presented.
Main steps of the chosen economic assessment or compliance Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the response of the audited entity.
02 A clear and orderly presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
Developing recommendations.
determining the adequacy and feasibility of the proposed study.
Identify the scope, objectives, approaches, methods and timetable of controls.
Our actions 16 100 80 60 40 20 0 Competitiveness for growth and jobs EUR 143 billion 13% Smart and inclusive growth In the Intelligent and Inclusive growth section in the Intelligent Growth section, the spending equivalent section of the EU budget includes most of the expenditure.
This area comprises two sub-headings: competitiveness for growth and jobs: economic, social and territorial cohesion.
The Competitiveness Sub-heading for Growth and Jobs and Jobs and Financial Resources for Trans-European Energy, Transport and Telecommunications Networks, Enterprise Development, Research and Innovation, Education and Training, Social Policy, etc. The expenditure planned for 2014-2020 represents 13 percent of the total EU budget for the programming period, i.e. EUR 143 billion.
A budget of EUR 15.7 billion was made available for 2015. • Inland navigation in Europe: no significant improvement in the share of transport and navigation conditions since 2001 (No 1/2015), the detailed report examines whether the projects co-financed by the EU budget have effectively contributed to the share of inland waterway transport in inland waterway transport and to the improvement of the quality of inland waterway transport and whether EU inland waterway strategies were consistent and based on appropriate and comprehensive analyses.
Projects co-financed by the EU have not been successfully implemented as an alternative to road transport or an improvement in the capacity to sail could not be implemented effectively.
Although the Commission considered inland navigation a priority, the Member States have given little attention to inland waterways.
There is no coherent overall strategy between Member States, combined with the main maritime corridors, and the maintenance of river resources, as well as political and environmental considerations, have not been sufficiently addressed in the EU strategies.
Member States should prioritise inland waterway transport projects that have the greatest and most direct benefits and the Commission should focus its resources on projects where advanced bottlenecks are available.
Between 2007 and 2013, grants from the TEN-T programme, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund amounted to EUR 1.3 billion.
Our actions 17 • Is EU financial support best suited to the needs of micro-entities?
(No 8/2015) The special report examines whether the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Progress Microfinance Facility meet the needs of micro-entities.
The auditors found that programming and planning of financial assistance from the ESF was weak and that the implementation of the tasks was not adequately and reliably monitored.
Neither the Commission nor the Member States had comparative information on the administrative costs incurred by the Member States and the financing mechanisms.
These circumstances may undermine the effectiveness of EU financial support to micro-enterprises.
Member States should assess needs when developing financial instruments and developing operational programmes, including financial support to micro-entities by the EU.
The Commission should make the use of ESF financial instruments by Member States conditional on the existence of sound risk management systems.
In the case of microfinance, loans are typically less than EUR 25 000 and often less than EUR 10,000.
The total demand for funding in EU Member States is estimated to be over EUR 12 billion.
The examples mentioned in the report include: the provision of EUR 5 000 for the development of urban cinema and the provision of EUR 9 500 for the development of the playground and clothing store. • Improving security of energy supply through the development of the internal energy market: this special report addresses whether the implementation of internal energy market policies and energy infrastructure expenditure in the EU have effectively contributed to the benefits of security of energy supply.
The audit showed that energy infrastructure in Europe is not yet fully integrated and is therefore currently not ensuring effective security of energy supply.
The Commission should therefore identify energy infrastructure in the EU which is not actively used and work with the Member States to overcome barriers to its use for the internal energy market.
The Commission should also consider new ways of making energy available to customers from another Member State from one Member State.
The internal energy market aims at enabling the free movement and trade of natural gas and electricity across the EU.
Within the EU budget, EUR 3.7 billion has been allocated to the financing of energy infrastructure for the period 2007-2013 and a further EUR 7.4 billion is expected for the period 2014-2020.
However, the report underlines that the EU's objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 has not been achieved.
Our actions 18 Economic, social and territorial cohesion Smart and inclusive economic growth The sub-heading of economic, social and territorial efficiency in regional policy, in order to support the least developed EU countries and regions, aims to increase the competitiveness and cooperation of all regions.
The planned expenditure for cohesion policy 2014-2020 represents 34% of the EU budget for the entire programming period, i.e. EUR 367 billion.
100 80 60 40 20 0 367 billion EUR 34% • Efforts should be stepped up to address public procurement problems in EU cohesion expenditure (No 10/2015) in a special report on assessing whether the Commission and the Member States are taking appropriate and effective action to address public procurement errors in cohesion policy.
The audit showed that there are still widespread procurement problems across the EU for public authorities.
Although the Commission and the Member States have started to address this issue, much remains to be done.
Serious errors have led to a lack of fair competition and a lack of contracts for the best tenderers.
The systematic analysis is very limited and lacks sufficiently accurate, reliable and consistent data on the nature and scale of errors.
Where the situation does not improve by the end of 2016, it is recommended to suspend payments to the Member States concerned for the period 2014-2020.
Between 2007 and 2013, € 349 billion was spent on regional policy expenditure to be paid through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund and the European Social Fund.
A significant proportion of these funds are issued through public procurement.
The errors were noted in around 40% of the projects that the Court verified for its annual accounts for the 2009-2013 financial years for public procurement.
Our actions 19 • EU funding of urban waste water treatment facilities in the Danube basin: Member States need further support in the implementation of the EU waste water treatment policy objectives (No 2/2015) for the implementation of the EU waste water treatment policy objectives (No 22/2015) The specific report assesses the effectiveness of Member States' assistance in the Danube basin with the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund in the implementation of the EU waste water treatment policy objectives.
The audit showed that although spending programmes in the EU have contributed significantly to the progress made in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, there have been delays in compliance with the rules and the use of available EU funding in all countries.
While waste water in these countries was usually properly cleaned, in some cases treatment with sewage sludge and rainwater leaks was insufficient.
One third of the installations were too extensive and potentially unable to survive in the long run.
These countries have slowly benefited from the available EU funds, which threatened to lose EU funds or to have to obtain additional funds from national budgets.
The Commission should tighten up reporting requirements and Member States should lay down rules to ensure rapid connection to public sewage channels.
The Commission and the Member States should establish criteria for all types of use of sewage sludge and ensure reliable monitoring of pollution.
The Danube basin area is the largest access area in Europe.
The EU contribution to waste water treatment projects in the four Member States audited • in the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods amounted to EUR 7.9 billion. Water quality in the Danube basin: progress in the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, but further action is still needed (No 23/2015) in this special report. The implementation of the Water Framework Directive by the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia is examined whether the implementation of the Water Framework Directive by the Czech Republic has contributed to improving the quality of surface water in the Danube basin.
The audit showed that few improvements have been introduced since 2004.
The main reason for the limited progress was that the Member States' plans were not ambitious enough.
Targeted measures were missing in relation to the water bodies with inadequate quality status.
In addition, shortcomings in monitoring systems have led to a lack of data on both the type of contamination and the sources of contamination that have led to a negative assessment of the state of aquatic organisms.
In addition, Member States have removed a significant number of water bodies without sufficient justification for relevant deadlines.
Between 2007 and 2013, Member States in the Danube basin received €6.35 billion from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund for waste water treatment.
During the same period, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, received €6.39 billion to compensate farmers for agri-environmental measures.
Our actions 20 • EU Youth Guarantee: Our actions are starting, but the risk of implementation is predictable (No 3/2015) in this special report the Commission is examining whether it has duly supported the Member States in creating the Youth Guarantee and whether the risk of implementation is possible.
The audit identified three risks that could hinder the effective implementation of the Youth Guarantee: the adequacy of the overall funding, the definition of a high-quality job position, and the way the Commission monitors the Youth Guarantee and reports on the results.
The auditors concluded that the Commission had helped Member States to implement the Youth Guarantee in a timely and appropriate manner.
However, the Commission has not carried out an impact assessment indicating the expected costs and benefits, although this is a standard procedure.
The Commission asked Member States to provide cost estimates when submitting their plans to implement the Youth Guarantee, but some Member States did not provide the necessary information, but none of the Member States indicated the estimated costs of the necessary structural reforms.
The Youth Guarantee was established in June 2013 in response to the deterioration of the situation of unemployed young people as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
In the period 2014-2020, the Youth Guarantee In the framework of the European Social Fund and the Youth Employment Initiative, a total of EUR 12.7 billion has been co-financed within the EU budget. • Support for young people by the Commission: The transfer from the ESF to the employment of young people has been successful but has not sufficiently focused on results (No 17/2015).
The auditors concluded that, despite the fact that the Youth Action Teams set up by the Commission managed to translate the funds into projects to support young people, they only applied to a limited extent.
The Commission provided advisory assistance to the Member States but was limited in the scope and quality of the information available.
While the initiative has led to the re-programming and re-allocation of the European Social Fund, the Commission has focused mainly on their budgetary impact when assessing the changes in the operational programmes.
If there are discrepancies between the promises made and the real objectives of the Commission, there should not be too high expectations of such initiatives.
As part of the Youth Opportunities initiative, the Commission set up teams of young people in 2012.
The team consisted of experts from eight Member States with the highest number of unemployed among young people and experts from the Commission.
This initiative covered almost EUR 10 billion of the European Social Fund, which were still available in the Member States concerned.
Our actions 21 Natural resources EUR 417 billion Sustainable growth: Natural resources This heading includes a common agricultural and fisheries policy, rural development and EU environmental action.
Three quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets.
The expenditure planned for 2014-2020 represents almost 39% of the total EU budget for this programming period, i.e. EUR 417 billion.
The 2015 budget was EUR 56 billion.
100 80 60 40 20 0 39 % • Technical assistance: What contribution has it made to agriculture and rural development?
(No 4/2015)   members of the Management Board shall be appointed by the Management Board of the Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Boards of the Management Boards of the Management Board of the Management Boards of the Management Board of the Management Boards of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Boards of the Board of the Management Boards of the Management Boards of the Board of Management Boards of the Management Boards of the Management Boards of Management Boards of the Management Boards of the Management Boards and Management Boards of the Boards of the Management Boards of the Management Boards and Management Boards and Management Board of the Management Boards of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board.
The audit focused on the regularity, efficiency and efficiency of funding at the level of the Commission and the Member States.
The audit showed that neither the European Commission nor the Member States were able to demonstrate how the use of technical assistance in agriculture and rural development contributed to the use of budget resources and to the achievement of the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
Rural networks to support cooperation, knowledge sharing and innovation in the agricultural sector are very appropriate as beneficiaries of technical assistance.
However, in most cases, capacity-building funds were used to support general administrative budgets.
The Commission should clarify the scope and use of technical assistance in the Member States in the field of rural development and closely monitor its implementation.
For the period 2007-2013, Member States planned to allocate €1.5 billion to technical assistance under the EU budget at 4% of the national financial framework available for rural development.
In the period 2014-2020, this amount increased to around €1.9 billion.
Our actions 22 • Are financial instruments in the field of rural development an effective and promising instrument?
(No 5/2015) ) The purpose of this special report is to determine whether the financial instruments (credits and guarantee funds) used in rural development policy in the 2007-2013 programming period have been fully developed and managed.
The audit showed that the financial instruments have not yet succeeded.
This is mainly due to the overcapitalisation of financial instruments and the lack of their potential to achieve the desired leverage and renewable effect.
There was no clear argument for the introduction of financial instruments for the 2007-2013 programming period.
Furthermore, reliable, quantitative information has not been obtained to justify the nature of the financial instruments established, to identify the need for financial instruments in the agricultural sector and to demonstrate that, for the Fund, the amount for this purpose was adequate.
Incentives should be stepped up for Member States to develop financial instruments for rural development and to increase demand for farmers or other beneficiaries and to set for 2014-2020 appropriate standards and targets for leverage and renewable effect.
By the end of 2013, the EU and its Member States invested around €700 million in guarantee and credit funds for rural development.
The Commission wants Member States to commit to at least doubling the use of these instruments for the period 2014-2020.
Efficiency analysis: the integrity and implementation of the EU ETS (No 6/2015) The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) differs in a way from the other policies and programmes that we are investigating, as it does not receive significant funding from the EU budget.
However, it has a very strong impact on the implementation of EU policies and on the quality of life of citizens.
The EU ETS was introduced in 2005 and is often referred to as the reference model for the development of climate change strategies and emissions trading systems elsewhere in the world.
Therefore, appropriate frameworks are expected to ensure regulation and market surveillance, legal certainty and management systems for relevant information.
The basic structures of the implementation systems should also be sufficiently robust.
At the end of 2013, our auditors examined the framework for protecting the integrity of the EU ETS and the system for the real implementation of the programme by the Commission and the Member States by phase II (end 2012).
The evaluation was carried out due to the risks associated with the creation of a functioning market for the implementation of the EU's climate change policy and the difficulties associated with control of activities that are not understood (not known on the market, how to measure hot air? in the picture).
Our auditors examined whether the EU ETS was properly managed.
To this end, they not only checked the files and checked the officials involved in the management of the EU ETS in the European Commission in Brussels, but also checked the competent authorities in the five Member States (Germany, France, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom).
In addition, in two other countries (Greece and Spain) documents were examined and experts were consulted.
More evidence has been obtained from auditors who have checked the documents of the national authorities concerning 150 installations selected in the seven Member States, as well as the data contained in the EU transaction protocol.
Our activities 23 are being analysed and the auditors have not been able to verify equipment on the spot because they have not received EU funds in connection with the emissions trading scheme and the Court therefore does not have the right to access to the controls necessary.
The evidence obtained by our controllers indicated that the emissions market was not being monitored and that there was insufficient cooperation between regulators.
For example, our auditors concluded that the legal definition of allowances should be clarified and that procedures for the opening of ETS accounts in the Union Registry and the monitoring of transactions were not appropriate in order to ensure adequate control in order to combat fraud.
However, the initial situation was difficult: Member States were not able to effectively monitor cross-border transactions as they did not have direct access to the central database, and the Commission was not able to monitor the transactions as there was no legal basis for it.
Our auditors also found that the emission monitoring and reporting systems are not harmonised and that there are weaknesses in control that the Commission's support and reporting from the Commission and the Member States were not sufficient.
On the basis of their findings, the auditors concluded that the framework for protecting the integrity of the market is not robust enough and that, at the last stage, there were serious shortcomings in implementation, which partly require further action at this stage.
However, our report clearly shows that this innovative system is constantly being improved.
At the time of publication of the report, the debate on possible reforms of the EU ETS, which focused on the effectiveness of the system and the over-regulation of the system, was not yet completed.
However, in our report, we note that we should also pay attention to the fundamental issues of market integrity and implementation, so that the EU can trust that this fundamental instrument is appropriate to meet the expectations of reducing emissions and low-carbon technologies.
We have made some practical recommendations to the Commission and the Member States' authorities to improve market integrity and implement the system so that the EU ETS becomes a more effective tool to achieve the climate targets by 2020 and beyond.
The Commission agreed with the recommendation contained in the report that, in order to improve the integrity of the market, significant regulatory and market surveillance problems should be addressed in order to improve, if necessary, emissions, and that, in phase III (2013-2020), numerous improvements have already been made, in particular with regard to our comments.
The report attracted a lot of media interest and was presented to accredited EU journalists at a press conference in Brussels.
In the EU and around the world, the press reported that the EU ETS should be more closely supervised to improve the carbon market and that the system should be more protected from market abuse, including the high risk of VAT fraud.
As usual for all the special reports, the Commissioner responsible for the report, Kevin Cardiff, in this case, presented the report of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and of the Committee on Parliament and of the Environment with a view to providing them with information from the Court on the basis of future decisions on the relevant provisions and regulations.
Parliament and the Council welcomed our comments and recommendations and will take into account future proposals to improve the integrity and implementation of the system.
from left to right: Stefan Den Engelsen, Emese Fésűs, Kevin Cardiff and Colm Friel.
Our actions 24 • Does the Commission manage fisheries partnership agreements well?
(No 11/2015) ÖFFENTliche This special report is intended to verify that the contracts are well managed.
The auditors assessed the negotiations and implementation of the agreements, the Commission's monitoring of catches and the selection and control of the actions financed.
The audit concluded that although contracts were generally well managed, the quantities negotiated were often higher than the quantities reported during the previous periods.
This leads to a regular under-use of funds.
As the EU makes full payments, regardless of the actual fishing activity, the actual costs were often higher than the negotiated price.
In addition, reliable, uniform and complete data on actual catches of the EU fleet were missing.
When negotiating new systems, the Commission should take into account the previous levels of use that more closely bind payments to actual catches and ensure that the new fishing database is fully used by flag Member States and contains reliable catch data that can be monitored and updated.
The aim of the agreements is to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries concerned by allowing EU vessels to only fish surplus stocks of partner countries.
However, the auditors doubt that the so-called surplus can be reliably calculated due to the lack of reliable information. • The EU's priority to support the knowledge economy in rural areas has been breached by insufficient management of knowledge transfer and guidance (No 12/2015) of the wife in this special report, in particular to examine the existence of management and control systems in order to effectively implement knowledge transfer and advice actions in rural development.
The audit showed that the implementation of EU-funded vocational education and training and vocational advice programmes is too expensive in rural areas, often leads to duplication of existing programmes and promotes education and training purchasers.
The auditors have detected incorrect administrative procedures in the Member States and insufficient supervision by the European Commission.
Member States relied too much on instructors' proposals and considered all kinds of training to be good and eligible for public funding.
The lack of fair and transparent choice has led to multiple choice of existing and existing suppliers and to most support.
Member States should select training projects corresponding to the skills needs set out in the periodic analysis and thus avoid the designation of competitions by suppliers.
The EU supports training and advisory projects in rural areas through the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
For the period 2007-2013, €1.3 billion has been allocated to these projects.
Together with Member States' co-financing, the total amount of public support amounted to EUR 2.2 billion.
This amount could amount to over EUR 4 billion over the period 2014-2020.
Our actions 25 • Cost savings for EU rural development aid for non-productive investments in agriculture (No 20/2015) gesandt The special report specifies in particular whether non-productive investments in agriculture (NPI) are cost-effective and whether they contribute to the achievement of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development objective for sustainable agriculture for the 2007-2013 programming period.
The auditors concluded that although the aid to the NPI contributed to the achievement of the objectives, it was not in a cost-effective manner, as in 75% of the projects audited the costs were disproportionate.
Many of these projects have been fully funded by public funding, although these collections have clearly stated that they have positive results, they have been visited by four Member States that have spent 80% of the total EU budget on NIP: Portugal, Denmark, the United Kingdom (England) and Italy (Apulia).
Only five of the 28 projects audited proved cost-effective.
The report warns that the lack of cost efficiency may not be limited to the sample as the problems identified were due to shortcomings in the management and control systems in the Member States.
Non-productive investments are investments which do not lead to significant income or to a significant increase in the value of the beneficiary's holding but have a positive impact on the environment. • EU infrastructure support in rural areas: these measures can be used in a much more efficient way (No 25/2015) a special report examines whether the European Commission and the Member States have achieved a positive cost-benefit ratio by financing roads, water supply systems, schools and other institutions under rural development programmes.
The audit showed that, although some infrastructure projects have made a positive contribution in rural areas, Member States and the Commission, in shared management, have achieved only an insufficient cost-benefit ratio.
Member States have not always clearly justified the need for EU funding for rural development.
The risk that projects that would have been implemented without EU funding could not be effectively controlled.
The report concludes that the Commission has adopted a more active and coordinated approach since 2012.
Correct implementation should lead to improved financial management for the period 2014-2020.
For the period 2007-2013, the rural development programmes allocated EU funds of EUR 13 billion to rural infrastructure.
Our actions 26 100 80 60 40 20 0 Foreign policy 65 billion EUR 6% Europe worldwide Europe worldwide covers the external relations of the EU (the foreign policy 6%), including enlargement, as well as EU development and humanitarian aid.
During the 2014-2020 programming period, the EU allocated 6% of the planned total expenditure, i.e. EUR 65 billion.
In 2015, the budget amounted to EUR 7.5 billion.
Additional appropriations will be made available through the European Development Fund, which is not part of the EU budget and is therefore not covered by the multiannual financial framework. • The EU Police Mission in Afghanistan: mixed result (No 7/2015) in the Special Report assesses whether the EU Police Mission (EUPOL) was well planned and coordinated, whether it received appropriate operational support and appropriate guidance, whether it contributed to the progress of the Afghan National Police and whether it was prepared for appropriate forms of exit.
The audit has shown that EUPOL has partially fulfilled the objective of contributing to the establishment of permanent and effective civilian police forces under Afghan responsibility.
In an environment characterised by the lack of trained, fully functioning Afghan police forces, high illiteracy and massive corruption in Afghan police and judicial systems, EUPOL has managed to contribute to the reform of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the professionalisation of the national police.
However, given the continuing shortcomings in the police and justice system in Afghanistan, there is a risk that the results of EUPOL and, in general, the Afghan police will not remain in the area by the end of 2016.
The total cost of EUPOL between May 2007 and December 2014 amounted to almost EUR 400 million. Security costs represent almost a third of this amount.
At the end of 2014, the EU carried out 32 missions under the common security and defence policy, of which 16 have ended, ended and ended, and 16 are still ongoing.
Our actions 27 • EU support for the fight against torture and the abolition of the death penalty (No 9/2015) of the death penalty (No 9/2015) of the views on whether the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights effectively supports the prevention of torture, rehabilitation of torture victims and the abolition of the death penalty.
The audit has shown that, although EU-funded projects are effective, projects are often not sufficiently targeted and are limited in scope as they are distributed in accordance with the principle of wealth.
The allocation of funds was usually appropriate, but the Commission did not sufficiently take into account the priorities of individual countries in the field of human rights.
Projects have often not been well coordinated with other EU actions such as development aid and political dialogue.
They were usually implemented by involved and competent organisations.
The recommendations of the auditors concerned the targeting of financial resources, better coordination with other EU actions, the selection and improvement of projects, the measurement of results and the sustainability of beneficiary organisations.
The European Union operates through diplomatic channels and grants grants to NGOs through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights.
• EU support for timber producing countries under the FLEGT Action Plan (No 13/2015)... in the framework of this special report... to examine whether the EU FLEGT Action Plan to combat illegal logging was well managed by the Commission in the framework of the EU Action Plan to combat illegal logging.
The auditors said that although the Action Plan is a desirable initiative, the results are generally thinner.
The aid was not granted to wood-producing countries on the basis of clear criteria and its impact was weakened due to the large number of countries competing for aid.
There have been significant differences in progress in these countries.
Inappropriate progress is particularly due to the lack of appropriate planning by the Commission and the lack of clear priorities for the allocation of resources to wood producing countries.
The auditors recommended that the Commission set clear objectives and measures to achieve them.
Four Member States still need to fully implement the EU Wood Regulation, which has been introduced to prevent the import of illegally harvested timber into the EU market.
Between 2003 and 2013, 35 countries received EUR 300 million under the Action Plan.
Two of these countries, Indonesia and Ghana, have made significant progress towards a full timber licensing system.
Overall, little progress has been made, and many countries have struggled to overcome the obstacles to good policy-making.
Within 12 years of the Commission's implementation of the action plan, no partner country has been able to implement a fully approved authorisation scheme.
Our actions 28 • ACP Investment Facility: does it offer added value?
(No 14/2015) s y y h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
The audit has shown that the Investment Facility actually adds value to EU development cooperation with ACP countries and that it is also useful to achieve the EU's policy objectives.
At the end of 2014, the credit lines represented 28% of the instrument's portfolio compared with 14% at the end of 2010.
The increase in participation reflects the lasting importance of the long-term funding offered under the instrument.
The instrument also acted as a catalyst in a positive sense by triggering additional measures.
However, the auditors concluded that the contractual obligation to inform the final beneficiaries of the financing from the European Investment Bank (EIB) or from the Investment Facility is not always fulfilled, and that technical assistance is not always targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises.
They have made recommendations to address these problems.
The ACP Investment Facility established in 2003 receives its capital from the European Development Fund and is managed by the EIB.
Over the last ten years, projects worth €5.7 billion have been approved under the Facility.
The facility provides funding in the medium to long term and aims to achieve sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits. • The promotion of renewable energy in Eastern Africa under the ACP-EU Energy Facility (No 15/2015) in this special report examines whether the Commission has successfully used the Energy Facility to improve access to renewable energy in Eastern Africa to the poor.
The audit has shown that some significant results have been achieved, but even better monitoring of the instrument is needed.
Although the Commission has made a good choice between the projects proposed, it has not monitored sufficiently sufficiently the progress made in the implementation of the project.
The project managers' reports were different in quality and the Commission did not make any efforts to enforce compliance with the reporting requirements.
In the case of projects known to be facing serious problems, the Commission officials have carried out insufficient visits and on-the-spot inspections as part of the monitoring to supplement the information provided by the administrators.
The report sets out recommendations for stricter choice, stricter monitoring, and improvement of the sustainability of future projects.
By mid-2014 a total of EUR 268 million was allocated, of which EUR 106 million was allocated to projects in Eastern Africa, which was allocated to the lowest access to electricity in Africa.
Our actions 29 • Analysis of the risk of a performance-oriented approach to EU development and cooperation actions (No 21/2015) to issue a special report due to the growing interest in recent years to shift the priorities of EU development policy and cooperation from action to results.
The auditors have identified nine major risks: inconsistent terminology based on results or inconsistent chain of activities, products, impacts and impacts; increased complexity resulting from the inclusion of cross-cutting issues in EU programmes; lack of harmonisation of aid tools, impact frameworks and the structure of the partners' responsibility for development; weaknesses in evaluation and evaluation of results; lack of consolidated reports or review of results from EU assistance; lack of sufficient, relevant, reliable and up-to-date data; focus on budgetary results as a target; change of the context of the action.
The audit showed that these risk areas were correctly identified by the Commission in a number of different documents.
However, further action is needed to exploit the full potential of the Commission's initiatives and to improve the EU's development and cooperation performance.
A number of recommendations have therefore been made which the Commission should take into account.
Our actions 30 100 80 60 40 20 0 Financial and economic governance The objective of the EU economic governance framework is to address problematic financial and economic trends, such as excessive public deficits or public debt, which can undermine economic growth and undermine the sustainability of public finances.
Part of this framework is the creation of an EU Banking Union.
According to the 2014 report of the European Banking Authority, this special report was the second report to be submitted on this subject.
In 2008, Europe met with a financial crisis that has become a sovereign debt crisis.
The debt crisis was the result of various factors, including weak banking supervision, insufficient fiscal policy, and difficulties faced by large financial institutions (and the resulting costs of saving them by society).
The crisis broke out in two waves in the EU Member States: in 2008-2009 it first met with non-euro area countries and later spread to the euro area.
Our auditors examined how the European Commission managed financial assistance under the Balance of Payments Instrument and the European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism during the crisis, for which the Commission absorbed financial resources on the capital markets, and the EU budget was to be guaranteed.
The audit concerned financial assistance to Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Ireland and Portugal, with particular emphasis on the Commission's role in these programmes.
In addition, our auditors examined the Commission's cooperation with the European Central Bank (ECB) partners in Frankfurt and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Washington.
They have obtained evidence of the audit through detailed review and analysis of documents and consultation of Commission officials, national authorities, the ECB and the IMF.
These parties were not subject to control or to decisions taken at EU political level.
The audit showed that the European Commission was not prepared for the initial requests for financial assistance during the financial crisis in 2008, as the warning signals were not omitted, which explains, in the beginning, the significant shortcomings in their administrative processes.
The auditors identified four main areas of crisis management of the Commission: differentiated approaches, limited quality control, insufficient supervision and shortcomings in the documentation.
In some programmes, the conditions for granting the aid were less stringent and easier to comply with.
Furthermore, they claimed that the Commission's teams had not sufficiently verified the relevant documents that the calculations on which they were based had not been verified by anyone outside the team that they had not been sufficiently monitored by the experts and that they had not been sufficiently documented in the verification procedures.
However, our actions 31 Auditors believe that, despite the lack of experience, the Commission has managed to carry out its new administrative tasks and to launch grant programmes of relevance to the reform process, which, given the pressure of time, should be considered to be a success.
In addition, the auditors argued that, during the crisis, the Commission has increasingly developed internal knowledge and cooperated with a number of stakeholders in the countries concerned and that improved macro-economic surveillance has been introduced in the course of future reforms.
For example, the objectives of the programmes have been met, the adjusted deficit targets have been largely achieved, structural deficits have been improved and the Member States have largely met the conditions of their programmes, albeit with some delays.
In most cases, the countries continued the reforms under the programme, and in four out of five countries the current account adjustment was faster than expected.
Our auditors said that there are still a number of weaknesses and that the Commission has to improve the procedures for managing financial aid.
We have made a number of recommendations to the European Commission to ensure that financial assistance will be managed to a greater extent in the future when Member States in difficulty are asking for assistance.
The report was heard widely, especially in the European media, but also in the United States and Australia.
Like our other special reports, it is presented to the addressees in the European Parliament and the Council by our Baudilio Veneto Muguruza, responsible for the report.
Control team (left to right): Didier Lebrun, Ignacio García de Parada, Kristian Sniter, Josef Jindra, Giuseppe Diana, Baudilio São Thomas Muguruza, Adrian Savin, Daniela Hristova, Zacharias Kolias, Marco Fians and Daniel Costa de Magalhães.
Our actions 32 • EU supervision of credit rating agencies is based on solid grounds, but is not yet fully effective (No 22/2015) on the basis of a special report, it is examined whether the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) (ESMA) is effective in the supervision of credit rating agencies in the EU.
The financial crisis in 2008 increased the focus on credit rating agencies and their impact on financial markets.
At that time, credit rating agencies in Europe were not fully regulated.
The audit concluded that although ESMA has developed good grounds, its principles and guidelines are not complete and that there are still serious risks.
The auditors concluded that ESMA could reduce the average duration of the registration procedure, but the procedure is still complex.
While rating methods should be rigorous, systematic, sustainable and subject to approval, ESMA's activities focus mainly on whether these methods are rigorous.
The current Eurosystem credit assessment framework does not guarantee the smooth functioning of all credit rating agencies registered with ESMA, which creates a two-stage market structure which puts small credit rating agencies at a disadvantage.
The auditors made certain recommendations to ESMA on the registration procedure, the traceability of the risk detection process, the surveillance process and the IT systems. • Technical assistance to Greece: Improving accessibility requires a greater focus of the results (No 19/2015) and in this special report analyses whether the task force on Greece has fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance to Greece has effectively contributed to the reform process.
The Task Force was set up by the Commission in 2011 in order to support the economic adjustment of Greece by means of a number of technical assistance measures.
The auditors checked whether the task force had fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance had effectively contributed to the reform.
They obtained evidence from the Commission, service providers, Greek ministries and other interested parties.
The audit showed that the Greek authorities had received technical assistance in accordance with the mandate, but that they had not always made sufficient progress in the reforms.
Due to the urgency of the situation, the Task Force was set up in a short time without a full analysis of the other options or within its own budget.
The Task Force did not have a complex, comprehensive strategic document to provide technical assistance or to set priorities.
This aid was appropriate and largely in line with the requirements of the programme, and the Task Force developed a flexible and diversified implementation system and was still weak at project level.
Greek parliament, Athens, Greece.
Our actions 33 Other 8,2% 100 80 60 40 20 0 VAT 12,8 % TEM 13,3% % GNI 65,7 % revenue The EU budget is financed mainly from revenue from three types of own resources.
These include own resources based on gross national income (GNI) and VAT and traditional own resources (SCI), in particular customs duties on products and sugar levies imported into the EU.
The EU also receives taxes on the remuneration of EU workers from third countries paid to certain EU programmes and fines from companies that violate EU rules and regulations.
Revenue must fully cover EU expenditure.
In 2015, revenue amounted to EUR 141.3 billion. • Combating intra-Community VAT fraud: further action is needed (No 24/2015) The report• examines whether the EU is effectively combating intra-Community VAT fraud.
As a result of organised crime, the European Union loses between EUR 40 billion and EUR 60 billion of VAT revenue each year.
Since exports of goods and services from one EU Member State to another are exempt from VAT, criminals in both countries can cheat in relation to taxation.
In this way, both the countries concerned and the EU lose their income.
The audit identified serious shortcomings indicating insufficient effectiveness of the current system.
The EU has many tools to combat VAT fraud within the EU, but some of them need to be improved or more consistent in application.
In most Member States that have visited, there are no effective cross-checks between customs and tax data; Member States' tax authorities exchange information on VAT; however, there are problems regarding the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of the data; there is no cooperation and there is no cooperation between administrative, judicial and judicial authorities between administrative and judicial authorities.
In order to improve the system, the Member States, the European Parliament and the European Commission must take action.
Our actions 34 opinions in 2015. Our opinions on proposals for new or revised legislation with financial impact also contribute to improving the EU's financial management.
These opinions are issued at the request of other EU institutions and are used by the legislative bodies Prosentanteil Parliament and Council at the request of other EU institutions.
In addition, we can, on our own initiative, issue documents and analyses on other issues.
In 2015, we issued eight opinions on a number of important areas: • Opinion No 1/2015 on the proposal for a revision of the Financial Regulation on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union; • Opinion No 2/2015 on the proposal for a revision of the Financial Regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office; • Opinion No 3/2015 on the proposal for a Financial Regulation of the Single Elimination Committee; • Opinion No 4/2015 on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) (for further details in the framework); • Opinion No 5/2015 on the proposal for a revision of the Regulation of the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market; • Opinion No 2/2015 on the proposal for a revision of the Financial Regulation of the Single Elimination Committee; • Opinion No 71/2015 on the proposal for a revision of the Regulation on traditional own resources based on VAT and GNI; • Opinion No 84/2015 on the proposal for a revision of the Financial Regulation of the European Development Fund.
As part of the priority axis: Opinion on EFSI In response to the fall in investment in 2007 in November 2014, the Commission launched an offensive for Europe in the field of investment.
The Investment Plan is based on the logic of intervention on which there is a high demand for investment in Europe and on which many economically viable projects are based and on which there are sources of funding.
The challenge is to make effective use of savings and liquidity to promote sustainable employment and growth in Europe.
The Investment Plan will be implemented without burdening national budgets and new commitments.
From this investment plan to its full implementation, the Commission promises to create between 1 million and 1.3 million new jobs and to mobilise additional (mainly long-term) investment funds of at least EUR 315 billion between 2015 and 2017.
In order to contribute to the success of this initiative, in our opinion, we have drawn attention to the issues of governance and the legal framework, the principles of accountability and external audit, as well as financial commitments to public budgets.
We have also noted that for instruments where the EU works with the private sector, an adequate level of transparency and accountability with regard to public funds should be ensured.
In addition, the results of these instruments should be measured in terms of the extent to which the objectives of the actions financed are achieved.
We have noted that the proposal does not explicitly describe the agreements between the Commission and the European Investment Bank.
Our opinion has been taken into account by regulatory authorities in Regulation (EU) 2015/1017 on EFSI.
Our actions 35 Contributing to the EU's responsibility through high-level events and conferences We organize conferences on what we have identified threats and where our control powers can contribute to the EU's responsibility and thus raise awareness of the importance of sound financial management and management of the EU's finances.
In 2015, we organised the two conferences described below, which correspond to our strategic objective of cooperation with our partners in the EU process.
During the year we also held seminars with internal and external experts to share knowledge about recent developments in EU policy and to use information to plan and conduct our research.
For example, in October, a seminar focused on progress in the reform of the common agricultural policy was held, and the seminar was attended by representatives of the Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
The Court's Energy Security Conference in the EU On 5 May 2015 a conference on energy security in the EU took place in Brussels in order to provide a neutral and independent platform for stakeholders from EU institutions, Member States, the energy industry and universities to discuss the challenges facing the EU in the field of energy security.
Our president, Vítor Caldeira, opened the conference, and Maroš Šefčovič, one of the Vice-Presidents of the Commission, gave an introductory speech.
Our members: Szabolcs Fazakas and Phil Wynn Owen From left to right: Szabolcs Fazakas, Maroš Šefčovič, Vítor Caldeira and Phil Wynn Owen. They held a conference which included panel discussions on two main areas: obstacles to completion of the internal energy market and the significant contribution of Ukraine to energy supply in Europe as an important transit country.
We have organised this conference because the EU is facing many challenges that are linked to each other.
These include the creation of an internal energy market to enhance the competitiveness of the European economy, the fight against climate change and energy security.
In our tests, we are increasingly focusing on energy and climate issues.
We have already prepared specific reports on issues such as the internal energy market, energy security, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
In addition, further reports are planned in this area, including on EU support to Ukraine and EU expenditure on climate action and climate and energy analysis in the EU.
Our aim is to create added value for the EU's energy policy, and thanks to this conference, we have shown that we want the debate on these issues to be democratic.
Our actions 36 Conference of the Court on the Future of Development Assistance On 20-21 October 2015 we organised an international conference in Luxembourg on post 2015 Development Assistance on the occasion of the European Year for Development, the adoption of the new UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Luxembourg Presidency.
At the beginning of the two-day conference chaired by our member, Danièle Lamarque, the President of our President, Vítor Caldeira, the Luxembourg Minister for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Affairs, Romain Schneider, on behalf of the EU Presidency, the President of the European Parliament Development Committee, Linda McAvan, EU Commissioner for Development, Neven Mimica and UN Undersecretary-General Grete Faremo.
The conclusions of the conference were summarised by Marc Angel, President of the Committee on Foreign and European Affairs, and President of the Luxembourg Chamber of Deputies.
The EU is the largest donor of development aid in the world and cooperates with many public and private partners, including international organisations, foundations, NGOs and countries.
The effectiveness of aid is becoming increasingly important, which can be achieved by carefully respecting the criteria for the allocation and assessment of aid.
In this context, there is a great role for the court.
The new UN Sustainable Development Goals for 2015-2030 are more ambitious than the previous Millennium Development Goals and move the recipients to think and act differently.
Participants agreed that development aid must be adapted to environmental policy, energy policy and migration policy and to other policy areas, as well as to new stakeholders.
In addition, development agencies need to adapt to the increasing diversification of funding and financial instruments: innovative financial instruments contribute to increasing leverage and to the approximation of market conditions while making financial decisions and determining the added value of the aid difficult.
The European Commission has given a lecture on how a result-oriented budget is to look like, setting out clearly how EU funds are to be spent and how results are to be spent.
To this end, the Court also participates in the joint interinstitutional working group.
Our actions 37 Relations with the addressees The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union The value of our contribution to the European Union to tax obligations depends to a large extent on the benefits of our main partner in the legislative process and on the accountability of our work and products results.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funds: the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and national parliaments.
In line with our strategy for 2013-2017, we have paid particular attention to improving our working relations with Parliament and the Council.
The President and the Members of the Court shall maintain regular contacts with the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT), which is our most important partner.
In 2015, President Vítor Caldeira presented our annual work programme and our annual reports at two CONT meetings. He also presented the annual reports at the two plenary sessions of Parliament and participated in the debate on the inauguration.
At the initiative of Ville Itälä, our institutional member, President Caldeira, presented our work programme for 2015 also at the Conference of Commission Presidents.
In October 2015, CONT was accompanied by a working visit from the Court, which continued the practice of annual bilateral meetings at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, and our representatives participated in visits to the Member States (Greece) and the beneficiary countries (Serbia) organised by the CONT.
In 2015, our members represented the Court in 29 CONT meetings to discuss our annual and special reports.
In addition, our members have submitted nine special reports to the Commission.
We also held a joint meeting with Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and the Environment to discuss issues of common interest and began working with Parliament's Scientific Service to promote a more effective exchange of knowledge between our control chambers and services.
We have also worked more closely with the Council to strengthen and strengthen relations with the Council and its Presidency.
In November, during the Luxembourg Presidency, President Caldeira and Pierre Gramegna, the Luxembourg Finance Minister and President of the ECOFIN Council, during the 2014 discharge procedure, met during the Luxembourg Presidency to discuss the follow-up to our 2014 annual report.
The various Council working groups presented our 2015 work programme and 15 special reports.
We also presented the various chapters of the annual report to the Committee on Budgets of the Council as the basis for the discharge procedure.
Annual meeting of the Court's representatives with the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
Our actions 38 Strengthening partnership with national parliaments and national authorities During the year we worked closely with our addressees in the Member States.
National Parliaments have systematically informed us about our work.
In addition, the President and the Members of the Court presented an annual report to the national Parliaments and to the authorities of most Member States.
In addition, there were meetings with representatives of national parliaments and national authorities at the premises of the Court and in the Member States.
We continued our initiative in 2014 to organise high-level visits to the EU Member States to deepen our partnerships with the national authorities responsible for the management and control of EU funds.
In April 2015, a high-level delegation of the Court went to Poland to highlight the importance of public financial control and responsibility for EU funds, to increase the Court's visibility in this area and to start a dialogue with the Polish authorities concerned.
These included meetings with the president of Poland Bronisław Komorowski, the head of the Prime Minister's firm, both chambers of parliament, state authorities and local authorities, and in particular with the ORB of Poland.
Discussions focused mainly on public responsibility and control, as well as a recent analysis of EU legislation on public responsibility and control.
Meetings with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development enabled the discussion of our analyses of rural areas, the results of relevant research and best practice.
Our delegation visited two projects funded by the EU: one financed by the public authorities and the other financed by a private beneficiary.
The high-level visit to Poland was supplemented by visits to the Czech Republic (June 2015) and Bulgaria (November 2015).
In the Czech Republic, our representatives met with the Czech President Miloš Zeman, Prime Minister and representatives of Parliament.
In addition, they took part in a joint meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Chamber of Deputies, in which the results of the audits in the field of the common agricultural policy and cohesion were discussed in the previous programming period, which were relevant to the Czech Republic.
During this visit, our representatives contributed to the conference on electronic data and to their importance for future tests organised by the ORKB of the Czech Republic.
As part of the visit to Bulgaria, our delegation met with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Rosen Plevneliev, Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, President of the Tset Parliament Tsacheva and other representatives of Parliament.
In addition, members of the delegation attended a conference on the importance of external audit for the effective management of the public sector, organised on the 135th anniversary of the establishment, as well as on the 20th anniversary of the resumption of activities in Bulgaria.
From the left: Vítor Caldeira (President of the European Court of Auditors), Krzysztof Kwiatkowski (President of the OrkB of Poland) and Augustyn cubic (member of the Polish Court of Auditors).
Our activities 39 Cooperation with the highest audit authorities The Court cooperates with the other highest audit authorities (ORKBs), mainly through the • Contact Committee with the ORKB of the EU Member States; • The ORKB network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • international audit organisations of public finances, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) and its European regional group (EUROSAI).
The Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the EU Member States In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court and the national audit authorities shall cooperate in a reliable manner in accordance with their independence.
Cooperation with the Steering Committee of the EU Member States shall be actively conducted within the Contact Committee, including within the framework of an annual meeting and of the various working groups, networks and task forces dealing with specific issues of common interest.
A Contact Committee meeting took place in Riga in 2015.
At the meeting, the members of the Contact Committee discussed the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI), the prevention of irregularities and fraud, and the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
The issues concerning the Single Supervisory Mechanism have also been addressed.
The Contact Commission has adopted a statement on the rules on accountability and financial control of the Single Supervisory Mechanism addressed to national parliaments and governments and to the EU institutions and bodies concerned.
In addition, the Contact Committee agreed to carry out parallel controls on the implementation of the Single Supervisory Mechanism and on the contribution of the Structural Funds to the Europe 2020 strategy and on the risks to the sustainability of public finances.
In November 2015, the Court was involved in the inaugural meeting of the Working Party on the Structural Funds VII in order to draw up a work plan for the new multilateral parallel control in order to determine to what extent EU financial support in the field of education and employment contributes effectively to the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The Network of the highest audit bodies of candidate countries and potential candidate countries Cooperation between the Court and the Surveillance Office of candidate countries and potential candidate countries is mainly carried out through a network1 which is comparable to the Contact Committee.
In 2015, we continued to support the network in carrying out a parallel energy efficiency control.
The last workshop devoted to this project took place in May 2015 at the Court's premises in Luxembourg.
The Court participates in the preparation of new projects to start in 2016 and which focus on audits and audits of accounts.
In May 2015, representatives of the Court took part in the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the establishment in Albania.
President Caldeira and President of the Republic of Albania Bujar Nishani met for this purpose.
Eight examiners from the network from OBRK took part in our internship program for 2015.
1 In January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and a potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has been participating in the network as an observer*. * The use of this name is without prejudice to positions on the status of Kosovo and is in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence.
Our 40 multilateral activities (INTOSAI EUROSAI) and bilateral cooperation In 2015, we continued to actively participate and participate in INOSAI and EUROSAI activities, in particular in their bodies.
In November, starting with the International Congress of Supreme Audit Authorities (INCOSAI) at the end of 2016, at the end of 2016, the Court was appointed Vice-President of the INTOSAI Technical Standards Committee.
In addition, we have heard the request of the ORB of Ukraine, which chair the working group on the assessment of civil protection assistance assistance, to take part in the first meeting of this working group.
The Court is also an active member of the EUROSAI Task Force on Control and Ethics. Ethics which wishes to promote ethical behaviour and integrity in the ORKB and public institutions.
The main objective of the Task Force is to create and strengthen a framework to support ethical behaviour by creating and strengthening appropriate practical guidelines and tools to support day-to-day control.
We took part in the fifth joint EUROSAI-ARABOSAI conference on the supervision of state aid plans and the second Young-EUROSAI conference, attended by young auditors who took part in the discussion on current issues.
We also visited the World Leader Forum, the main theme of which was the role of public sector auditors in 2030.
The Court maintains good bilateral relations with other research and innovation committees.
For example, in 2015 our delegation participated in an international seminar organized by ORKB Poland for auditors from Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine in Warsaw.
Members of the delegation spoke with the ORKB of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia about their experience of developing and building the capacity to join the EU, and organised training on our methods of verifying compliance with the law and compliance with the law.
Cooperation with the ORKB in the framework of international peer reviews (expert evaluation) is a customary way of promoting good practices and promoting quality assurance.
The Werkzeuge Peer Reviews Sub-Committee presents INTOSAI updates of the ISSAI 5600 peer review guide (ISSAI refers to international standards for the highest control authorities).
In 2015, we made a decisive contribution to the review of this guide, which will be adopted by the INCOSAI Congress in 2016.
We have also taken up the leading role in international peer reviews of the ORKB of Latvia, Spain and Switzerland.
The technical evaluation of the ORKB of Latvia was very comprehensive and covered the methods and procedures for auditing the financial statements and for checking compliance and efficiency and the effectiveness of the support functions.
The technical evaluation of the Spanish ORKB, led by the Portuguese ORKB, also covered many aspects of the functioning of the Spanish ORKB.
During the specialized evaluation of the 'ORKB Switzerland' we were the only observers.
The evaluation assessed the relevance of the strategy and the planning and quality control processes.
Our management 41 The College of the Court of Justice of the Court belongs to one member from each Member State.
Members shall be appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament for a period of six years, as proposed by each Member State.
In accordance with the Treaty, the members shall carry out their tasks in the full independence and in the general interest of the European Union.
The chairman shall be elected from among their members for a period of three years.
The term of office of the Chairperson and of the Members shall be renewable.
The majority of members belong to one of the five chambers which adopt audit reports, opinions and opinions, and take decisions on strategic and administrative matters.
In addition, each member shall be responsible for his or her own tasks mainly in the field of audit.
The member, assisted by his office, shall coordinate the relevant teams of auditors.
It shall then adopt the presentation of reports, opinions or opinions to be adopted by the Chamber and/or the entire College of the Court and then by Parliament, the Council and other relevant addressees, including the media.
In selected cases and at the initiative of the members, the report may also be submitted to the authorities of the Member States concerned.
One member took part in institutional relations in Ville Itälä.
In 2015, at the request of a Member State and after consulting the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union appointed Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) as a member of the Court.
This Decision shall apply from 1 September 2015 until 28 February 2018, i.e. for the remainder of the current term of office of the previous Danish member of Henrik Otbo, who died suddenly in February 2015.
College of the Court as at 31 December 2015
Our Management 42 Organizer of the European Court of Auditors President I Conservation and management of natural resources I I I I I I management of natural resources I and natural resources I I I II Structural, transport and energy II Structural, transport and energy I of the European Court of Auditors I Protection and management of natural resources I I II Structural, transport and energy Management of natural resources I I I I I I II External policies and bodies of the European Union CEAD-Kammer coordinates coordination, evaluation, quality assurance and development Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Augustyn KUBIK Polska Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Milan Martin CVKL Slovenia Igors LUDBOR., Latvia Jan KINŠD BALKO Slovakia, BALKO KAKAS Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Louis GALEA Malta Lazaros S. LAZAROU Cyprus Cyprus Karel PINXTEN Cyprus Kersti KALULEAD Estonia S. LAZAROU LAMARQ France France BUDIO LOMÉ MUL NIO NI NIO NIO NINIO NI NíKUR NIO NIO NIKOUR Niko Niko Nico NI NikoUR Nico Portugal Nicos Spain
Our governance 43 The Court's 2013-2017 Strategy: Continuous progress Our five-year strategy aims to maximise the value of our contribution to the EU's public responsibility.
Our main objective is to achieve this objective in the following graph: many initiatives in the Strategy have already been implemented.
We have expanded the range of products, strengthened and expanded our relations with our addressees, accelerated our control procedures and improved the way we measure our own results.
In 2015, the Court decided to reform its organisational structure.
In this way, we will take into account the European Parliament's recommendations on the future role of the Court and the results of the international peer review procedure carried out in 2014 in relation to our performance controls.
The Court's strategic priorities for 2013-2017 for the period 2013-2017 for the disclosure of the Court's products on the improvement of the EU's ability to cooperate with us on the obligation to participate in the obligation to report on the effectiveness of the Court and on the additionality of the Court's obligation to provide information on the information and information in the field of cooperation and information for the recovery of information on the period 2013-2017
Our governance 44 The reform of the Court of Justice Objective 1 Further broadening the audit effort 2 The broadening of the requested broadening of the requested requested broadening of the closed-ended closed-out target of the closed-out closed-out task of the closed-out found-out-out-of-the-six-six-six-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-six-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixths-ths-s-sixth-sixths-sixths-sixth-s-th-sixths-six-six-six-s-s-seventhsixths-sevenths-seventhsevenths-s-s-s-s-s-s-sixthsevenths-s-s-s-s-sevenths-s-s-seven-seven-seventh-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s--seven-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-seven-seven-s-seven-s-seven-seven-s-s-s-seven-s-s-s-s-seven-s-s-s-seven-s-s-s-s-s-s-seven-s-seven-s-seven-s-s-seven-seven-s-seven-seventh-seven-s-s-seven-s-s-s-seven-s-seven-seven-s-s-s-s-s-seven-s-s-s-seven-s-seven-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-seven-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-seven-s-
Our management 45 Flexible response in a rapidly changing environment We have developed a new work planning process that will allow us to plan our work based on priorities and a comprehensive risk assessment throughout the Court.
We are now systematically taking into account the views of the addressees in the planning of our work to ensure that our reports are as appropriate as possible.
With the support of our Member responsible for institutional relations, our President and Members cooperate with EU citizens, including the European Parliament's committees.
Flexible provision of resources for the implementation of priority control tasks We have organised our staff in flexible teams around specific tasks, not in departments, to facilitate the allocation of priority tasks.
This means that now we can use the funds to use the right person for the right job and thus make full use of their skills and potential.
The reform also led to better governance of the Court: the heads of departments have become management managers who share management tasks under the direction of the manager and who are also making efforts to acquire quality and supervision expertise.
We also strengthen our expertise in control and introduce knowledge transfer tools in order to further improve our knowledge management processes.
Product delivery speed We have simplified our control procedures and simplified task management so that we can deliver our products in a short time.
In recent years, we have shortened the average time needed to prepare our special reports and the reform will allow for further shortening.
This is particularly important in the context of the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation.
Better communication about our role and our work We have amended our annual report so that it applies to the headings of the multiannual financial framework and so it is easier to use and clearer.
In the annual report we present a few years report on the main expenditure areas and the results.
In addition, we have strengthened the communication and relations functions with the addressees and we have hired one spokesperson.
Our management 46 Performance measurement Since 2008 we have used key performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform management about progress in achieving our goals, to support decision-making and to inform our addressees about results.
They reflect our priorities and define our results and accountability as a professional examination body.
Indicators measure the basic parameters of the quality and impact of our work, with particular emphasis on the position of the main addressees and the effectiveness and effectiveness of the use of resources.
In this context, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the measure which constitutes State aid constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, in particular within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the TFEU, since the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, since State aid may affect trade between Member States within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the TFEU within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the TFEU.
Quality and impact of our work We assess the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of the assessments carried out by the addressees and assessments carried out by experts.
Besides, we're measuring our presence in the media.
Assessment of the addressees We have asked our main addressees to the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgets of the Council, the main bodies audited in the Commission and EU Agencies and the EU-ORKB Presidents to assess the validity and impact of our reports published in 2015, on the basis of a five-year scale from very low to very high.
The answers show that 90% of our main addressees assess the value of our reports as suitable for their work (compared with 94% in 2014). 92% say that our work is working (91% in 2014).
Assessment of recipients 10% 21% 45% 24% 2% 0 % Very low 20% average 40 % Very high degree of accuracy of reports Potential impact of reports 60 % 80 % 100% 6% 23% 45% 24%
Our management 47 expert reviews Every year independent external experts review the content and present a sample of our reports to assess the quality of our reports. In 2015, the reviewers assessed the four special reports and the annual reports for the financial year 2014.
The quality assessment of the various aspects of the reports was based on a four-stage scale In the most significant impact from W h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h e h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
Expert assessments in 2015 were higher than in the previous 4 years and the overall average of these two types of reports was 3.3.
Follow-up to the recommendations We contribute primarily to improving the EU's financial management by making recommendations to the Commission and other actors in our reports.
Some recommendations can be quickly implemented while others require more time due to their complexity.
We regularly review the extent to which our recommendations have been implemented by the audited entities.
By the end of 2015, 73% of the more than 600 recommendations we made in 2012-2015 were implemented.
This represents an increase compared to the implementation rate of 69 % in 2014 in relation to the recommendations adopted in 2011-2014.
Reviews of the Court's reports by experts in 2012 2014, 2014, 2015 3.0 3.0 3.3 Quality assessment 01234 Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year in which fees of 100 % 80% 60% 40 % 20 % 0% 91 % 80 % 50 % 50 % 2012 2014 2015
It concerns the strategic objective of raising the Court's awareness of its products, the audit findings and the conclusions of the audit.
In 2015, we collected about 3400 articles on-line on our special reports, annual reports and the Court in general.
54% of these concerned our audit reports; the other articles concerned the Court in general and its work.
In 2015, almost twice as many annual reports were reported in the media as in 2014.
On the other hand, the number of media reports on our special reports decreased compared to 2014, mainly because of the interest of the report this year (airport infrastructure financed by the EU (No 21/2014) on which more than 800 articles were published).
Resource efficiency and efficiency We assess the efficiency and efficiency of resource use depending on the extent to which we are able to implement our work programme, to carry out audits and to ensure that we are competent in good time.
Implementation of the work programme We plan our audits and other tasks based on the annual work programme and monitor the progress of the year.
In 2015, we realized our work programme at 88%.
While the work on the annual reports and the special annual reports was carried out as planned, compared with our very ambitious planning for special reports, 69 percent were carried out.
The completion of the remaining special reports, which were delayed due to the receipt of evidence from the audit or unexpected complexity, was submitted at the beginning of 2016.
Special reports mainly address new or innovative audits which, by their nature, may take longer.
The Court's draft reform, which was assessed in the section on other tasks in, was carried out in accordance with the plan.
Implementation of the Court's work programme for 2015 100 % 80 % 60 % 40% 20 % 0% of special reports Annual reports Other tasks Total 69 % 100 % 88 %
Our management 49 Drafting special reports In order for our special reports to have effect, they must be submitted in due course.
In recent years, we have managed to reduce the time needed for checks, mainly on the basis of initiatives stemming from the 2013-2017 strategy.
In 2015, we prepared 25 special reports over an average period of 17 months (19 months in 2014), i.e. for the first time in less than 18 months.
We will continue to seek to reduce the time needed to prepare our special reports, in particular in response to the new principle introduced by the amended Financial Regulation.
Vocational training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) we try to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training (except language courses).
The target level of professional training for controllers has been exceeded again, which shows how important we attach to the development of human resources.
In 2015, taking into account language courses, one examiner represented an average of 9.4 days of training.
Special reports period 100 % 80 % 60 % 40% 20% 20% 0% 5 %1 SB 4 %1 SB Length 1 SB Length 1 month from 26 months 18-26 months 10-18 months 60 % 12 SB 54 % 13 SB 35 % 7 SB 42 % 10 SB 2013 2014 2015 36 % 9 SB 60 % 15 SB Length 1 SB Length 1 month 10-18 months 60% 12 SB 54% 13 SB 35 % 7 SB 42 % 10 SB 2013 2014 2015 36 % 9 SB 60 % 15 SB Length 1 SB Length 1 SB 26 months 60% 10-18 months 60 SB 54% 13 SB 35% 7 SB 42 % 10 SB 2013 2014 2015 36% 9 SB 60 % 15 SB Length 1 days of training for examiners per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Average number of days for examiners (without language courses) Objective ≥ 5 days 6.4 6,8 6.2 2013 2014 2015 days 2015
Support for 50 control activities Human resources Human resources Allocation In 2015 we continued to reduce employment by 1 % per year, as referred to in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013, for a period of five years (2013-2017).
As a result, in 2015 the number of employees decreased from 882 temporary officials and temporary staff to 872 (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
The staff of the controller consisted of 562 staff, including 113 staff in the members' office.
The employment of the Court's staff has a broad academic and professional context and the quality of its work and its involvement are reflected in the Court's findings.
Our employment policy is in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, the staff of which consists of both officials and temporary staff.
In 2015, we employed 63 people: 30 officials, 17 temporary staff, 11 contract staff, four seconded national experts and one consultant.
In addition, we have provided 74 graduates with traineeships for a period of between three and five months.
On 31 December 2015, only 15 posts were not occupied by the Court (1.7% of the total number of posts).
Total 891 882 Total 891 882 Total 872 31 39 41 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 Control services 100 137 141 133 147 141 136 576 561 562 Services of the President Administration Translation 0 2013 2014 2015
Support for controls 51 Balance between men and women As with other EU institutions, human resources management and employment, we have a policy of equal opportunities.
For several years, we have been able to maintain the balanced participation of men and women among our employees.
The chart shows men and women at the level of responsibility at 31 December 2015 and in recent years.
Our action plan on equal opportunities aims to achieve a balance at all levels between men and women.
After the last recruitment waves, 50% of staff in grades AD 5 to AD represent 8 women (increase compared to 48% in 2014).
In the future, the share of women at the management level is expected to increase, thanks to the renewal at the higher and medium level of management and the increasing participation of women in the AD functional group.
The ratio between men and women at the level of responsibility 35 % 65 % of Anlande assistants Auditors ¢ Manage 59 % 41 % 69% 31% 0 % 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Supporting control activities 53 Age profile Age group 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 0,3% 3.0% 8.0% 13.7% 20.9% 20.9% 19.9% 20% 25% 4.1% 0.6% 5% 10% 150% Age profile of full-time workers on 31 December 2015 shows that 52% of our employees are 44 years of age or younger.
32 of 69 directors and managers (46%) are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, when these workers retire, they will be re-retiremented in senior management positions in the next five to ten years.
Support services Vocational training The controller profession requires continuous training to keep up with professional development and acquire new skills.
In 2015, our employees completed an average of 7.3 days of vocational training.
The participation of language courses in the total number of training days continues to decline.
Language courses accounted for 35% of the total number of training days in 2015 (compared with 43% in 2014).
Our main vocational training activities include the modernisation of our training programmes and closer cooperation with and beyond training offers in EU institutions and institutions.
We have ordered cooperation with the University of Lorraine in Nancy, France, in order to offer postgraduate studies to public and political and political organisations in the field of public research and master's studies in public organisations in the field of management.
Cooperation with the European Commission continued, which offers language courses for our staff and with the European School of Administration which supported us in organising training courses on personal skills in the field of skills in the field of training (soft skills) and ECA training day.
In addition, we have increased our offer of courses thanks to tailor-made e-learning courses and training in integrated learning.
In addition, we continued our successful series of presentations organised by internal and external experts on the development of research and other issues related to the work of our auditors.
Finally, we have introduced a framework for the awards of the cjonalizPerformance Recognition Awards in order to highlight the robots who do not work in managerial positions, with special trainings outside the Court.
Support for control activities 54 Translation Translation is one of the control support activities that allows us to fulfil our mission and achieve our communication objectives.
In 2015, the total volume of translations was as high as ever: almost 200,000 pages, almost 3 % increase compared to 2014.
About 99% of translations were completed on time.
In addition to normal translation work, our translators provided language and translation support during 26 EU-wide check-ups during internal events and meetings.
They also supported the preparation of preliminary comments and special reports and were thus more involved in the Court's central audit procedures.
In 2015, the Translation Directorate was optimised by creating a pool of assistants as a result of a review of the Court's translation and reform process.
The large project of the GroupShare Directorates will lead to significant improvements by further improving the functioning of the assistant teams to create space for improving efficiency and automation, thus improving the procedures of all language teams.
Information Technologies In 2015, the Directorate for Information Technologies focused its efforts on adapting our administrative information systems to cope with the successful reform of the Court and on preparing for the development of knowledge management to support the new organisational structure of the Court.
In addition, all functions of the full Assist audit documentation system2 have been put in place with regard to the statement of assurance, economic control and related reports, and the major project has therefore been completed.
Our new audit management system (AMS) has been launched: more than 300 plans have been created in the system and 180 audit tasks have been created and monitored by this instrument.
Based on the technical basis of the mobility introduced in recent years (the provision of the WLAN in all areas of the Court, the equipment of all laptop workers), the Directorate is currently focusing on global mobility, i.e. access to all content anywhere, at any time, and on all devices.
The project to develop a solution to ensure that workers have access to our information on all devices will help to maintain the functioning of the Court and to increase its effectiveness and effectiveness.
The maintenance of operational activities during the development and delivery of IT solutions was provided and the critical systems were 99.82% available.
Support for control activities 55 Management and infrastructure The task of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services is to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and fulfil its strategic objectives.
The Directorate shall also ensure that the necessary internal control, internal control, accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In 2015, the Directorate continued to focus on making its activities more efficient and efficient.
Due to the exceptional situation following the terrorist attacks in Paris in November and the crisis situation in Belgium in November, we stepped up our security measures and acquired the necessary security measures in public procurement procedures.
Information on public procurement is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
The Farm Building currently has three buildings: K1: K2: K2: and K3: and it rents small space for the IT center for data reconstruction and conference room.
The European Parliament also rents three offices in Brussels and one office in Strasbourg.
To ensure the cost-effectiveness of our building policy, we take into account three factors: purchasing, renting, additional costs and interinstitutional cooperation.
As in all areas of our business, in the development and implementation of our building policy, we try, as in all areas of our business, to establish and comply with the highest standards of transparency and accountability.
The Community Environment Management and Audit System (EMAS) The Community Environmental Management and Audit System (EMAS) is an instrument for the management of businesses and other organisations developed by the European Commission to assess, report and improve their environmental performance.
In 2014, we started developing an environmental management system2 which complies with the principles set out in the European EMAS standard provided for in the 2009 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council.3.
Our goal is to certify EMAS by the end of 2016.
In 2015, the EMAS project made the planned progress.
In July 2013, the EMAS project was launched at the Court.
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation of organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS).
Support for control activities 56 Financial information The Court shall be financed by the general budget of the European Union.
Our budget accounts for about 0.087% of total EU spending and 1.51% of total administrative expenditure.
In 2015, the total budget implementation available amounted to 98,68 %.
15th euro) 10th budget 1st budget 1st institution 10 171 10 054 99 % 9 978 12 budget 9 978 12 setting up officials and temporary staff 94 517 94 118 99 % 94 072 14 other staff and external services 4 651 4 559 98 4 5502 10 I for missions 3 600 3 162 88% 2 620 1616 1616 1616 16 16, 16, 16 6 and other expenditure on staff and staff of institutions 2 819 2 753 98% 1 903 Total Title 1 115 750 114 646 99 % 113 113 113 075 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment, equipment and various operating expenditure 20 and buildings 4 143 4 140 99% 2 10 1616 1616 1616 16 16 16, 16 6 and other expenditure on staff and staff of institutions 2 819 2 753 98% 1 903 Total Title 1 115 750 114 646 99 % 113 113 113 113 075 Title 2: buildings, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment and various operating expenditure 20 and buildings 4 143 4 140 99 2 07 210 210 2 0 2 057 1 5 2 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 1 2 2 5 5 15 5 5 2 2 15 2 2 1 5 2 2 5 5 8 10 1 1 0 12 1 1 0 1 9 10 1 1) 10 1 1 9 1 1 1 9 9 1 9 1 9 1 1 8 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 9 1 1 0 1 1 1 5 0 1 1 1 1 5 5 5 1 1 0 1 1 9 9 1 0 1 1 1 5 1 0 2 1 8 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 9 9 9 5 5 5 5 1 9 9 9 10 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 5 1 0 1 1 5 0 1 0 1 9 9 9 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 8 10 1 8 9 1 1 1 5 5 5 1 0 1 5 10 1 1 5 9 9 9 9 9 8 9 9 9 8 8 9 8 10 1 9 9 9 9 10 1 0 1 0 1 9 9 9 9 9 8 8 9 8 9 8 8 9 9 9 9 8 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 5 9 9 8 9 9 8 9 8 9 1 9 9 9 10 9 10 1 0 1 0 1 8 10 9 9 8 10 9 9 9 9 9 1 0 1 9 9 10 9 9 10 1 0 9 5 9 8 9 9 10 1 8 9
Support for control actions 57 Budget 2016 Budget 2016 Budget 2016 increased by 1.94% compared to 2015.
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on staff and expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the "Justice and security in the "Justice and Citizenship' policy area and on external staff in the area of "Justice and security' policy area and in the area of "Justice and security' policy under the "Justice' policy area in the area of "Justice and Citizenship' and in the framework of cohesion policy and cohesion policy and cohesion policy and of the "Justice and Citizenship' policy area within the framework of cohesion policy and cohesion policy.
Supporting control measures 58 The Court, like other EU institutions, is subject to a discharge procedure.
In April 2015, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2013, which means that our 2013 annual accounts were finally approved.
We have looked closely at the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our responsibility for audit and management and have taken appropriate action in the framework of our reform.
We have told the European Parliament about our follow-up.
Internal audit and external audit The internal audit department shall provide advice to the Court on risk control by issuing opinions on the quality of internal management and control systems and recommendations on improving the management of our operations and the promotion of sound financial management.
In addition, the services support the work of the external auditor, the task of which is to certify the Court's annual accounts.
Finally, the Internal Audit Department shall provide information on the relevant risks and corporate governance issues.
The internal audit department will be supervised by an Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and an external expert.
The Committee shall regularly monitor progress in the implementation of the various tasks set out in the work programme of the Internal Implementation Division in the work programme.
The Committee shall also ensure the independence of the internal audit department.
In 2015, the Inner Review Service gegenstandslos prepared specific reports on strategic issues such as the changes in our annual report, the mid-term review of the implementation of our strategy for 2013-2017, as well as the review of the implementation of the recommendations under the peer review procedure and the European Parliament.
Taking into account the recommendations of the Department of Internal Audit of 2014, according to which the internal control cycle should be strengthened, we have updated our IT security system and formalised the existing risk management framework and existing guidelines.
The Tatsächlich Internal Audit Office monitored the implementation of the new guidelines and ensured that their recommendations were taken into account.
Every year we report to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
External audit of the Court Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same principles of transparency and accountability as they apply to the entities to which the Court is investigating.
The auditor's report on any PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à r.l. on our financial statements for the financial year 2014 was published on 15 September 2015.
Therefore, in accordance with our beliefs, the annual accounts provide a true and reliable view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2014, the financial position and cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation. As regards the use of resources and the control procedures, our actions, as described in this report and as these actions have not been taken in relation to our fundamentals.
Declaration by 60 of the authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that, as authorising officer by delegation, the information contained in this report is correct and accurate and • I confirm with sufficient assurance that the appropriations for the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, the costs and benefits of the checks established are justified in order to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the correct management of the allegations of fraud and suspected fraud.
This security shall be based on the assessment given by the undersigned and the information available to him, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers by subdelegated officers, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's reports from previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 25 February 2016.
Approved to reproduce or reproduce the following photos should be obtained directly from the copyright holder: © EU 2015, Source: European Court of Auditors, p. 1 (picture 3), p. 2, p. 5; architects of the buildings of the European Court of Auditors: Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013) and Paul Noël (1988). © Supreme Court of Auditors (NIK), p. 38 / Photo: Krzysztof Andrzejewski.
European Commission - Source: European Commission - European Commission - Sub-Committee - Sub-Committee, European Commission - Source: Source: Source: 2015 Source: © EU - European Commission - EU - Source: © 2015 Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service - © EU - Photos: Maciej Szkopanski - Photos 1 - © EU - © EU - 2014 Source: European Commission - Audiovisual services - Etienne Anskot, Source: source: © EU © EU - source: © EU - source: source: © EU - source: source: © EU - European Union - Commission - 2015;
EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF AUDITORS PL 2017 Activity report
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2018 Print ISBN 978-92-872-9644-3 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-9665-8 HTML ISBN 978-92-872-9455-5 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi: 10.2865/281586 doi: 10.2865/91294 doi: 10.2865/9124 QJ-AA-18-001-DE-C QJ-AA-18-001-DE-N QJ-AA-18-001-DE-Q
01 Images will best revive the last 40 years.
These pictures show the daily work of hundreds of workers who have worked on the farm in recent decades.
The selection of these photos was published in 2017 on our website (eca.europa.eu) and on social media (@EUAuditors).
The European Court of Auditors 02 Court of Auditors The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is an external auditor of the EU and one of the seven institutions of the Union.
The College of the Court has 28 members, one of each EU Member State.
The Court employs around 900 employees of all EU countries employed by auditors and administrative staff.
It was built in 1977 and is based in Luxembourg.
The Court's tasks are to verify that the EU ensures sound financial management, that financial rules are properly complied with and that EU policies and programmes are used optimally.
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the EU's financial management and to improving accountability and transparency.
It warns against threats, ensures security of control, points to shortcomings and successes, and provides guidance to policy makers and EU legislators.
The Court presents its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, the national parliaments and the general public.
Building of the European Court of Auditors at the Placeau Kirchberga in Luxembourg, 2017
Heading 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 Pre-word of the President 5 2017 at a glance 6 Our actions 6 Audits 8 Publications 19 Important events 21 Cooperation with institutional recipients 24 Cooperation with the highest audit bodies 26 Our management 26 College of Court Members 26 Audit Chambers and Committees 28 Strategy 29 Work plan 29 Measurement of achievements 34 Our employees 34 Staff allocation 34 Employment 35 Age profile 35 Sustainable relations between women and men 37 Support for audit activities 37 Professional training 37 Staff translation 37 Information technologies 38 Building 39 Environmental management 40 Court's liability 40 Financial information 42 Internal and external audit 44 Declaration of authorising officer by delegation 45 Annex - Publications in 2017: Special reports, opinions and publications based on analysis
Preface of the President 04 Dear Reader, dear reader!
In 1977, the European Court of Auditors started its work 40 years later, bearing in mind many successful contributions to the EU's public responsibility and financial management.
In October 2017, an official ceremony attended by Her Majesty the Grand Duke and Grand Duke of Luxembourg, President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani and President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker, took place on the occasion of the jubilee of the court.
Their participation in the event is to a large extent proof that the Court is a financial institution of the European Union.
However, during the course of the year, we also had to look forward.
In this way we discussed and agreed on a strategy for the remaining three years of the current multiannual financial framework by the end of 2020.
Our citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that they do not lose confidence in the EU and its bodies.
People need to see that the EU is acting honestly, upholding the rule of law, using public resources, aiming to achieve clear political goals and to achieve the goals it promised.
As an external auditor of the Union, we are well prepared to examine these aspects and to report on them.
We have issued special reports throughout the year on a wide range of EU policies and programmes and based on an analysis of publications, such as land analysis and rapid analysis.
We have also drawn up several opinions on legislative proposals and we have drawn up an annual report on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund, as well as on EU agencies and many other EU bodies.
This activity report provides a comprehensive overview of our activities in 2017 and provides important information on the Court, its budget and its staff.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President
2017 for the 05 operations Our management • 28 special reports for analysing the effectiveness and added value of EU policies and programmes in areas such as youth unemployment, the environment, migration and the banking union; • Landscape analysis of EU action in the field of energy and climate change, as well as a rapid analysis of employment reduction in the EU institutions; • five opinions on new or revised EU legislation having a significant impact on financial management, including the opinion on the Financial Regulation for • the EU budget and the opinion on the financing of European political parties; • Annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and on the European Development Fund activities, together with a summary report, including a 2016 EU summary report, the effectiveness of EU research activities on the EU• 55 specific annual reports on the financial reports of individual EU agencies, bodies and joint enterprises, including two summary reports; • meetings, seminars and conferences with our institutional addressees and colleagues, such as a meeting of the Climate Change Contact Committee and Climate Change Committee.
We welcomed two new members: Juhan Parts (Estonia) on 1 January 2017 and Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary) on 1 September 2017 • We issued a new multi-annual strategy that serves as a guide for our work and management between 2018 and 2020. We also revised our work plan to provide a more strategic, coherent and coherent approach that will apply to the whole Court as regards the planning of our audit priorities. We also tested our risk management policy and strengthened our financial procedures. • We continued to reduce positions agreed between the EU institutions and, at the same time, we implemented a policy of equal opportunities for recruitment and management of human resources.
Our activities 06 Checks We carry out different types of controls in different areas of the EU budget: • Performance checks in different areas: in this respect the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EU policies and programmes are analysed.
It focuses on specific management or budget issues that we choose on the basis of criteria such as the public interest, potential for improvement, the risk of insufficient efficiency or irregularities; • accounting audits and audits of compliance with the rules on financial liability, including the reliability and legality of the underlying transactions (in particular with regard to the statement of assurance) and the assessment of whether systems or transactions in specific budgetary areas comply with the rules and regulations.
Based on the evidence gathered during our audit work, our reports have made clear conclusions on the achievement of the EU policy objectives and on the situation of the Union's budgetary and financial management.
This information will help us to make appropriate recommendations in terms of cost-effectiveness.
Verification visits in 2017 Most of the audit work is carried out at the Court's premises in Luxembourg.
At the same time, in 2017, our auditors carried out numerous audit visits to other EU institutions, agencies, agencies and agencies and EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States and international organisations, such as the United Nations, which participate in the allocation of EU funds.
We also carry out on-the-spot checks on beneficiaries of EU funds within and outside the European Union.
These controls provide direct evidence of controls from stakeholders involved in the management of EU policies and programmes and the collection and collection of EU funds and their payment.
Checks are our core activities The frequency and intensity of our control activities in individual Member States and beneficiary countries depend on the type of controls we have carried out.
In 2017, our auditors spent 3,670 days on on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU (2016: 4 246 days).
In the EU, on-the-spot checks are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities in the Member States visited.
3 670 days of on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU in 2017. In addition, our auditors spent 2 300 days (2016: 2 510 days) in the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, and in decentralised agencies and agencies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations, OECD and audit firms.
In order to obtain and validate examination documents, we increasingly use videoconferences and other information technologies (such as secure data exchange and documents).
Our activities 07 5 970 test days in 2017 Spain Italy Poland France Germany United Kingdom Czech Republic Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Estonia Netherlands Ireland Austria Sweden Finland Denmark Latvia Slovenia Slovakia Malta Croatia Cyprus Luxembourg Niger Georgia Nigeria Bulgaria Georgia Angola Angola Switzerland Guinea-Bissau Zimbabwe Burkina Faso Malawi Mali Bosnia and Herzegovina Jordan Barbados United States Ghana Sudan Ethiopia Turkey Myanmar/Bissau 293 280 260 377 371 153 EU Member States (3 215 test days) 5970 test days Third countries (455 test days) EU institutions and bodies (2 300 test days) 129 125 125 117 116 103 93 84 68 66 55 52 52 32 23 23 23 18 10 10 10 11 13 13 19 20 20 20 20 23 26 26 38 41 46 0 100 100 150 250 250 300 350 400
Our actions 08 Detecting fraud In the fight against fraud from the EU budget, we work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
Next, OLAF shall take further action to take a decision on a possible investigation and, where appropriate, cooperate with the authorities of the Member States.
In 2017, although our controls are not specifically designed to detect fraud, during our audit work from time to time we may encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraud.
In 2017, we handed over 13 such cases to OLAF (2016: 11 cases) where fraud was suspected. We suspected that fraud was committed as part of our audit activity as regards the assurance of the financial years 2016 and 2017 as well as the other audit tasks.
Publications Our publications: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and publications based on analysis Our reports and opinions constitute an important link in the EU reporting chain, because they are used to attract bodies responsible for EU financial management, in particular in the framework of the annual discharge procedure.
In shared management areas, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States play an important role, as in the case of agricultural and cohesion expenditure, and thus around 80% of the EU budget is being implemented.
Our range of publications includes: • specific reports showing the results of selected audits on specific policy areas or expenditure or budgetary or management issues; • annual reports containing mainly the results of audits on accounts and audits of compliance with the rules on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund, taking into account the issues related to the management of the budget and the results; • specific annual reports on the agencies, decentralised bodies and joint undertakings of the EU; • opinions on new or revised acts which have a significant impact on financial management, drawn up at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative;
Our activities 09 • Analysis-based publications: • Landscape analysis is a descriptive and analytical document on complex, broad policy areas or management-related issues, in which, often from a cross-cutting perspective, we present our experiences and knowledge on the subject selected; • Thematic analysis is similar as it is also a descriptive and analytical document on policy or management; • in the Rapid Case Reviews it presents and presents facts related to very specific topics or problems.
All publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
In addition, all special reports, opinions and publications based on the 2017 analysis are at the end of this report.
100 90 80 70 60 40 30 20 10 0 Total: 93 3 28 55 52 Annual reports ** Number of publications in 2017 Publications based on analysis of Special Opinions Annual Reports* 2017 * Special Annual Reports and Summary Reports on EU Agencies and Joint Undertakings ** Annual Implementation Report of the EU budget, Annual Report on European Development Funds and Summary Report on the EU Review in 2016.
Our actions 10 Annual Implementation Report for the EU budget for the financial year 2016 In our Annual Implementation Report for the financial year 2016 we analysed the use of the EU budget in the analysed financial year and in what areas the risk that EU funds were not properly used was greatest.
In addition, we have made a special assessment of all important areas of the EU budget, based on the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020, based on information on budgetary and financial management and on information on results.
We also looked at why errors were made and made recommendations for possible improvements.
The audit of around 1000 payments made to beneficiaries from the EU budget for 2016. Our auditors examined around 1000 payments made to beneficiaries in various areas of expenditure in the EU budget.
This means that we have analysed about 1000 different cases where EU funds have been used to support major infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries outside the EU.
When we present our 2016 annual report, we begin the discharge procedure Publication of our annual report starts the discharge procedure for the European Parliament for the implementation of the EU budget.
On 28 September, we presented our annual report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT) and then to the plenary session of the European Parliament, the ECOFIN Council 28 and the national parliaments of the Member States.
Our actions 11 Our annual accounts show a real and fair picture; the proportion of irregular expenditure continued to fall in 2016. The main conclusions in 2016 in the annual accounts in 2016 were drawn in line with international principles and in all relevant respects show a true and fair picture of EU funding.In 2016 no significant errors were observed.In recent years, the level of error in payments in the EU budget continued to improve: 2016: 3.1 %, 2015: 3.8 % and 2014: 4.4 %.
In 2016, a significant proportion of the expenditure audited... payments based on entitlements (as opposed to payments based on the reimbursement of payments) were temporarily not affected by errors. In most areas of the Commission's reporting of regularity largely agrees with our results.
However, the Commission should simplify the measurement of the results, for example by reducing the number of targets and indicators and the corrections made by the Member States and the Commission, have had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Without these measures, the overall estimated error rate would be 1.2 percentage points higher.
However, sufficient information was available to prevent, detect and correct a significant proportion of errors.
Our actions 12 The annual report on the implementation of the EU budget contains for the first time an opinion on the regularity of EU spending Lazaros S. Lazarou, for the first time, a member of the Court responsible for the annual audit report, which is responsible for the annual audit report, the error rate is less than 2%, the error rate is more than 2% but only in some areas of the budget, but only in some areas is more than 2%, and the error rate in the budget as a whole is historically significant.
As regards compliance with expenditure legislation, for the first time, we issued an opinion with reservations and for the first time and without failure. As regards the comparison of the estimated error rates for EU expenditure areas (2014-2016) estimated error rates of 5,7 5,7 5,6 2014 2015 5.2 4,8 4,1 3,6 2,9 2,5 2,8 2,1 0,6 0.5 for expenditure on economic, social and territorial cohesion 0,2 for the competitiveness of the EU in terms of capacity to manage resources in the world, growth and employment
Our actions 13 Our institutional addresses also need information on the results of EU spending this year, the tight opinion on the audit results shows a significant improvement in EU funding this year.
In the future, we will be thinking about how we will examine the EU budget in the future: "We will take greater account of internal controls at the level of the European Commission and of the Member States in order to better promote responsibility and further improve the EU's financial management in this area."We will also pay greater attention to performance aspects in order to ensure the optimal use of EU funds for these citizens. In this respect, it is important to pay attention to the results and results of EU spending as well as to the results, as stressed by Joachim Zeller, Member of the European Parliament and rapporteur for the 2016 discharge: Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, during the presentation of the annual report at the European Parliament plenary meeting in Strasbourg on 4 October 2017.
Our actions 14 Annual report on the European Development Funds Financial support is provided under the European Development Fund (EDF) for the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and the overseas countries and territories.
The EFF is financed by the Member States and managed by the European Commission and by the European Investment Bank (EIB) for certain grants and outside the EU budget.
Around one third of the total number of errors in the EFF is due to non-compliance with public procurement rules.
Other significant types of errors concern, inter alia, expenditure which has not actually been incurred or which is not eligible for funding.
Our annual report on the EDF will be published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Special annual reports The agencies and other EU bodies and European Joint Undertakings are based in different EU Member States and carry out specific tasks in areas which are of key importance for EU citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice and research.
In 2017, the Court examined whether the Agency's annual accounts were reliable and whether the underlying transactions were in accordance with the principles.
When drawing up an opinion on the Agency's annual accounts, as far as possible, we took into account the audit work carried out by audit firms.
We have also checked the communication infrastructure of Sisnet, the European Schools, the conditional commitments of the Single Committee on Restructuring and Restructuring and the liquidation of the Galileo Joint Undertaking.
We have worked on consolidation of results and we expect to publish a single report to the agencies in 2018. and the main figures of the EDF budget 2016 3.4 billion EUR verified the amount of EUR 2.8 billion in the account Unique income Unauthorized payments To a large extent in (estimated error rate of 3.3%) (i) the main data The Court examined 45 agencies and other EU bodies, the 8 Joint Undertakings Budget 2016 a total of EUR 5.2 billion in 2016. In total, around 11 000 employees the Court published 55 special annual reports, including two summary reports.
Our 15 agencies' activities (a budget of EUR 3.4 billion, 10 364 employees) Our audit showed that the financial statements of all the 41 agencies provide a true and reliable picture of the situation.
The financial transactions underlying the annual accounts were legal and regular in all agencies, with the exception of the European Asylum Support Office, for which, due to non-compliance with public procurement rules, we have issued a limited opinion.
The Joint Undertakings (EUR 1.8 billion budget, 633 employees) The accounts of all eight Joint Undertakings were reliable.
They have created, in all relevant respects, the relevant financial situation and financial situation of the Joint Undertakings, as well as the results of their operations and cash flows for 2016.
Moreover, the transactions underlying the annual accounts were in line with the rules in force in seven Joint Undertakings, with the exception of the ECSEL Joint Undertaking, which we have judged to a limited extent as we have not been able to obtain sufficient security as regards the reliability of internal control with regard to the payment of grants to FP7.
All special annual reports and two summary reports are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Special reports In 2017, we published 28 special reports.
In these reports, we have examined in particular whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved effectively and economically, whether the EU funds have added value.
We have also made recommendations on improving financial savings, better working methods, prevention of waste, or more cost-effective achievement of the intended policy objectives.
Special reports examine in particular the effectiveness, efficiency and efficiency of EU policies and programmes, focusing on issues of relevance to the EU, such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, economic growth and the promotion of social inclusion, migration and global development challenges, the internal market and the banking union, and ensuring the accountability and accountability of the European Union.
Here we will discuss two of these 28 special reports: a special report on food waste, which examines whether EU policy has been able to solve this problem throughout the food supply chain, as well as a special report on the Greek financial crisis which examines how the EU reacted as part of the economic adjustment programmes to the financial and debt crisis in one of its Member States.
Our actions 16 COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND JOBS FOR ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND JOBS • JOBS • FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENTS • Uniform European air systems • Guarantee instrument for SMEs • Youth unemployment • Drinking water Special reports: Special reports of the Court for 2017 EUROPA IN THE WORLD • Honduras • Tunisia • Disaster management • Mobilising national income in Africa • • Registration centres of migrants (hotspots) • Trafficking in human beings • Trust fund Bękou • Monitoring the elections: FINANCIAL INDISTRACTION Special reports: Special reports: • Food waste • Natura 2000 •. Food • Food control • Food control • Rural mobility • Rural development • Environmentalisation Special reports: Africa Customs control • European Union Court of Justice • Financial management of the Greek Commission • Financial Crisis.
Our actions 17 Special Report: Avert food waste: A chance for the EU to improve resource efficiency in the food supply chain is a global food waste problem that has been a global problem in recent years that is increasingly at the heart of public and political debate, in particular in view of the need to feed the growing world population.
Current estimates indicate that around one third of food produced for human consumption worldwide is wasted or lost, resulting in high economic and environmental costs.
EU auditors have examined the role that the EU can play in the fight against food waste The Court's auditors have in particular examined the actions taken so far and the way in which the various EU policy instruments can act in order to reduce food waste.
The priorities for combating food waste include prevention of food waste and facilitating food donation, as these two aspects are, first and foremost, in the fight against food waste.
Our auditors consulted the Commission's officials responsible for the policy, carried out documentary checks and carried out checks in five Member States: Italy (Lazio), the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Finland.
They visited the appropriate ministries and visited the place.
In addition, relevant stakeholders were consulted in the field of food production, retail trade, research and charitable organisations.
The approach so far is fragmented and inconsistent and coordination at Commission level is uncertain.
Our report sets out a number of unused opportunities and potential improvements which would require no new legislation or additional public funding, and the auditors recommended a better alignment of existing policies and a clear political objective of reducing food waste.
The report was submitted to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU and several national parliaments across the EU.
Both the European Parliament and the Council welcomed the report and adopted its conclusions.
The report also noted a significant echo in the media, in particular in social media.
Our actions 18 Special Report: The role of the Commission in the Greek financial crisis in Greece needed support to ensure financial stability After the financial crisis in 2008 there was an economic crisis in Europe and a debt crisis, which revealed the weaknesses of the Greek economy.
Greece was no longer able to finance itself in the financial markets in April 2010 and has therefore requested financial assistance from the euro area Member States and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Since then, Greece has been involved in three economic adjustment programmes managed by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF in the so-called "troika."
The third programme also involved the European Stability Mechanism (EMS).
The total support of EUR 368.6 billion was based on political conditions which were jointly defined by the Greek authorities and creditors.
These programmes aimed to stabilise Greece's economic situation by meeting the financial needs of the Greek economy, which was intended to prevent the crisis being transferred to the rest of the euro area.
In return, Greece committed itself to carrying out extensive structural reforms.
EU auditors have examined whether the Commission has properly managed the economic adjustment programmes, including a number of performance checks carried out by the Court in recent years, on the measures and reforms taken in response to the financial crisis in 2008.
Our auditors assessed how the Commission applied the first two programmes for Greece and how it developed the third programme.
They checked the documents on EU financial assistance programmes, examined the terms of the programmes and consulted the Commission staff, the staff of national authorities (such as specialised ministries), the Bank of Greece, the Bank, economic operators, the IMF staff, the European Stability Mechanism and the OECD..................effective adjustment programmes for Greece: despite shortcomings, progress in the reform process, etc.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
However, the programmes in Greece have achieved only limited regeneration.
The auditors also found that the Commission had no experience in managing such a process, that the conditions of the programmes had not been sufficiently high priority, had not been included in a broader strategy for Greece, and that the macroeconomic assumptions of the programmes had been extraordinary.
This special report has been submitted to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and to the institutional stakeholders in Greece.
This report was the subject of extensive media coverage and reached the biggest media echo of all the special reports that we published in 2017.
Our activities 19 Important events of the 40th anniversary of the European Court of Auditors October 12th, 2017, the hall of the Luxembourg Congress Centre The 40th anniversary of the establishment of our institution took place in the presence of Her Majesty the Grand Duke and the Grand Duke of Luxembourg and the Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel.
The ceremony was opened by our President Klaus-Heiner Lehne, after which Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia, and Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, spoke.
In addition to the ceremony, an annual conference was held during which the Presidents of the EU Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (EURO Contact Committee) and CMR Presidents of the candidate and potential candidate countries met.
Left to right: Henri Grethen, Member of the Court; Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg; Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Her Royal Royal Princess and Grand Duke of Luxembourg; Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament; Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission
Our activities 20 The Conference of the Court on Youth Employment on Challenges and Solutions 10 May 2017, the European Parliament, Brussels The Conference was organised after the publication of our special report on the Youth Guarantee, in which, as in other reports, the effectiveness of EU policies in dealing with youth unemployment in EU Member States has been examined.
During the conference, Iliana Ivanova, the rapporteur member, and the inspectors with the high-level representatives of the EU institutions, the institutions of employment and youth, discussed whether EU policy should produce results and the best way forward.
The Court's Conference on EU action in the field of energy and climate change on 17 October 2017, the European Parliament, Brussels The Conference was an integral part of our work on the analysis of EU action in the field of energy and climate change, which was presented in September 2017 and then in Bonn at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP23).
The Conference of the Court has created a platform for stakeholders and key stakeholders in this area, both from the public and private sectors, to discuss future challenges.
It shall be organised jointly by the Court and the European Parliament's Scientific Service.
The conference was opened by Phil Wynn Owen, rapporteur member, and Jerzy Buzek, President of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy of the European Parliament.
The conference was attended by representatives of Member States, EU institutions, the highest audit bodies, NGOs and NGOs, as well as Members of the European Parliament, scientists and our auditors.
Left: Phil Wynn Owen, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Jerzy Buzek, Member of the European Parliament; Anthony Teasdale, Director-General of the European Parliament's Scientific Service Left to right: Marianne Thyssen, Member of the Commission; Pavel Telička, Vice-President of the European Parliament; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Commission; Iliana Ivanova, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Martin Dlubajová, Member of the European Parliament
Our activities of 21 Symposium of the Court on regulatory evaluation 23rd November 2017, the European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg The two-day symposium on regulatory evaluation was attended by around 100 representatives of universities, research centres, international organisations and European, national and regional institutions.
During the symposium, the opinions presented by the participants under the open invitation were presented and discussed.
The symposium was headed by Danièle Lamarque, a member of the Court, and was organised in cooperation with a professional scientific journal by Jojusz Politiques et management publicjà.
This is important because the impact of our work depends largely on the benefits of our results and recommendations from the audit.
It is therefore important that we take their concerns and proposals into account when planning the annual work programme.
The European Parliament In February 2017, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne presented the Court's work programme for 2017 to the parliamentary body coordinating the work of the European Parliament's committee (conference of committee presidents).
The Council invited all Parliament's permanent committees to propose possible audit tasks under the 2018 Work Programme.
Three quarters of the parliamentary committees have made proposals, of which about two thirds have been included in our work.
Exchange of views with the Conference of the Chairs of the European Parliament's committee chaired by Cecilia Wikström
Our activities 22 In April 2017, President Lehne took part in the debate at the plenary session of the European Parliament on the 2015 discharge procedure.
In September 2017, he presented the Court's annual report for the financial year 2016 of the Committee on Budgetary Control of Parliament and the Plenary Assembly in October 2017.
The President of Parliament, meeting at the Conference of Presidents, invited Lehne to the November 2017 meeting to discuss the Court's strategy and work programme.
For our members it is customary to present CONT our reports and other results of our work.
During the year we gave almost 60 lectures in front of this committee.
Members of the Court shall also exchange with other permanent committees and delegations.
In 2017, we presented our reports to these committees and delegations, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
In addition, our members participated in the meetings of the coordinators of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as they expressed their particular interest in our audit activities.
Parliament also invited us to present our special report on migrant registration centres (hotspots) at the conference on migration management.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors and Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, at a press conference held in June 2017 with the President of the European Parliament's political groups, in November 2017, in Strasbourg, the Council, during the Maltese Presidency, President Lehne and a member of the Court of Leo Brincat (Malta) met in Valletta (Malta) in June 2017 with the Maltese Ministry of European Affairs, Helena Dalli and Secretary of State for European Funds and Social Dialogue Aaron Farrugia.
In September 2017, during the Estonian Presidency, President Lehne, Member of the Court of the Juhan Parts (Estonia) and Member of the Institutional Relations of Rimantas Šadžius met in Tallinn with the Prime Minister of Estonia, Jüri Ratas and Prime Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnist.
During the year, the representatives of the two Council Presidency also visited the Court in Luxembourg.
In November 2017, President Lehne presented our annual report to EU finance ministers at the ECOFIN Council in Brussels.
At the working level of our main partner is the Budget Committee of the Council, which deals with all financial matters, including the discharge procedure.
In 2017, our auditors attended several meetings of the other preparatory bodies of the Council in order to present the Court's reports. This mainly concerned working groups in the framework of the... of structural actions... of bodies... of actions for the environment... and... of environmental actions.... and in the framework of the Council............................................................................... and.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Minister of Finance of Malta, Edward Scicluna, will visit the European Court of Auditors on 29 March 2017.
The photo also features a member of the Court of Justice of Leo Brincat (left) and the President of the Court of Klaus-Heiner Lehne (in the middle).
This year, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne met with numerous representatives of high-level governments in the EU Member States, including President Andrzej Duda of Poland in Warsaw, President of Portugal Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and Prime Minister António Costa of Portugal in Lisbon, Prime Minister of Spain, Mariano Rajoy in Madrid, and the French Minister of European Affairs, Nathalie Loiseau, and French Minister of Action and Public Finance, Gérald Darmanin in Paris.
During each visit he was accompanied by one of the members of the Court: Janusz Wojciechowski (Poland), João Figueiredo (Portugal), Baudilio Island of Muguruza (Spain) and Danièle Lamarque (France).
Meeting with Poland's President Andrzej Duda (Warsaw, February 2017) Meeting with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy (Madrid, March 2017) In 2017, our members presented the Court's annual report on the 2016 financial year to national Parliaments in 14 Member States: the Czech Republic, Greece, Spain, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Finland and Sweden.
They have also submitted a number of special reports to the relevant national parliamentary committees.
Meeting with French Minister of Public Finance and Public Finance Gérald Darmanin (Paris, December 2017)
Our activities 24 Cooperation with the Supreme Audit Authorities Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the EU Member States In 2017, we organised and chaired the Annual Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the 28 EU Member States.
The discussions focused on the role of the ORKB in restoring the confidence of EU citizens in national and supranational state institutions.
In addition, the Court has participated or participated in the activities of the working bodies on the following issues: the European Banking Union, the Structural Funds, the Europe 2020 strategy, financial policy control, VAT, public sector accounting rules in the EU Member States (EPSAS) and the prevention and prevention of irregularities and fraud.
The ORKB network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries In addition, we support ORKB of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Kosovo*, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey).
In 2017, nine ORB examiners took part in our internship program in the network.
In addition, we have actively participated in several meetings and activities of this network, including in anti-fraud and corruption activities, as well as in workshops in which we have participated in auditing of financial statements and auditing of compliance.
In addition, we participated in a parallel survey of profitability in the field of public procurement, which was conducted under the leadership of the Swedish ORB.
The purpose of this meeting was to adopt a work programme for 2018 and beyond. * This name does not affect positions on status of Kosovo and is in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the declaration of independence of Kosovo.
Interviews between representatives of the EU Contact Committee in the Conference Room of the European Court of Auditors Meeting of the EU Contact Committee, 12-13.
Our activities 25 INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2017 we continued active participation and participation in INTOSAI activities, in particular in our role as Vice-President of the Technical Standards Committee and as a member of the Audit and Audit Committee, the Committee for the Verification of Progress and Economic Audits and the Sub-Committee for Economic Audits.
In addition, we actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI bodies and EUROSAI bodies.
Our mandate as a member of the EUROSAI Bureau ended with the 10th EUROSAI Congress in May 2017. • INTOSAI in 2017... International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities • EUROSAI in 2017 European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities • EUROSAI Audit Working Group in 2017, October 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg.
Our management of the 26 College of Members of the Court The term of office of Members of the Court lasts six years and is renewable.
Members shall carry out their activities in the full independence in the general interest of the EU.
They swear before the Court of Justice of the European Union that they swear by swearing by that position.
The College shall have 28 members, one from each Member State.
Individual members shall be appointed by the Council of the EU after consulting the European Parliament in accordance with the proposals of the national government.
In 2017, the Council appointed two new members: • Juhan Parts (Estonia), who took office on 1 January 2017; • Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary), who took office on 1 September 2017.
The Chairpersons shall elect a Chairperson from among themselves for a period of three years and may elect again.
The President's role is a priority between Pares (let's get to the bottom of the matter that we're gonna get the yayy y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yy y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yy y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yy y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yy y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y
In addition to other duties, the President shall monitor and represent the Court outside.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany) was elected President.
The Audit Chambers and Committees The members belong to one of the five Audit Chambers of the Court, which adopt audit reports, opinions and other analytical publications.
The Chambers shall be managed by Doyen elected from among the members.
Each member shall be responsible for his or her specific inspection tasks.
Members shall be assisted by their office.
In December 2017, five examination chambers were managed by the following Doyens: Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom), Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria), Karel Pinxten (Belgium), Baudilio Faroe Islands Muguruza (Spain) and Lazaros S. Lazarou (Cyprus).
Danièle Lamarque (France) chaired the Quality Control Committee.
Rimantas Šadžius (Lithuania) was responsible for coordinating the interinstitutional relations of the Court.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, the Chair of which shall be the Chair.
In 2017, the members of the Court of Auditors met at 21 college meetings.
Photo: College meeting on 7 September 2017.
Our management 27 Organizgram of the European Court of Auditors (State: 31 December 2017) Chairman and Sustainable Use of Natural Resources Phil WYNN Owen United Kingdom Nikokoos Milionis Greece Janusz WOJCIECECHOWSKI Poland Samo JEREB Slovenia João FIGUEIRREDO Portugal Klaus-Hei JEI LEHNE Germany Iliana IVANOWA Bulgaria Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Ladislav BALKO Slovakia George PUFAN Romania Oskar HERICS Austria Chamber III-E-Poli-polisi outside, security and justice Karel PINXTEN Austria Belgium Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Ville ITÄ LALUBSEN Denmark Juhan PARTS Estonia Chamber IV Market regulation and competitive economy Baudiio TomÉ MUGURURUZA Spain Kevin CARDIF Ireland Neven MATETS Poland Alex BRENNNENJER Denmark LADŽIUS LYE CUE LUE LUE LNE HUE KUE KUE KUE KE KE K KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KOW KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KUE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE K K KE KE K KE KE KE K KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KNE KE KUE K KE KE KE KE K KE K KNE K K KE KE K KE KE KE KE K KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE K K KE KE K K KE KE KE KE KEN KE KE KE KE KE K K KE KE KE KE KE KE KE KE K KE K KE KE K KE KE KE K K KE K K KE KE KE K KE K KS K KE KE KE K KE KE K K KE KE KE KE K KE KE KE KE KE KE K K KE K K
Our governance 28 Strategy The next three years will be a very important time for the European Union to take key decisions.
We are aware that EU citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that the EU can effectively address the challenges that we are facing.
Citizens must see that the EU works honestly, respects the rule of law, acts cautiously, strives to achieve clear objectives and achieve the expected results.
As an EU external controller, we can contribute to this process.
Our strategy for 2018-2020: increasing trust through external financial control In July 2017, we published our strategy for 2018-2020 in which we set four strategic objectives: • pointing our addressees in a clear way, • focusing more on the performance aspects of the EU's activities; • Improving the added value of the statement of assurance; • focusing on our products across the organisation.
Finally, the EU is not about figures, but about people As part of external financial control, the Court can show what is working and what is not, it can help EU citizens to help them help them to answer the question of whether the EU institutions are working to help them to increase confidence in the EU.
In this context, the Court's audits must also take into account the concerns of European citizens, their most important addressees at the last instance.
The Strategy for 2018-2020 sets out five priority areas for the Court's activities in the coming years.
Sustainable management of natural resources and combating climate change Investments for cohesion, growth and integration Migration, security and sustainable development challenges in the world A functioning internal market and a stable monetary union Funding and management of the Union with respect for accountability and cost-effectiveness
Our governance 29 While developing our strategy, we attach great importance to internal and external consultations.
We discussed the strategy with our employees and addressed Members of the European Parliament, representatives of the EU Member States, the European Commission, other supreme audit authorities and stakeholders other than institutions, such as scientists, tankers, NGOs (NROs) and private sector auditors.
The Court's 2018-2020 strategy is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Work Planning In January 2017, we decided to introduce new work planning procedures, which we applied for the first time to our annual work programme for 2018, published in October last year.
Main changes to our work plan: • drawing up a list of audit tasks for the whole Court; • centralised procedure for the selection of audit ideas, possible audit tasks and final audit proposals; • more flexible allocation of resources and allocation of resources between each audit chamber, including the workload; • extending the scope of products to audit tasks including analytical publications; • defining audit tasks of a high priority for shorter deadlines.
In addition, we agreed with the conference of the chairmen of the European Parliament's committee on a procedure in which all the permanent committees of Parliament may propose to the Court a potential subject of scrutiny.
The Court's 2018 work programme is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Measurement of results In 2013-2017 we used seven key performance indicators (KPIs) to inform management of progress in achieving our goals, to support decision-making and to provide information to addressees about our achievements.
These indicators were used to measure the basic parameters concerning the quality and impact of our work, with particular emphasis on the views of the main recipients and the effectiveness and effectiveness of the use of resources.
A revised set of performance indicators will be introduced in 2018 and will apply for the period 2018-2020.
Quality and impact of our work We assessed the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of the evaluations of the addressees and evaluations carried out by experts and the next criterion of the evaluation was the follow-up of our recommendations to improve the EU's financial management.
Our management 30 Evaluation of the addressees We have asked the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgets of the Council, the Commission and the European Agencies and the EU-ORKB Presidents to evaluate our reports.
As in previous years, the vast majority of respondents estimated that, in 2017, our reports were very sublime or very touching.
Each year independent external experts review the content and presentation of the sample of our reports in order to assess their quality.
In 2017, the auditors assessed six special reports* and the 2016 annual reports.
They assessed the quality of the various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from a large extent to a narrow one (1) to a narrow one from the most valuable one (4).
The results in recent years have changed slightly and the quality of our reports is assessed as satisfactory in 2017-2017. * In 2017-2017 the auditors assessed our special reports Nos 3/2017, No 4/2017, No 5/2017, No 10/2017, No 14/2017 and No 17/2017.
Evaluation of addressees Evaluation of quality of reports Likely impact of reports 2 100 % very low 16 61 21 21 37 37 5 0 20% very high 40 % 60 % 80 % low average evaluation of reports of the Court by experts 2017 2016 2015 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.1 Quality assessment 01234
Our management 31 Monitoring recommendations During the year we systematically checked the extent to which our recommendations were implemented by the evaluation bodies.
This was the case for 92% of the 2014 recommendations by the end of 2017.
100% 80% 60% 60% 40% 20% 0% Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the distribution year 92% 80% 59 % 53 % 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Court in the media mirror 31% 4% 65% of the Court's Annual Special Reports on the overall media presence In addition, we follow in the media reports on our work and institutions.
In 2017, 65% of the internet media references to our work and our body referred to special reports.
In total, compared with 2016, the number of media reports from our special reports increased by 11%.
The Court's reports, which received the largest echo in the media in 2017, included specific reports on the Greek financial crisis, on the registration centres of migrants (hotspots), on fisheries control, on greening and on the network.
Our management 32 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 Special reports of the Court 1974 The average number of online articles in the Special Report for 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The increase in the report in the media for 2017 reflects the trend observed for several years.
While less than 1500 articles were published on the Internet in 2013, the number increased in 2017 to almost 7000 and the average number of articles in the special report increased from an average of less than 30 in 2013 to almost 130 in 2017.
The largest media contributed to our special report on the Greek financial crisis, in which over 2000 online articles and contributions to social media are used in social media, and in particular to assess our use of resources, and in particular the timely monitoring and implementation of our work programme, and to ensure the expertise of our employees.
The audit period In 2017, an average of 14.6 months elapsed from the beginning of the audit task until the adoption of the special report.
This is the shortest processing time since the beginning of the period 2013-2017.
It took us less than 13 months to produce eight reports (29%) published during the year.
It took an average of 16 months to publish the reports and about two months less than in 2016.
This positive trend shows that measures to achieve the 13-month objective set out in the Financial Regulation are effective.
18 17 16 15 14 13 12 2013 2015 2015 2015 2016 2017 Period from the start of checks to the adoption of the report
Our management 33 Publication of reports In 2017, 65 percent of our special reports were published according to the original plan.
Other reports were postponed and published in 2018.
In addition, our annual reports and all special annual reports have been published as planned.
Vocational training As recommended by the International Accounting Association (IFAC), we are trying to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of vocational training per year.
In 2017, we again exceeded this goal by using 6,7 days of training for one controller.
Taking into account also the language courses necessary for the effective functioning of our auditors in all EU Member States, the controller in 2017 represented an average of 8.3 days of training.
For other employees, our goal is to provide an average of 16 hours (two days) of vocational training (without language courses).
This target was reached on an average of 2.3 days of training in 2017.
Average day of training for an examiner in the year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Objective ≥ 5 days 6.2 7.0 6,7 2015 2016 2017 days
Our staff 34 Human Resources Allocation In 2017, we completed a staff reduction of 5 % over a five-year period (2013-2017), in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement of December 2013 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
At the end of 2017, 853 officials and temporary staff worked in the Court. 548 of them worked in the control chambers, including 118 staff in the members' office.
The employment of the Court's employees has a broad academic and professional context.
Our employment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promotes equal opportunities at all levels.
The staff shall consist of both officials and temporary staff.
General selection procedures are usually organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
In 2017, the Court had 72 staff: 29 officials, 13 temporary staff, 24 contract staff (of which seven had left the Court by the end of the year) and six seconded national experts.
In addition, we provided 71 graduates with traineeships for a period of between three and five months.
Allocation of human resources of the Court 137 138 123 124 49 43 Control services 2017 Translation of the Service Administration of the President Total: 853 553 548
Our staff 35 Age profile The profile of active staff on 31 December 2017 indicates that almost half of our employees are 44 years of age or younger.
31 of the 68 Court's directors and managers (46%) are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, in the next five to ten years, these workers will retire and become senior managers.
A balanced relationship between men and women is being pursued by the Court by a policy of equal opportunities, which covers all stages of the career of its employees.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced share of men and women among our employees; 43% of our auditors and boards are women.
In recent years, we have managed to increase the participation of women in managerial positions in our examination chambers from 7% in 2015 to almost 20% in 2017.
We continue to fight to strike a balance between men and women at all levels of governance.
Our policy of equal opportunities for the years 2018-2020 also addresses issues related to age and disability.
The following table provides more detailed information on the nationality and gender of managers.
Age profile 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0% 0,3% 2,3% 4,8% 0.4% 5% 7,6% 17,0% 10% 15% 20% 25% 17,1% 10,8% 21,0% 18.0% Gender/female responsibilities 34% 66 % assistants and administrators Managing 57 % 43% 63% 37% 0 % 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
In 2017, we developed our training offer, including increasing the number of courses in the field of e-learning and integrated learning (Blended Learning).
We continued our successful series of presentations organised by internal or external experts on the development of the audit situation and on other issues related to the work of our auditors.
We have also organised a number of training courses and events, during which experts from other highest audit bodies have presented knowledge and best practices in audit and audit of performance.
A good example is the annual Vocational Training Day in November 2017, which, in cooperation with the University of Luxembourg, we organised in cooperation with more than 300 employees.
We work closely with the European Commission, the European Institute of Public Administration (EIPA) and the European School of Administration (EUA) to offer our employees a wide range of training courses, including specific training in the field of audit and training on the development of personal skills and language courses related to work.
We have also helped our employees to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and qualifications in areas relevant to the role and work of the Court.
In particular, we continued to cooperate with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France), where postgraduate studies, audit of public organisations and police officers and master studies, and management of public organisations are offered.
We also signed a cooperation agreement with the European Institute of Higher Education in Florence, Italy.
In 2017, we established a partnership with the University of Pisa (Italy) and the Accounting Association (ACCA) to organise a summer course in financial control and public responsibility.
Last year we awarded the best contribution with the award awarded by the Court in 2016 for the scientific work in the field of control in the public sector.
37 We continued our Owautant Recognition Award..., which allows employees who do not take management positions to take part in specialized external trainings.
Translation of the Directorate for Translation, Language Services and Publications of the Court has translated and improved more than 211 000 pages.
We continued our efforts to improve translations and reduce costs.
For example, all our translation teams are currently using a common working platform to increase productivity.
We are trying to increasingly involve our translators in our core activities and create more synergies with our auditors.
In particular, in 2017, translators increasingly supported auditors in drawing up special reports and annual reports.
In addition, on 38 audit visits, they provided linguistic assistance to our auditors.
Information Technologies Our IT management contributes significantly to our audit processes by optimizing the flow of information through modern and secure technologies.
We have made further progress in document management and have fully digitised production, reception and publication processes.
We have introduced a simplified tool to facilitate remote access to mobile devices.
In addition, we have carried out an upgrade of the system (the installation of Windows 10 and SharePoint 2013).
To make even better use of interinstitutional synergies, we have introduced new audit management systems, business trips and training, which are currently being used by other EU institutions.
Support for control activities 38 Building The farm currently has three buildings (including K1objects, K2objects and K3w) and rents office buildings for the data restoration center in Luxembourg.
K1 K1 building, opened in 1988, has office rooms for up to 310 staff and conference rooms.
There are parking lots, technical devices, warehouses, libraries and main archives, while the entire top floor is used for technical devices.
The K1 building was modernised in 2008 in order to adapt it to national health, safety and environmental requirements.
The technology in the K1 building has been adjusted as far as possible in order to comply with the K2 and K3 buildings.
In this way, these three buildings constitute one integrated technical unit.
K2 K2 building was opened in 2003.
The missiles include parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses and a fitness centre.
The entire top floor is used for technical installations.
Other missiles are used in offices for as many as 241 staff, in which there are conference rooms, conference room with conference rooms, video conference room, café and dining room.
The Court has commissioned a study to assess the feasibility of setting up areas of work related to K2 and the modernisation of the technical installations.
The study shows that the structure of working areas could be improved and that some technical installations need to be modernised.
In 2018, a detailed examination of this project will be carried out and work will begin in 2019.
As the Council and the European Parliament approved in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining resources in the framework of the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation.
Security control centre 2018 27 m2 2 K1 1988 26 550 m2 310 K3 K2 2003 21 500 m2 241 year construction Total gross area (m2) Employment 2012 34 500 m2 503
Support for control activities 39 K3 Building K3 was opened in 2012.
There are parking lots, technical installations, warehouses, unloading zones, waste disposal facilities, printers, kitchens and archives.
On the ground floor there is a cafeteria, cafeteria and training rooms.
In addition, this building includes offices for 503 staff, conference rooms and IT room.
On the sixth floor there are reception rooms, kitchen and technical equipment.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) K3 was rated very well and very well.The Environmental Assessment Method (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment (BREEAM) was evaluated very well and very well.The Environmental Assessment Method (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment (BREEAM).
Project for safety at work In 2017, the project for safety improvement continued as planned.
A new security control centre, an external accreditation centre and an access control centre for employees and visitors will be launched in 2018.
Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, we consider it our duty to respect the principle of sound environmental management in all activities, and we aim to continuously reduce the Court's environmental impact.
In 2017, we received an EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme) certificate.
We successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements set out in ISO 14001:2015.
Our goal is to systematically reduce CO2 emissions.
In 2017, in the third year in a row, we analysed greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our activities (i.e. our CO2 footprint).
The results of this study are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Liability 40 Court Financial Information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union and its budget falls within the scope of administrative expenditure.
In 2017, the Court's budget was around 141 million euro.
This represents less than 0,1% of the total EU expenditure or around 1.5% of the total EU administrative expenditure.
The budget share for 2017 was 98%.
.. 10.... Pa Members of institutions 11 200 10 6672 95 % 10 598 12 698 12.. Officials and employees employed employed employed employed on time of institution 102 470 101 088 99 % 101 010 14. 14 Officials and external services 5 716 5 464 96 % 5 333 per.. for. business trips 3 450 3 035 88 2 575 161 +16 470 101 088 99% 101 010 14. for.. on. institutions 2775 2 530 91% 1901 Total Title 1 125611 122 789 98% 121 417 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating expenditure 20... Bu 450. 3 546 3 541 99% 1 669 210. on...., services and telecommunications 8 148 8100% 4 563
The Court found that, for the 2018 budget, compared to 2017, for the 2018 budget, the level of responsibility of 41 of the 2018 budget increased by 3.4%.
Budget 2018 10 transfer 10 members of institutions 12 benötigt officials and temporary staff 14 transfer 14 for and transfer information and publications 12 515 11300 10 600 103 632 5 745 5 101 3 450 2 930 3 216 7 492 7 408 1 157 955 438 706 676 1876 2306 BUDGET 2018 Title 1: Members and staff of institutions (euro week) 161 + 216 + 165 2 ) 2 990 2788 Total Title 1 131300 126 271 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating expenditure Total Title 2 1471 676 1876 2306 BUDGET 2018 Title 1: Members and staff of institutions (thousand euro) 161 + 416 + 165 for 415 Other expenditure for members and staff of institutions 2 990 2788 Total Title 1 131300 126 271 Title 2: Buildings, equipment and various operating expenditure Total Title 2 1416 14 49016 6 total 144016 14240
Court's liability 42 Risk management In a year's time, in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation, we have checked the risk assessments for each Directorate.
The results of these checks should be taken into account in the annual declaration by the authorising officer by delegation in the annual activity report and used for the risk assessment for the following year.
If necessary, we have prepared action plans for ex ante and ex post controls.
In September 2017, after carrying out these checks, we strengthened internal controls and financial procedures concerning travel costs and the management of service vehicles.
The internal audit and external audit of the internal audit service shall fully advise the Court on issues relating to risk management.
The Commission shall issue opinions on the quality of the internal management and control systems and shall report to the internal control committee of three members of the Court and to the external expert.
The Committee shall regularly monitor progress in the implementation of the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the internal audit body in the implementation of its tasks and shall ensure its independence.
In 2017, the Agency examined the implementation of the Court's 2013-2017 strategy, the operational structure of the President's Service Directorate, as well as the management of licences and software products.
The Commission has also examined the implementation of risk management policies by the Court and has monitored the implementation of the recommendations in order to ensure that action plans are drawn up.
The internal auditor considers that in 2017, the existing procedures for the management, management and internal control of risks generally provide sufficient assurance of the achievement of the Court's objectives.
Every year we report to Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
External audit Our annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same principles of transparency and accountability to the bodies they have audited.
The auditor's auditor's report was awarded to PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à r.l. on the Court's accounts for the financial year 2016 and was published on 31 October 2017.
The Court's discharge discharge, like the other EU institutions, is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2017, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2015.
This means that our annual accounts were finally approved for 2015.
As every year, we have carefully analysed the issues raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our responsibility for audit and management, we have applied the appropriate measures and we have voted to the European Parliament for our successful actions.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1), hereinafter referred to as "the Financial Regulation' (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1), and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No substrates of 29 October 2012 on rules for the application of Financial Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 on rules for the application of the Court's Financial Regulation and control procedures for the use of resources and control procedures:) During the work described in this report, we did not find any statements that, in all relevant respects and taking into account the above evaluation criteria, the appropriations allocated to the Court and the procedures not implemented, and taking into account Council Regulation (EC) No8/2012 of 25 October 2002 on the financial rules applicable to financial operations and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the general budget applicable to the general budget of the Union, and to the Financial Regulation and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial rules applicable to the general budget of the European Union.
Declaration by Delegated Officer 44 of the authorising officer I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that, as authorising officer by delegation, • • - that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate and I declare with sufficient certainty that the appropriations for the actions described in this report have been used for the purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, the control procedures established in such a way as to ensure a reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, and to the appropriate handling of the allegations of fraud and suspected fraud, are proportionate to the costs and benefits of the control.
This security shall be based on an assessment of the signed and the information available to it, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers, the internal auditor's reports and the opinions of the independent auditor on the previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 8 March 2018.
Reinforcement....P...P...P...P....P...P...P.......P.........P......P.....P.....P.....P......P..P......P....P......P.....P......P.....P......P.....P......................P......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Publications payable: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu). © European Union, 2018 Authorization is allowed with the indication of the source.
DE 2018 Activity Report
EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditors 02 Many information about the European Union can be found on the Internet (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2019 Print ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-1854-2 HTML ISBN 978-92-847-1818-4 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/092674 doi:10.2865/049466 doi:10.2865/607255 QJ-AA-19-001-DE-C QJ-AA-19-001-DE-N QJ-AA-19-001-DE-Q
1 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors on 1 May 2018
Content Preface of the President 5 2018 at a glance 6 Our actions 7 Strategy 7 In the centre of attention 6 around our products 8 Audits 10 Work plan 12 Audits on site 13 Publications 17 Important events 37 Relations with institutional addressees 41 Cooperation with the highest audit authorities (ORKB) 44 Our management 46 College of Members of the Court 46 Audit Chambers and Committees 49 Performance measurement 50 Our employees 58 Our employees 58 In posts 58 Age profile 59 Balanced gender-to-female ratio 60 2
Support for control measures 62 Vocational training 62 Translation 63 Information, working environment and innovation 64 Buildings 65 Improving Court's security 67 Environmental management 67 Court's responsibility 68 Financial information 68 Internal and external control 70 Declaration by authorising officer by delegation 73 Annex Matrix Publications in 2018: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and products analysis 74 3
The European Court of Auditors 4 The Court of Auditors is the external auditor of the European Union.
It was established in 1977 and is one of the seven EU institutions.
The Court is based in Luxembourg and employs around 900 employees from all EU countries, including controllers and employees of horizontal and administrative services.
The College of the Court shall be composed of one member of each EU Member State.
The Court's tasks shall verify that the EU ensures that its financial rules are properly applied and that its policies and programmes and programmes are consistent with the objectives and ensure that the funds are used optimally.
Together with the audit work, the Court contributes to improving the EU's financial management and to promoting accountability and transparency.
The Court makes its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national governments and national parliaments and the general public.
Preface of the President 5 Dear Reader, Dear Reader!
We have increased our efforts to assess the results of EU actions, to make our statements clear to the Court's addressees and to increase the value of our work for our stakeholders.
In this activity report we present a review of our work in 2018, in which we have so far published the largest number of special reports, analyses and opinions.
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances.
Our reports ensure an impartial evaluation of the Union's policies and programmes and the quality of the EU's financial management both within and outside the European Union.
We are checking whether EU spending is in line with the rules and whether EU policies and programmes ensure the optimal use of resources.
We will be pleased to work with the newly elected European Parliament and the new European Commission to further improve the EU's financial management and ensure results in the EU.
In this report, we express our determination to continue to adapt the organisation of the Court to "prepare us for the future" and to continue to support the developments in the control situation in the public sector.
2018 at a glance 44 record publications submitted by EU legislators 43 European Parliament 44 Global Audit Leadership Forum Leadership Council, organised by around 45 international activities About 45 workers from all Member States took part in 50: 50 Returns from LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGE COOPERATION AND LANGUAGE WORK: Limited opinion on EU financial reporting in opinions: 10, mainly on the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 Impact of our work: Limited opinion on payments 6 in publications: 35 Special reports 9 publications based on the analysis record number of publications Most of our recommendations of the High Charter: +17 000 online articles 4 new members of the Court 5 The renewed term of office in the social media by our addressees believes that our work is useful and effective.
Our 2018 strategy is the first year of our current strategy, which refers to the period up to and including 2020.
Our strategic objectives for this three-year period are: to increase the added value of the statement of assurance for the current EU financial management, to give greater emphasis to the performance aspects of the EU's activities, to give clear statements to our addressees.
Furthermore, we have agreed to make our organisation more focused on our products.
As regards the implementation of our strategy, we have agreed on an action plan for these objectives, to continue to be among the leading leaders in the development of the public sector.
All these measures were applied at the end of 2018.
At the same time, we have commissioned an independent peer review procedure to implement our strategy, which should end at the end of 2019.
Progress towards achieving our strategic objectives 7
In the focus of the communication activities of our products in the communication of clear communication information to our addressees, our strategic objective is to provide clear information to our addressees, including the EU's action bodies and the Member States responsible for the control and management of EU policies and programmes, for the other supreme control bodies, for businesses and industrial organisations, for researchers and, in particular, for the general public, in our focus.
In 2018, we learned how much the media are interested in our work.
In particular, our special reports have met with great media interest, and have been increasingly discussed in national and EU media channels, in particular in the section on media presence.
In 2018, we published 12 examinations forecasts (formerly referred to as "documents ") that serve as a source of information for people who are interested in specific policy areas or programmes that are audited.
The information provided therein shall be based on preparatory work prior to the commencement of the ongoing examination task.
The audit forecasts contributed to the stable and balanced results of the Court's publication throughout the year: 2018 was the first year in which there was not a single month without the publication of the European Court of Auditors.
In 2019 we will continue to publish such communication products. 8
Journal While our findings and recommendations on improving EU financial management are presented in our audit reports, in the Court's Journal, our working methods and staff working on reports in various fields and fields.
Now each edition is devoted to another overarching theme.
In 2018, the editor of the Court addressed a number of issues such as EU aid, Parliament's financing and audit, the EU's financial and economic governance, and our special reports, our work programme, our international cooperation and our future actions to "arm the Court for the future."
View from our configuration 9 Downloads 2018 2017 9 314 16 357
Research More focus on results We carry out various types of controls in various areas of the EU budget: o Control of the implementation of the budget on the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EU policies and programmes, which focus on specific governance and budget issues.
In the selection and organisation of such audit tasks, the Court shall take into account the risks of cost-effectiveness or compliance, the level of revenue or expenditure, and the political and public interest, accounting audits and compliance audits, taking into account the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying financial operations, in particular as regards the reliability of the statement of assurance and the assessment of the compliance of the systems in certain areas of the budget.
Our random random procedures ensure the same probability of carrying out checks for each euro issued.
Our research focuses on issues that reflect issues relevant to the EU, such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, economic growth and social inclusion, the challenges of migration and global development, the internal market and the banking union, and ensuring the accountability and cost-effectiveness of the European Union.
On the basis of the evidence gathered in our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the achievement of the EU policy objectives and the state of budgetary and financial management of the Union.
Our tests are in line with international public sector control rules.
The examination work consists of the following stages: 10
PLANNING Fixing the suitability and feasibility of the proposed study.
BEFORE THE FORM CONTROL COOPERATION Multi-disciplinary teams collect evidence of on-the-spot checks at the Commission's headquarters and in the Member States and beneficiary countries.
CONTENTS 03 04 05 06 11 01 02 A clear and orderly presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
KLIMAT Confirmation of facts and findings by the audited entity.
Adoption of the report by the Audit Chamber or by the entire College of the Court.
PUBLICITY Publication of a special report in 23 official languages together with the response of the audited entity.
Planning work The audit priorities are based on main EU issues Our work programme is adopted annually by the members of the Court.
In January 2018, President Lehne presented the work programme for the 2018 Conference of Commission Chairs of the European Parliament and asked all Parliament committees to propose potential topics for the review of the 2019 work programme in the framework of the annual stakeholder consultation.
12 In October 2018, we published the first work programme prepared in accordance with the new strategy. In this 2019 work programme we presented our audit priorities and 36 reports and analysis-based products, the publication of which is planned for this year.
These tasks included, at least in part, 29 of the 69 requests submitted by Parliament (42%) (2017: 32%).
Our research will continue to focus on important issues such as sustainable use of natural resources, economic growth and social inclusion, migration, security and global development, the single market and the EU's responsibility and cost-effectiveness to determine whether the EU will achieve what it has promised.
On-the-spot checks 3 761 days of audit work in and outside the EU Most of our examination work is carried out in the premises of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
At the same time, our auditors carry out numerous visits to the European Commission to the main body verified by the Court at the same time as the other EU institutions, agencies and bodies and EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, as well as international organisations and international agencies, in order to finance the EU.
In addition, in and outside the European Union, we carry out on-the-spot checks on the beneficiaries of EU funds.
Through these controls, we can understand the audit path and obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes and in the collection or payment of EU funds and from the relevant beneficiaries13.
The frequency and intensity of our control work in individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the type of controls we have carried out.
In 2018, our auditors spent 3,761 days (2017: 3,670 days) on on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU.
In the EU, our on-the-spot checks are often carried out in conjunction with the highest control authorities in the visited Member States.
In addition, our auditors spent 2 723 days (2017: 2 300 days) in the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, and in decentralised agencies and agencies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations, OECD and audit firms.
In order to obtain and approve exam evidence, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies, such as secure data exchange and documents 14.
15 Italy Poland France Spain Greece Portugal Netherlands Czech Republic Bulgaria Slovenia United Kingdom Lithuania Finland Denmark Estonia Austria Hungary Cyprus 40 Belgium 38 Ireland 37 Slovakia 34 Latvia 22 Croatia 12 Malta 10 Luxembourg 3 Saint Lucia 1 Saint Lucia 1 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1 Albania 3 Dominica 3 Switzerland 6 Canada 10 Norway 11 Algeria 14 Botswana 18 Laos 19 Tunisia 19 Kenya 20 Ethiopia 21 Niger 21 Sierra Leone 23 Guinea 25 Ukraine 25 Djibouti 26 Japan 26 United States 26 Isr ael 27 Mozambique 28 Barbados 30 Haiti 33 Turkey 33 231 185 176 147 136 122 101 94 87 85 85 64 56 56 355 335 335 292 third countries (489 test days) 6 480 test days of EU institutions and international organisations (2 723 test days) of which are Brussels and Luxembourg (1 637 test days) EU Member States (3 272 test days) 0 50 100 150 200 300 400 Note: derogations for cardiovascular sums and Turkey.
Combating fraud to the detriment of the EU budget Nine suspected cases of fraud In the fight against fraud from the EU budget, we work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
OLAF will, if necessary, continue these cases by deciding on a possible investigation and by cooperating, if necessary, with the authorities of the Member States.
Although our controls are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we sometimes find cases where we suspect irregularities or cases of fraud.
In 2018, we handed over nine of these cases to OLAF (2017: 13 cases) where fraud was suspected.
For further information on the nature of the suspected fraud of OLAF and the related recovery as recommended by OLAF, see our annual reports on the EU general budget 16.
Publications New record: the highest number of publications in 2018 Our audit reports, analyses and opinions are an important part of the EU's liability chain.
They assist the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union in monitoring and verifying that the EU achieves its political objectives, and in particular in clearing the bodies responsible for EU financial management, in particular in the framework of the annual discharge procedure.
These are primarily the European Commission, but also other EU institutions and bodies.
National, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role in the areas of shared management, where most of the EU budget is spent, including agriculture and cohesion.
Number of special reports and publications based on analysis (2015-2018) 17 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2015 2016 2017 22 38 30 44 year Number of publications
As regards our publications: Special and annual reports on Special Reports on the results of selected audits on specific policy areas or expenditure or budgetary or management issues; annual reports on the results of audits of the accounts and audits of compliance with the rules on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund, as well as the reports on budgetary management and results; on the specific annual reports on EU agencies, decentralised agencies and joint undertakings.
Opinions and publications based on an analysis of opinions on new or amended legal acts which have a significant impact on financial management, which are mandatory under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) or are drawn up at the request of another institution or on its own initiative, on thematic documents are descriptive and analytical documents on policies or management which focus on specific topics; on ground-based analyses are similar to thematic documents, but focus on complex, broad policies or management issues, often from a cross-cutting perspective; on rapid Case Reviews containing information related to very clearly defined topics or problems; where necessary, they are based on an assessment that will allow a better understanding of these facts.
Finally, we provide basic information on future or ongoing control tasks in the form of previews in the chapter on communication activity around our products.
All the Court's publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu) and are at the end of this report 18.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Special reports Evaluation of the results of EU action in our Special Reports In line with the 2018-2020 strategy, we are increasingly focusing on assessing the results of EU action in order to ensure the optimal use of EU funds by EU citizens.
In 2018, 35 special reports (2017: 28 special reports) were published on the different areas of EU spending in which we discussed the challenges facing the EU, such as air pollution, the high-speed rail network, the refugee instrument in Turkey, the banking supervision and funding of non-governmental organisations (NROs).
In these special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved effectively and economically, whether the EU measures have provided added value, whether they have been achieved more than through action at national level.
In addition, we make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, prevention of waste, or more cost-effective achievement of policy objectives.
Here we will discuss two special reports in 2018: a special report on high-speed railways in the EU and a special report on a refugee instrument in Turkey.
In accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, we are trying to prepare our special reports within 13 months 20.
COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND JOBS FOR GROWTH AND GROWTH 21 Special reports: • JASPERS • Employee mobility • Project sustainability • Public-private partnership • Construction of broadband • Use of cohesion spending • Fast rail transport • Project effectiveness • Erasmus+ • Simplification under Horizon 2020 • Passenger and driver rights • Driving licences Special reports of the Court in 2018: • EU assistance to Myanmar/Birma • Pre-accession assistance to Turkey • EU assistance to the Sahel region • Africa.
Special report on the European high-speed rail network: not the reality but the inefficient high-speed rail plan brings many benefits to passengers.
It is a convenient, safe, flexible and ecological means of transport.
Improving the links between the regions in the EU enhances their competitiveness and contributes to European integration by bringing people closer together.
In this way we analyzed various connections, driving times and prices for business and private individuals.
We also examined whether co-financed investments on high-speed lines were cost-effective, effective, well-thought-out and planned.
The Court found that the European high-speed network is only an inefficient combination of high-speed rail lines from individual Member States that are not sufficiently interlinked.
There is no realistic long-term plan for connecting different parts of the existing EU network; high-speed lines crossing national borders are not the priorities of the Member States and the European Commission does not have the power to force the Member States to do so.
In such circumstances, the EU's financial contribution to the high-speed railways represents little added value.
However, we have one good news: the number of high-speed passengers in Europe is increasing steadily, and in 1990 the number of high-speed passengers increased from 15 billion passengers to 124 billion passengers in 2016.
Both institutions welcomed the report and agreed with our proposals.
We have also presented it to numerous national and national authorities, as well as to researchers, stakeholders and media.
Across the EU, the media, in particular EU-oriented media and financial media, in particular in Spain and Germany, have fully addressed this report.
DE cincità nell'Ue, la Corte dei Conti europea boccia la rete UK c' Financial Times: Block criticised over high-speed rail strategy ES speed: Los cinco días: Los auditores de la EU critican la incoherencia de los trazados del AVE
Special Report The Programme for Refugees in Turkey: although helpful, the optimal use of the funds can only be achieved through the improvement of Turkey's situation, which affects almost 4 million people, is as large as in any other country in the world.
About 3.5 million of these refugees are Syrians, most of whom live outside refugee camps.
Support under the Refugee Instrument in Turkey, which the EU and its Member States have received for a total amount of EUR 6 billion, includes humanitarian actions and not humanitarian actions for refugees and host communities.
Under the political agreement, Turkey was committed to ending the illegal migration from Turkey to the EU.
Humanitarian projects could meet the basic needs of refugees, but in some cases the expected optimal use of the funds has not been achieved, nor has the objective of effective coordination of this support been achieved.
The humanitarian projects audited provided help to refugees.
For example, social security in emergency situations supported 1.3 million refugees by helping in cash.
However, for half of the projects, the expected effects in the greater half of the projects are higher in the greater extent of the effects that they are able to maintain, without further financial support, they are not expected to achieve, and for nine out of ten projects, nine out of ten projects of the next six projects on the day.
Due to the difficult working environment, the implementation of projects managed by NGOs was difficult in due time.
This was due to the Turkish authorities' refusal to grant the data of the potential beneficiaries of the two cash aid projects in our sample of a total of EUR 1.1 billion in the amount of its data.
We presented our report at a joint meeting attended by the Committee on Development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
It was also presented to the EU Council's enlargement and candidate countries and the press.
In particular, in Germany, this report was of great interest to the media, but also to Denmark, Austria, the Benelux countries and the Mediterranean countries, and to the EU-oriented media.
25 DE in: Court criticised the shortcomings of the EU aid for FR refugees in EurActiv: La Cour des comptes lutôt satisfaite de l waite aux réfugiés en Turquie ES: Turquía debe rendir cuentas por la gestión de los refugiados UK in: EU Observer: EU unable to fully trace €1 bn spent on refugees in Turkey
Annual Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2017 Annual Annual Report for the financial year 2017 Annual Report for the financial year 2017, Full Audit Opinion on revenue, Limited Audit Opinion on expenditure Every year we check the revenue and expenditure from the EU budget and check that the annual accounts are reliable and that the revenue and expenditure operations comply with the financial rules of the EU and the Member States.
In addition, we assess all relevant areas of the EU budget, we, in particular, on the basis of the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020, providing information on budgetary and financial management and information on results.
We also examine why errors have occurred, we make recommendations for possible improvements, and we assess whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been implemented.
As part of our last annual report on the EU budget for the financial year 2017, our auditors have examined a sample of some 700 payments worth a total of EUR 100 billion to beneficiaries in the various spending areas of the EU budget.
This means that we have analysed about 700 different cases where EU funds have been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutes, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support non-EU beneficiaries.
• Basic data EU expenditure 2017 EUR 137.4 billion • EUR 100.2 billion (703 payment transactions) • Accounting • • • • • Accounting • • • • • • • • • • • • Accounting • Accounting • • Accounting • Accounting • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  • • •  •
The downward trend in the estimated error rate continues in this extensive work as the basis for our statement of assurance to be presented to the European Parliament and the Council, in accordance with our mandate as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
As in previous years, the Court issued an unreserved opinion on the reliability of EU accounts and revenue.
In addition, in the second year in a row, we were able to deliver an opinion on EU spending to a limited (and not disappointed) extent.
A significant part of the expenditure audited in 2017 did not show a significant error rate.
In addition, the estimated error rate in payments in 2017 was 2,4% after the error rate in 2016 was 3,1 % and 3,8% in 2015.
The establishment of the discharge procedure by Parliament The publication of our annual report is at the beginning of the discharge procedure by the European Parliament, in which, on the Council's recommendation, the decision on whether the management of the EU budget by the Commission and other bodies is satisfactory.
On 4 October, we presented our annual report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control at the same time as its publication and then the plenary session of the European Parliament and the Economic and Financial Affairs Council, as well as at the meeting of the national parliaments and the authorities of 14 Member States.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors and Mr Lazarou, Member of the Court, during the presentation of our annual report at the European Parliament plenary session in Strasbourg in November 2018 28
As regards cohesion expenditure, we have assessed the control and reliability framework for 2014-2020 and the reliability of the information provided by the Commission on regularity.
This was the first step towards the creation of a possible certificate of assurance as a test based test.
Overall, through a change of approach and a transition to a test-based audit, we intend to take better account of the different levels of internal control in the European Commission and the authorities of the Member States responsible for managing EU expenditure.
In this context, it is more clear where there are still shortcomings in both the European Commission and the Member States, which allows us to contribute to the promotion of accountability and further improvement of the EU's financial management.
This approach shall apply only if the relevant conditions set out in the international audit rules are met. 29
Annual report on the European Development Funds Audit report on payments under the European Development Fund (EDF) The European Union shall support development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific States and with overseas countries and territories.
The EDF shall be financed by the Member States of the Union and managed by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank outside the EU budget.
The main data on our opinions on the EDF are presented below.
Special Annual Reports Agencies and other bodies Unqualified opinion for all EU agencies, except for one EU agency, has its seat across Europe and employs around 11 000 employees.
The total budget of all agencies for 2017, with the exception of the Single Committee on Restructuring and Structured Restructuring and Structured Restructuring, amounted to EUR 3.5 billion, representing around 2.7% of the total EU budget.
The budget of the SRB for 2017, financed by the contributions of credit institutions, amounted to EUR 6.6 billion.
European Medicines Agency (EMA) in London, which will be moved to Amsterdam New Approach: one report on all 41 EU agencies In 2018, we decided to present in a more user-friendly format the results of controls in the EU agencies.
While we continued to provide individual statements of assurance for each agency, we published one annual report for all agencies, including a summary document entitled "Consumer information on the audit of EU agencies."
As every year, we also publish our annual reports on the European Schools and the conditional commitments of the SRB, the Commission and the Council 31.
The Council decided to transfer EMA and EBA to Amsterdam and Paris in 2019 following the UK decision to withdraw from the EU.
Joint Undertakings The unconditional evaluation of all European Joint Research Undertakings other than the Joint Undertaking is an EU public-private partnership with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is a member of the Joint Undertaking of the public sector and represents the EU.
Private members include various industrial and research partners.
One of the main objectives of the Joint Undertaking is to collect contributions from the private sector and the research sector from members, which is their added value.
33 Main conclusions Overall, our evaluation of the Agency for the year ending 31 December 2017 confirmed the positive results of previous years.
About We issued an opinion without reservation on the reliability of the accounts of all agencies; on unlimited opinions on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts of all agencies; on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of all agencies; on the legality and regularity of the accounts of all agencies; on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts of all agencies; and on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of all agencies; on the opinion on the legality and regularity of the accounts of all agencies; on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of all agencies; on the legality and regularity of the accounts of all agencies; and on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of all agencies; on the legality and regularity of the accounts of all agencies; on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of all agencies, with the exception of the reservations on the reliability of the accounts of the accounts of all agencies; and on the reliability of the accounts of the accounts of all agencies; on the reliability of the accounts of the accounts of the accounts of all agencies; on the accounts of the accounts of the various problems identified.
The main requests for we confirmed the accounts of all EU Joint Undertakings for the financial year 2017 and confirmed their credibility. The Seven Joint Undertakings received the full opinion of the audit of revenue and payment transactions.The Joint Undertaking "The electronic components and systems of the leader of Europe" received a limited opinion from the audit, because the auditors detected problems which, in some cases, conflict with effective internal control.
Opinions also contribute to improving the EU's financial management by publishing opinions on the Commission's proposals for new or revised legislation.
Where such acts are acts having significant financial implications, the Court is required, in accordance with EU law, to deliver an opinion.
They are primarily used by the legislative body the European Parliament and the Council in their work.
Opinions may also be initiated at the request of other institutions or at the Court's own initiative.
In 2018 we issued 10 opinions In 2018 we issued the largest number of opinions on governance in the EU.
Firstly, they concerned mainly the Commission's legislative proposals on the new multiannual financial framework, such as the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP), the effectiveness of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and its cooperation with the future European Public Prosecutor's Office.
In its opinion on CAP reform, a greener and more coherent CAP is needed, which focuses more on accountability When the European Commission published its legislative proposal on the new CAP after 2020, it stressed that environmental and climate objectives would be given priority.
However, in our opinion on CAP reform, we have noted that many proposed policy options differ slightly from the current CAP system.
In particular, the majority of the budget will continue to constitute direct payments to farmers on the basis of the number of hectares of own or used.
We have also noted that this instrument is not the most cost-effective way of supporting appropriate income and that it does not take into account many environmental aspects.
In addition, the Commission's assessment of the CAP's contribution to the EU's climate targets appears unrealistic and the Court therefore recommends greener and more coherent plans for the next CAP, which should focus more on accountability. 34
In accordance with the procedure that we apply to our reports, this opinion has been submitted to the Commission of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council, the environmental and agricultural stakeholders and the press. 35
Analysis-based publications: Landscape analysis, Rapid Case Reviews Analysis, Rapid Case Reviews A comprehensive analysis, and own analysis of the Landscape Court In 2018, we prepared two analyses of Landscape.
In the first instance, the Court took up the practical application of Union law and pointed out that the Commission's supervisory activities in the application of Union law by the Member States should be strengthened.
In the second analysis of the Leader programme, we dealt with mobility and transport and recognised them as the basis for European integration.
However, we have been concerned about the delays in investment, as investment in transport infrastructure will decrease, which slows down the modernisation of the transport network in the EU.
Thematic documents A total of six thematic documents were published in 2018: five on the Commission proposals for the future multiannual financial framework and one on the integration of migrants in the EU.
The Court's observations on the MFF focussed in particular on the proposed procedure for setting priorities for EU spending, the flexibility of the EU budget, the focus on the results and simplification of management, and on the principles of accountability and control.
We welcomed the Commission's efforts to modernise the EU budget for the period after 2020, but at the same time identified a number of potential threats, identified a number of weaknesses and proposed concrete improvements.
We stressed the need for effective parliamentary scrutiny, fair accountability and that the Court should in principle be designated as an external auditor for all bodies set up by the EU.
Rapid Case Reviews The only rapid analysis submitted in 2018 on cohesion concluded that VAT may be wrong and that it is not always the optimal use of EU funds.
We were of the opinion that the VAT refund to the public authorities should no longer be possible for expenditure co-financed by the EU for the period after 2020. 36
Conference on Financial Instruments In January 2018, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania, we organised a high-level joint conference on EU financial instruments in Vilnius.
The conference enabled experts from EU institutions and Lithuanian institutions, experts and other public and private stakeholders to exchange views and ideas.
Symposium on public funding of parliaments In March 2018, the Court organised a two-day international symposium on public funding of parliaments in Europe, the aim of which was to discuss their autonomy and to analyse the budgetary systems of the EU Member States.
Global Audit Leadership Forum Leadership In April 2018, we hosted the 5th meeting of Global Audit Leadership Forum, where the presidents and representatives of about twenty of the highest control bodies from around the world hosted.
In particular, the practice and reduction of performance control in the political context and the challenges and opportunities for the transmission of control reports in the digital age were discussed37.
38 The fifth meeting of the Leadership Audit Forum in April 2018, in which the European Court of Auditors met the presidents of the twenty highest audit bodies, the presidents of the European Day of Europe in May 2018 took part in European Day events in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg.
At information levels, our controllers were able to obtain information about our role and our work, as well as first-hand information on how controls are carried out.
We will continue to organise open days at the European Court of Auditors and participate in public events in order to contact the citizens.
Symposium on Good Public Administration In September 2018, we took part in the UN Symposium on Sustainable Development and Public Governance entitled "Good Public Administration and Benefits for Citizens "The Role of Parliamentary Control Bodies," organised by the Austrian Court of Auditors, the Secretariat of INTOSAI and the Austrian Public Prosecutor's Office.
The conference on the application of Union law In September 2018, we organised a conference on the application of Union law, during which we discussed the need for accountability, transparency and audit as part of our analysis of the implementation of Union law in practice.
This meeting took place at the Committee of the Regions building in Brussels.
Conference on e-commerce and related taxes In October 2018, we organised a conference on e-commerce and tax challenges in the digital age.
Speakers and panel participants discussed the risks associated with the current VAT model in e-commerce and proposed alternative tax models with the aim of using modern technologies such as Blockchain.
Conference of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) In November 2018, we took part in the eighth annual Conference of EIOPA in Frankfurt.
Over 400 people from the financial services, science, consumer organisations, media, international organisations, EU institutions and national authorities met during the conference.
The Court presented its audit work on supervision and financial stability in the European insurance sector in 2018 on the specific report on EIOPA in 2018. 39
COP24 In December 2018, we took part in the UN Climate Change Conference (COP24) in Katowice.
We have presented our research on air quality and its impact on climate change, and vice versa, and discussed the challenges of desertification and the destruction of land in the EU, in the context of the special reports published by us in 2018.
Janusz Wojciechowski, a member of the Court, presented in December 2018 in Katowice the Day of the Training Project in Katowice During the year the Court's staff participated in the Day of the School Project organized by the EU institutions.
17 of our employees visited secondary schools in seven Member States and told students about the EU, the role of our institution and the opportunities to study and work in EU institutions 40.
Relations with institutional addressees The impact of our work depends on the benefits of our institutional addressees, we work closely with the European Parliament, the EU Council and national parliaments, because the impact of our work is largely dependent on the benefits these institutions will reap from our audit results and recommendations.
The European Parliament The number of reports discussed in parliamentary committees shall be the record Members of the Court and the teams of auditors shall be regularly invited to submit their findings and recommendations to the Committee on Budgetary Control and to the other committees of the European Parliament and to the other bodies.
In 2018, we presented to Parliament 33 special reports, four opinions and six studies-based publications.
In total, we attended 74 meetings with the Committee on Budgetary Control (2017: 60) and 38 meetings with 13 other committees and working groups of Parliament and with political groups in Parliament.
The Joint Annual Meeting of the Court's representatives with the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control was held in February 2018.
In April 2018, President Lehne took part in the debate at the plenary session of the European Parliament on the 2016 discharge procedure.
In October 2018, he presented the Court's annual report on the annual accounts of the Committee on Budgetary Control of Parliament and the Assembly for the financial year 2017.
In addition, 44 presentations were organised for other competent preparatory bodies of the Council (2017: 27).
During the year, we presented 37 special reports, four opinions and three study-based publications to the Council (2017: 27).
In January 2018, President Lehne met with the Deputy Minister of Finance of Bulgaria at the Bulgarian Presidency meeting to discuss the relevant arrangements for the 2016 discharge procedure.
In March 2018, President Lehne and Mr Neven Mates, member of the Court responsible for our special report on macroeconomic imbalances, presented a report on EU finance ministers at the ECOFIN Council.
For this reason, for the first time, a special report was presented to the EU Finance Ministers of the ECOFIN Council.
President Lehne also presented our annual report 2017 at the November ECOFIN meeting during the Austrian Presidency of the Council.
Prior to the meeting, President Lehne met with the Austrian Finance Minister, the President of the ECOFIN Council, and the Minister of Public Finance of Romania, from that Member State at the beginning of 2019, to discuss our 2017 annual report, the discharge procedure, and to inform them of the further important actions of the Court.
First presentation of the Special Report before ECOFIN 42
The governments and parliaments of the Member States Meeting the President of the Court with representatives of high-level governments in five Member States During the year President Lehne visited many EU Member States in Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Romania and met with representatives of high-level governments.
These visits were often linked to the official state event or high-level conference.
In addition, the members of the Court presented an annual report for 2017 to the national parliaments or other national authorities of 14 Member States.
In addition, we have taken the opportunity to present some of our special reports to the parliamentary committees concerned to the national parliaments.
The delegations of national Parliaments visit the Court from time to time and we continue to explore how our cooperation with national Parliaments can be deepened.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors and Member of the Court of Justice, George Pufan, at a meeting with Klaus Iohannis, President of Romania, Bucharest 43 in October 2018.
Cooperation with the EU Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (ORKB) (ORKB) As part of the active cooperation with the EU CMR: a joint call to address shortcomings in the EU's banking supervision liability and control legislation Our cooperation with EU Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities takes place mainly within the EU-ORKB Contact Committee of EU-ORKB Presidents.
In October 2018, we actively participated in the annual meeting of the Contact Committee hosted by the ORKB of Croatia, headed by its own Presidency.
Discussions focused on contacts with EU citizens and on making public opinion available to the public.
The President of the Court, Klaus-Heiner Lehne, asked the President of the EU-ORKB at the annual meeting of the Contact Committee in Dubrovnik in Croatia in October 2018, together with the President of the top 28 Member States' audit bodies, asking the governments and national parliaments and the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to address a number of weaknesses in the system of accountability and control in relation to EU banking supervision.
In addition, the Court has participated and participated in the work of several bodies within the Contact Committee, including in the work of the VAT Working Group, within the Financial Policy Control Working Network, within the Europe 2020 review network and within the European Banking Union Task Force and in other public sector financial reporting and public procurement activities.
The Court also coordinated the preparation of the first audit compendium of the Contact Committee (youth unemployment and professional integration of young people), based on the audit reports of the 14 EU ORKB in 2013-2017.
Following the publication of the audit compendium, the Contact Committee presents a new product 44
INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2018 we continued to actively participate and participate in the activities of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI), in particular as Vice-President of the Technical Standards Committee (since December 2016) as well as as as as member of the Financial Audit and Accounting Committee, the Sub-Committee for the Verification of Compliance with Legal Standards and the Sub-Committee for Economic Audit.
We also actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI bodies, including the work of the Environmental Assessment Sub-Committee, the Environmental Assessment Working Party, the Working Group on Financial Modernisation and Regulatory Reform, and the Task Force on the Professionalisation of Auditors.
We have also actively participated in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (EUROSAI), the European Regional Group of INTOSAI, in particular in the work of the Working Group on Environmental Audit, the Working Group on IT Audit, the Audit and Ethics Task Force, as well as in several workshops and seminars.
When overseeing candidate countries and potential EU candidate countries, we also support the idea of overseeing candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo1, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey), and we support and support primarily a network comparable to the Contact Committee and support the activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2018, seven ORKB examiners participated in our internship program in the network.
In addition, we have actively participated in meetings and activities of this network, including activities related to this issue, such as auditing accounts and IT audits.
Our management of the College of Members of the Court The term of office of the Members of the Court is six years and is renewable.
The College shall be composed of one member of each Member State.
The Court shall not take part in the appointment and appointment of members.
In 2018, the Council appointed four new members of the Court: about Eva Lindström (Sweden), Tony Murphy (Ireland) and Hannu Takkula (Finland) on 1 March 2018 and Annemie Turtelboom (Belgium) on 1 May 2018.
In addition, the Council extended the terms of office of five of its own members: Pietro Russo (Italy), Baudilio (Spain), Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) and João Figueiredo (Portugal) until 29 February 2024 and Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria) until 31 December 2024.
18 meetings of the College of Members of the Court took place in 2018 (2017: 21).
46 College of Members of the Court of Justice meeting in Luxembourg on 28 February 2019
The president's role is the role of the first president (Primus inter Pares).
Its remit covers the institution's strategy, performance planning and management, communication and media work, legal issues and internal audit.
It also represents the Court in all its external relations.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected president.
Klaus-Hein Lehne, President of the Court, speaking at the annual meeting of the College of Members of the Court and the College of Commissioners in Luxembourg in February 2018 47
President and Members 48
The Audit Chamber and the Committees shall belong to one of the five Audit Chambers of the Court.
They shall be under the direction of Doyen or Doyenne, chosen from among the members.
Each member shall be responsible for his or her specific tasks and shall be assisted by his or her office.
The examination work shall be carried out by professional examiners working for the Directorates of the Examination Chambers.
In its positions in December 2018, five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Millionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Neven Mates and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Danièle Lamarque chaired the Quality Control Committee and Oscar Herics chaired our Ethics Committee and Jereb himself chaired our Audit Committee, while Rimantas Šadžius was a member of institutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members chaired by the Chair.
The European Court of Auditors consists of ten Directorates-General for all its activities, five of which consist of control chambers, one quality audit audit audit, the other with the Chair, and three of the Secretaries-General.
Director-General and Directors Peter WELLCH Director-General KAMMER 1 Gerhard ROSS Director KAMMER 2 Philippe FROIDURE Director KAMMER 3 Ioanna METAXOPULOU Director KAMMER 4 Mariusz POMIENSKI Director KAMMER 5 Martin WEBER Director Director Geoffrey SIMPSON Director of quality control in the field of audit Gailė DAGILIEN in the
Measuring Results Our new key performance indicators under the 2018-2020 strategy We have been using key performance indicators (KPIs) since 2008 to inform the management of the progress of our objectives, to support decision-making and to inform the addressees of our achievements.
Not only did we adopt our strategy for the years 2018-2020, but we also adapted our NIP for this period.
Therefore, 2018 is the first year in which we can report these indicators.
These five KPIs provide a comprehensive overview of how we organise our work in the field of dissemination, impact and perception. of the KPI 1. Implementation of the recommendations of the Court on KPI 2 Gender. about KPI 1 o KPI 3 our appearances in the European Parliament, Council and national Parliaments (exhibitions of the Court in the European Parliament, the Council and national Parliaments) about KPI 4 o o KPI o op r. o op r. o o rp rp rp y o rp rp y o rp y (and similar products) opin y o rs. o KPI 5 op. our visibility in the media (exhibit of the Court of Justice) 50
51 Number of special reports and similar products in 2018. We monitor the number and timeliness of reports published throughout the year.
That gives us a clue as to the accuracy of our planning.
Out of the 47 reports planned for 2018, 44 special reports were published: 35 special reports, six thematic documents, two Landscape analyses and a quick analysis.
In addition to the selected audits provided for in our work programme, we have issued ten opinions.
Special reports and similar products 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 44 30 2017 2018 Our speeches in the European Parliament, in the Council of the EU and in the national parliaments Most of our audit reports are presented to the relevant committee of the European Parliament and the Council of the EU.
In addition, the majority of the members of the Court shall submit their annual reports to the national Parliament of the Member State concerned.
In 2018, the Court spoke 133 times to the European Parliament (2017: 91), 65 times to the Council (2017: 47) and 50 times to the national parliaments (2017: 19).
Compared to 2017, this increase is significant.
The Court's statement in 2018: European Parliament, Council and national Parliaments 52 European Parliament 91 Council of the EU 47 133 65 50 National Parliaments 19 2017 2018 The number of online articles and posts in social media almost three times Since 2018 we have been in contact with media and non-institutional actors and we have been more active in social media.
About 76 Press releases were published in 23 EU languages (2017: 57) and on 20 press releases in Brussels (2017: 16), including press press press releases on the annual report, including correspondence, both in the sector and in the Member States.
We also received journalists from Brussels and Member States and offered a number of stakeholders from the sector, NGOs and filling centres for selected reports.
53 Visits by journalists from the Member States in Luxembourg in November 2018 We follow the media regarding our work and our institution, which may vary considerably depending on the subject and complexity of the report.
At the same time, we must remember that external factors can have a major impact on media interest in our publications.
For example, if the publication date coincides with an important event or policy development, the public interest may increase significantly.
The total number of reports in the media, including social media, has almost tripled: in 2017 there were around 15,500 articles and articles on social media, and in 2018 the number of reports in social media has increased to over 44 000.
Social media posts published by the Court's official accounts in connection with our publications have been published about 11 million times in 2018, almost 18 times more frequently than in 2017.
Special reports on media information are our example As far as media communication and information are concerned, special reports have become our example. Twelve of the Court's 15 most successful publications in 2018 are special reports.
This year there were more than 11 000 online articles on our special reports, which means that the number has more than doubled compared to 2017.
In 2013, the total number... was 1500 articles on the Internet... this year... was the year we started tracking the media.
The average average number of mediation reports in the special report was the same as in 2017.
This means that our presence in the media is growing not only thanks to more reports, but also through greater interest in our publications.
Media report on annual reports, special reports and overall 54 online articles Social media generally online articles Social media Total online Social media Total online articles Social media Total 6307 0 10 000 10 000 30 000 40 000 960 207 952 2 425 1 912 2 632 4 762 9 159 1 535 Special report on the European high-speed network Total 4400 articles and contributions on social media 11 682 20 841 7752 11198 13 535 2018 18 152 21 287 29 350 2017 Most special reports on media in 2018 concerned the European high-speed rail network, and the effectiveness of the management of the European Central Bank in the management of banking crises and the instrument for refugees in Turkey.
There are five social media accounts in the backyard: * This number indicates how many times our accounts have been displayed.
All year round, we have been weating our presence and involvement in social media, especially on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedInu, which are now an important element of our communication activity and allow us to connect directly with our citizens.
The number of our people, our subscribers, and the number of our impressions, which show how often our people were displayed, which were displayed.
55 Followers/Subscribers 2018 Increase compared to 2017 Impression rate * 7 674 31 % 3 419 137 10 080 23% 256 268 4 800 83% 9 590 234 869 27 % 117 800 1 134 149% C.E. 674 31 % 3 419 137 10 080 23 % 256 268 4 800 83 % 9 590 234 869 27 % 117 800 1 134 149% C.E.
Effects and perception of our work Our reports Sensitive and effective We assess the impact and perception of our work on the basis of the evaluations carried out by the addressees. Another criterion of evaluation is the follow-up to our recommendations on improving the EU's financial management.
At the beginning of 2018, we started to call on our stakeholders (the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the EU agencies, the permanent representations of Member States, the Member States' authorities, national supervisory authorities, non-governmental organisations, science, the media, etc.) to give an opinion on the validity and the expected impact of our reports.
The feedback shall cover selected special reports and analyses and the Court's annual reports and shall be collected by anonymous electronic surveys from all persons who have previously received a copy of those reports.
This study will also enable stakeholders to provide qualitative feedback on reports and provide general proposals on the Court's work.
A total of 87% of respondents confirmed that our reports were suitable for their work and 78% responded to them.
56 Report property 15 42 30 12 1 Report likely impact 0 % 10 % 20% 30 % 40 % 60 % 70 % 80% 90 % 100 % Very high impact Very small 7 30 41 18 4
Monitoring our recommendations Most of our recommendations have been implemented since 2018 instead of the European Commission's management declaration, we use as the basis for this indicator of action taken by our controllers.
In 2018, we analysed the recommendations... presented in our special reports published in 2014 and in our annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 74% of the recommendations made by us in the 2014 Annual Report and 94% of the recommendations made in our 2014 Special Reports have been fully, substantially or partially implemented.
Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year of issue 57 Implementation of the Court's recommendations in the 2014 annual report 10% 6% 10% 32 % 10 % 10 % Implementation of the Court's recommendations in 2014 6% 19 % 17% 58 % Full implementation Implementation Implementation of implementation of implementation in the long term Non implementation
Our staff employed 834 officials and temporary staff at the European Court of Auditors at the end of 2018.
The Court's establishment plan included 853 permanent and temporary posts, including 541 in control chambers, of which 112 in the members' office.
Areas of activity of our staff: Examination services, translation, administration and services of the President 58 Examination services 541 Translation Administration of the Service of the President 135 Total 853 129 48 In addition, at the end of the year, 76 contract staff and 15 seconded national experts were employed at the Court.
The recommendation of the staff of the Court staff has a broad academic and professional background.
Recruitment policy is based on the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promotes equal opportunities at all levels.
In 2018, the Court employed 79 staff: 15 officials, 32 temporary staff, 22 contract staff and 10 seconded national experts.
In addition, we have provided 60 graduate trainees for a period of between three and five months.
Age profile The age profile of staff working on 31 December 2018 shows that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
30 out of 64 directors and directors (47%) are 55 years of age or older.
Age profile 59 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0% per 1% 2% 4% - 1% 5% 5% 15% 25% 7% 12% 16% 18% 20% 23% 18% Note: Differences in the formation of the sum are related to rounding.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced participation of women and men among our employees; 45% of our auditors and boards are women.
The ratio of responsibility of women and men 60 34 % 66% 55 % 45% 62 % 38% Assistants and secretaries Auditors and administrators Managing 0 % 20 % 40% 60% Male 80% 100% Female We are still striving to achieve a balance between women and men at all levels of management.
For example, in recent years, we have managed to increase the participation of women in management positions in our examination chambers, which at the end of 2015, amounted to 7 percent, to almost 24% at the end of 2018.
Our policy of equal opportunities for the years 2018-2020 also addresses issues related to age and disability.
Managers broken down by nationality and sex 61
Support for control activities Vocational training Vocational training: in this way we will equip our employees and the Court for the future In line with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) we try to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training per year.
In 2018, we again exceeded this goal after 6.9 days of training per controller.
We have continued to expand the scope of the training that we offer to employees both inside and outside the scope, and we support controllers in obtaining different certificates.
We continued with a successful series of presentations organised by internal or external experts on the development of audit or other issues related to the work of our auditors.
We continued the "Performance Recognition Awards" programme, which allows employees who do not have managerial positions to take part in specialized external trainings.
Average number of training days per year 7.0 6.7 6.9 Objective ≥ 2 days 2016 2017 per examiner 2018 4.0 2016 2.3 3.1 2017 2018 Objective ≥ 5 days per examiner 62 days
Successful cooperation with educational institutions We have signed a partnership agreement with the European College (Brussels, Belgium), which provides for cooperation in several areas, including training, traineeships and reporting.
We have also concluded cooperation agreements with the European Institute of Public Administration and other organisations which will allow our employees to participate in training organised by these institutions.
We continued and developed our cooperation with the University of Lorraine: we again offered a postgraduate study programme: "Audit of public organizations and politicians" and a master's degree: "Management of public organizations." We also developed a new postgraduate program called "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit."
Finally, controllers from other ORKB organisations participated in our internal training, and some of them shared their experience in mirroring reports of the Court's Annual Day of Training, in which more than 450 people participated.
Interactive, public online courses We have provided our online courses to check the profitability of the public and have organised two interactive seminars, which have attended more than 150 participants from around the world.
Translation Directorate for Translation, Language Services and Publications of the Court translated and translated over 251 000 pages in 2018.
This increase also led to an increase in outsourcing.
In addition, all our translation teams apply harmonised working methods.
The translators were increasingly involved in the Court's audit activities by providing language assistance during audit visits and preparing most reports.
This has helped us to achieve greater synergies with our controllers.
The publication team is now a full member of the Directorate.
Verification of originals for translation and finally for publication, integrated with one optimized work process.
Information, work environment and innovation Our Directorate for Information, Labour and Innovation supports our employees in the efficient and efficient use of information technologies by supporting innovation and knowledge management.
Information Management We have launched a new initiative called tecaway, which enables our employees to access the network while travelling.
This enables them to access the Court's digital resources and services on all devices, anywhere and at any time.
The Court has created a new harmonised document management system and has introduced multi-functional printing, photocopying and scanning devices.
We expect these devices to have a beneficial impact on information security and paper consumption.
In addition, we have introduced a new model of cybersecurity management and are currently working on the implementation of the cybersecurity plan.
All IT projects and IT solutions took due account of the continuity of the operation, thus ensuring the full availability of critical systems.
Innovation We have also established ECAlab, an interdisciplinary innovation lab, which, through the use of data and the use of technology, focuses on digitisation of the scope of control.
ECAlab tests the use of technologies such as artificial intelligence, the use of natural language, intelligence as well as "natural language processing" and "text processing" in actual examination tasks.
This support has already been used in several tasks and publications.
In addition, we have carried out a pilot project on the use of Blockchain technology for a notarial notarial presentation of verification and publication documents.
The ECA register was thus chosen by the European Blockchain Partnership (European Blockchain Infrastructure) established by the European Blockchain Partnership (ECA registry) by the EU Member States and the Commission in the European Blockchain Infrastructure (EBlockchain) (EB) in order to provide services to be developed since 2019.
Knowledge Management In July 2018, our first summer course in the field of public financial control, organized jointly with the University of Pisa and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
45 people from ORKB, EU institutions and universities took part in the summer course, which focused on the analysis of the data on the exams.
We also organised a conference on blockchain, during which we examined the opportunities offered by this technology, and the practical application of this technology to control EU spending.
This conference was addressed mainly to participants from other EU institutions.
The Farm Building currently has three buildings ("K1, "K2" and "K3"), which form one integrated technical unit.
Moreover, the Court rents office space to a data recovery centre in Luxembourg.
Other missiles are used for offices up to 241 employees and include conference rooms, conference room with translation booths, conference room, café and kitchen base.
In 2019 a detailed examination of this project will be carried out, which should start at the end of this year.
As the European Parliament and the Council approved in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds in the framework of the K3 construction project completed a few years ago in order to finance this modernisation.
K3 K3 building was opened in 2012.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) was assessed as "very good" (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, BREEAM).
In September 2018, a new security control centre and an external accreditation and access control centre were launched for workers and guests.
EuRH's main building "K1' and the new security control centre at Rue Alcide De Gasperi, Luxembourg Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, it is our duty to respect the principle of good environmental management in all activities.
We are therefore constantly trying to reduce the Court's environmental impact.
Currently, we successfully run an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully comply with the certification requirements set out in ISO 14001:2015.
As part of our goal of systematically reducing CO2 emissions, we are regularly investigating greenhouse gas emissions caused by our actions.
The total greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 amounted to 10 451 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), representing a 3% reduction compared to 2016.
2018 was the fourth year in a row for which the Court examined its CO2 footprint.
67 Court audit Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union and its budget falls within the scope of administrative expenditure.
In 2018, the Court's budget was around EUR 146 million.
This represents less than 0,1% of the total EU expenditure or around 1.5% of the total EU administrative expenditure.
The share in the 2018 budget was 96%.
Implementation of the budget 2018 68 budget year 2018 Final appropriations - appropriations in % of payments Title 1: Members and staff of institutions (thousand euro) 10 w - weinen Members of institutions 12 265 11 - 265 10 - 2 w 2 w 2 w 2 w 2 w 2 w 2 w 2 w 2 w 3 10 10 w 2 w 3 3 w 5 5 5 w 2 w 2 w 2 w 3 i 3 w 2 w 2 w 2 i 2 w 2 w 2 2 2 2 2 total 1 130 084 125 635 97 w 125 w 124 w 2 w 2 w Title 2: buildings, equipment and various operating expenditure 20 in building 2 in 956 2 956 99 in 10 8 22 w 2 in Title 21 in Title 8 in 6 7 7 7 7 in 99 in % 4 714 212 + 4 in total 2 in total 1 in 066 94 in % 749 23 in Title 2 + 6 7 in total 6 in Title 2 in 3 5 5 and 22 in 2 in total 8 8 in Title 5 in total 2 in total 2 in total 2 in total 2 in 7 in Title 2 in 1 7 of Title 2 in 1 7 in 2 in 1 7 in 2 in 2 in 1 2 in 2 2 of 2 in 2 of 2 in 2 2 of 2 of 2 of 2
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure related to external staff in the "Marine Economy and Fisheries' policy area for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 in the "Marine Economy and Fisheries' policy area and expenditure related to "Marine Economy and Fisheries' policy actions for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 in the policy area "Marine Economy and Fisheries' and expenditure related to actions in the "Marine Economy and Fisheries' policy area for the period from 1 December 2015 to 31 December 2015 and for the period from 31 December 2015 to 31 January 2015 and from 31 December 2015 to 31 January 2015.
(vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi)) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi
Internal audit and external audit Internal audit body shall advise the Court on issues relating to risk management.
It provides an independent and objective guarantee and provides advice to increase and improve the added value of the Court's activities.
In addition, they shall report to the Internal Audit Committee, consisting of three members of the Court and an external expert.
The Committee shall regularly monitor progress in the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the internal audit agency and shall ensure its independence.
In 2018, she carried out a review of the Court's cyber security systems and works related to its external protection.
The service also examined the implementation by the Court of the risk management policy and the annual declarations by the authorising officer by delegation.
In addition, it monitored the implementation of previous recommendations to ensure that the agreed action plans became a reality.
In 2018, the inspections carried out by the services did not reveal any shortcomings which, due to their nature or scope, could undermine the overall credibility of the internal control systems which have been introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations.
Every year, we report to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
External audit Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied to the entities he has carried out.
The annual report of the Court for the financial year 2017 was published on 17 May 2018. 70
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of 25 October 2014 supplementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1) and Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).'
With regard to the use of the Court's resources and audit procedures: "In the course of our work described in this report, we have not reached the situation from which we could conclude that in all material respects and taking into account the evaluation criteria, the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for specific purposes and that the audit procedures in place do not ensure that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
discharge, like the other EU institutions, the Court is also required to grant discharge.
In April 2018, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2016.
As every year, we have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our responsibility for control and management, we have implemented the appropriate measures, and we have carefully pointed out the follow-up to the European Parliament.
On 26 March 2019 the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge for the financial year 2017.
This means that our annual accounts were finally approved for 2017.
The peer reviews The peer reviews assessed the independent and transparent assessments of the competences of the specific CB and carried out by the other CBs.
Each of the countries participating in the peer review shall continue to respect the independence of the other countries participating in the peer review.
In 2018, we asked O.R.K.B. Estonia (K.B.), Denmark, the Netherlands and the United States of America to assess whether the Court was on track to achieve the strategic objectives in the mid-term of 2018-2020 and whether the action taken so far to implement the strategy would have the desired effect.
The peer review report is expected to be published at the beginning of 2019.
At the same time, together with the ORB of Poland and the UK, we started preparations for mutual verification of the ORB of Lithuania.
The main objective of this specialist evaluation will be to assess whether the control approach of the ORKB of Lithuania complies with international standards.
In addition, during the year, we commissioned an external and independent evaluation of the Court's ethical framework.
This peer review is carried out by the Court of Auditors of Croatia and Poland.
The review report is expected to be made available in 2019 72
The statement by the authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate and confirm with sufficient assurance that the appropriations made available for the actions described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, that the control procedures put in place provide sufficient assurance of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and of the adequate management of the allegations of fraud or fraud, the costs and benefits of the control are proportionate.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 March 2019.
The annex took action in 2018 in the field of.... in the field of.... in the field of.... in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of....in the field of... in the field of... in 2018 in the field of... in the field of... in the field of...... in the field of... in the field of....in 2018 in the field of... in the field of....in the field of... in the field of... in the field of... in the field of... in the field of...... in the field of... in the field of.... in the field of...... in the field of... in the field of... in the field of... in the field of... in the field of...... in the field of... in the field of... in the field of...
Special Report No 15/2018: The Instrument for Refugees in Turkey: Although the aid is useful, the best use of resources can only be achieved by improving 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Special Report No 28/2018: Most simplification actions under Horizon 2020 have facilitated the lives of the beneficiaries, but further improvements can be made to the Special Report No 29/2018: the EIEI has made a significant contribution to the supervision and stability of the insurance sector, but there are still many challenges to the Special Report No 30/2018: the rights of passengers in the EU under Horizon 2020 are complete and their enforcement is still difficult for the beneficiaries, but the Special Report No 31/2018 still remains difficult for the EU: Animal Protection in the EU: to complete the gap between the ambitious objectives and the practical implementation of the Special Report No 32/2018: the flexible, but under-targeted instrument referred to in the Special Report No 33/2018: the fight against deserts in the EU: the ever-increasing threat to the Special Report No 31/2018; the Special Report on the subject: the increased action of the EU Office in the Special Report No 41 on the 2015 Report, the 2015; some best management procedures for 2015; and many gaps in the 2015 on the implementation of the 2015; the 2015; on the implementation of the 2015; on the 2015; the implementation of the 2015; their report on the implementation for the Special Report on the 2015; on the 2015; on the 2015; on the Special Report No 34/2018 on the subject. on the subject; on the subject of the subject: the 2015; on the implementation of the subject; and the subject of the subject of the subject of the subject of the subject of the subject of the implementation of the implementation of the.
Legal Notice © European Union, 2019.
The replacement shall be permitted with the indication of the source.
Copyright authors must be allowed to use or play the following images: S. 30, © Croix-Rouge française (French Red Cross).
© © 20 © EU © © 20 © EU © © 2015 © 20 EU / AFP / Ronny Hartmann © EU, 2016 / Yasin Akgul © UE, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro © UE, 2017 / Frank Molter © EU, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro © EU, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro S. 22, © EU, 2008 / European Parliament, 2008 / European Parliament, © © © UE, © © © © © © © © 2015 / © © © © 2015 © © © © © © © 2015 © © © © 2015 © © © © © © © 2015
EU ANIMALS There are hundreds of Europe Direct information offices in the European Union.
Contact Europe Direct via free phone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some phone operators charge charges), via standard telephone number: +32 22999696 or via e-mail: http://europa.eu/contact INFORMATION About EU On the Internet There is information about the European Union in all official languages: http://europa.eu Publications of the European Union In EU Bookshop you can download or order EU publications in part free of charge: http://publications.europa.eu/eubookshop.
If you wish a few copies of the free publication, contact Europe Direct or the information office nearby (see http://europa.eu/contact).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation in every official language since 1951, can be found in EUR-Lex at: http://eur-lex.europa.eu Open EU data Opened at EU website: http://data.europa.eu/euodp/
ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 QJ-AA-19-001-DE-C
DE Our activities in 2019 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2020 Print ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-4585-2 HTML ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN2315-3903 doi:10.2865/6146 doi:10.2865/1055263527 QJ-AA-20-001-DE-C QJ-AA-20-001-DE-N QJ-AA-20-001-DE-Q
Our actions in 2019 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors
2 College of Members of the European Court of Auditors in January 2020
Content Preface of the President 6 2019 at a glance 7 Our activities 9 Strategy 9 Monitoring the efficiency and regularity of EU activities 10 Work Programme 11 Audit work on the spot 12 Audit reports, analyses and opinions 15 Cross-cutting topics 32 Institutional relations 34 Cooperation with the highest audit bodies (ORKB) 39 Our management 43 Members 43 Audit committees and committees 45 Measurement of achievements 47 Our staff 54 Staff allocations 54 At work 54 Age profile 55 Equal opportunities 55 3
4 Support for control activities 57 Vocational training 57 Translation 59 Information technologies, working environment and innovation 59 Building 61 Further increase our security measures 63 Environmental management 64 Court's responsibility 65 Financial information 65 Internal and external audit 67 Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation 70
European Court of Auditors 5 Who are we about the European Union's external auditor; Who are we about the European Union's external auditor, created in 1975 by the Treaty of Brussels; the start of office in October 1977; the EU's full-value institution since the Maastricht Treaty of 1993; the head office in Luxembourg; the member from each EU Member State appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament; about 900 workers from all EU countries.
Our role in ensuring that the EU ensures proper financial management, that its financial rules are properly applied, that it achieves its objectives through its policies and programmes, and that it achieves the best use of resources. o We warn against the risks, we ensure the security of control, we point to weaknesses and successes, and we provide guidance to policy makers and EU legislators. o We present our comments and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council, national governments and national parliaments, as well as to the general public.
2019 meant a number of changes for the Union: the European Parliament elections and the new European Commission joined the European Union.
The strategic priorities have been recast and important package measures have been launched, such as the European Green Agreement and the European Digital Future (early 2020).
At the end of the year it also appeared that we will now be the Union of the 27 Member States.
At the same time, the EU is at an important financial crossing.
We are very close to the conclusion of the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework, the results of which will be crucial to the financial capacity of the Union over the next seven years.
All EU institutions must now build on their efforts to further improve EU financial management and ensure that the EU delivers results.
As an external auditor, we ensure an impartial evaluation of the Union's policies and programmes and the quality of the EU's financial management within and outside the Union.
We are checking whether EU expenditure is in line with the rules to ensure that EU policies and programmes ensure optimum use of resources.
This activity report provides a review of our work in 2019 in which we have published a wide range of recent special reports, analyses and opinions.
For more information about our employees, management and finance, please visit our website.
We hope that this information will be useful.
We are publishing this year's activity report at a time when public health in the EU and its Member States is unprecedented due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our institution responded quickly to this situation in accordance with the Luxembourg Government's health and safety instructions.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their good work and their willingness to adapt flexibly to the current situation.
We must now work together to continue to play our role as an external EU controller in these difficult times.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President 6
7 2019 at a glance
8 Our actions Strategy To continue to prepare the development of public financial control, we are based on multi-annual strategies to make long-term control choices and to promote organisational change initiatives to make continuous improvements.
At the end of 2019 we completed the second year of the current strategy for the years 2018-2020.
During this three-year period, we have set the following strategic objectives: increasing the added value of the statement of assurance; increasing the focus on the effectiveness of EU action; ensuring a clear position for the addressees.
In order to implement our strategy in practice, we have agreed on an action plan covering these objectives.
Over the last two years, we have made significant progress in achieving our strategic objectives.
A number of initiatives and projects have been launched for all planned areas, sometimes going beyond the objectives of the Action Plan, in particular the pilot phase of the test-based audit approach, with regard to the drafting of the Statement of Assurance, which has significantly contributed to the provision of useful information; the significant increase in the number of performance controls and analytical products and a number of different issues, which cover both EU spending and regulatory action; better contacts with the European Parliament and the visibility of traditional and social media.
During the year, a group of the four highest audit bodies (Estonia, the Netherlands, Denmark and the United States) peer reviewed our strategy.
The report of our colleagues was published in March 2020, just in time, in order to give a valuable impetus to our next strategy, starting in 2021.
Good progress in implementing our strategy 9
Monitoring the efficiency and regularity of EU activities Performance audits, audits and conformity audits Our performance audits take into account the efficiency, cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EU policies and programmes.
It focuses on issues that are relevant to the EU, such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, economic growth and social inclusion, the challenges of migration and global development, the internal market and the banking union, as well as ensuring the accountability and cost-effectiveness of the European Union.
These controls aim at helping the EU achieve its political objectives.
Our accounting and compliance audits lead to the statement of assurance of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
We may also carry out selected conformity audits to examine or assess the Union's budgetary and financial management, whether the management and control systems established for the collection and use of EU funds comply with EU and national legislation in force.
Our research is in line with international standards for public sector audit. 10
Work programme Strategic perspective In 2019 we continued to introduce a strategic perspective in our audit work in order to better address the main future challenges facing the EU through a forward-looking approach.
To this end, we have set up an advisory committee on strategies and perspectives.
One of the current tasks of this Committee, composed of five members, is to monitor the development of the post-2020 strategy.
The audit priorities for future EU issues Our work programme was published in October 2019 in which we will present our audit priorities for the coming years and 41 reports and analyses which will be published for 2020.
Our audits for 2020 and beyond will continue to provide independent reports to citizens and policy makers on issues relevant to the future of the EU.
We draw up a work programme for our exams in an independent way, but not in complete isolation from our surroundings.
It is therefore very important for us to cooperate with our institutional stakeholders, especially the European Parliament.
As usual, at the beginning of 2019 we asked all parliamentary committees to propose possible monitoring topics. 11
Exam work in the area The most important part of our examination work is done in our rooms in Luxembourg.
Our auditors also carry out a number of audit visits to the European Commission in the field of information on the field of education and education in the field of education and education, and in the field of education, education and training, and education and training in the field of education, training and training, education, education and training, training and training in the field of education and training, education and training in the field of education and training in the field of education and training in the field of education, education and the field of education, training, education and training, and the field of education, education and training in the arts and arts of the arts and arts.
In addition, we carry out on-the-spot checks within and outside the EU, among the beneficiaries of EU funds.
These audits will enable us to understand the audit trail and to obtain direct proof of control from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes and in the collection or payment of EU funds, as well as from the beneficiaries of such funds.
In line with the objectives set out in the EU Financial Regulation, within 13 months, we are seeking to complete selected controls 12.
3 605 days of field audit work in the EU and beyond Our audit teams typically consist of two to three auditors and the duration of the audit visit may be several days and several weeks.
In the EU, our on-the-spot checks are generally coordinated with the highest audit authorities of the Member States concerned.
13 The frequency and intensity of our audit work in the individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the type of audit we have carried out.
In 2019 our auditors spent 3 605 days (2018: 3 671 days) on on-the-spot checks in the Member States and outside the EU.
In addition, our auditors spent 2504 days (2018: 2 723 days) in the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as in decentralised agencies and agencies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations and the OECD, as well as audit firms.
As part of our interaction with our research units, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies, such as secure data and documents exchange. 14
Audit reports, analyses and opinions Our audit reports, analyses and opinions are an important link in the EU's responsibility chain.
They shall assist the European Parliament and the Council in monitoring and monitoring the implementation of the EU policy objectives and in ensuring the accountability of the bodies responsible for EU financial management in particular in the framework of the annual discharge procedure.
Special reports and analysis products In line with our 2018-2020 strategy in recent years, we have focused more on assessing the results of EU action.
In 2019 we issued 36 special reports and studies on the many challenges facing the EU in the various areas of EU spending, such as food security, renewable energy, e-commerce, border control, budget management and the ethical framework of the selected EU institutions, to mention only a few. 15
16 In special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved effectively and economically, and whether EU action has brought added value, i.e. whether more has been achieved than only through action at national level.
In addition, we make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, prevention of waste or better achievement of the policy objectives.
Our analyses often aim to provide analytical descriptions and analyses on the basis of previous studies and other publicly available information.
They can also help us to present our analysis of areas or issues that have not yet been analysed, or to present facts on specific issues or problems.
Unlike controls, they do not deal with either assessment or they do not guarantee credibility.
17 Sustainable use of natural resources Analysis 01/2019: EU response to the diesel scandal In 2015 diesel engines differed between the emission values of the test bench and the road exhaust emission values.
Studies have shown that so-called "cut-off devices" have been used that have resulted in lower emissions than in normal driving conditions during official tests.
The type-approval authorities of certain Member States responded to the pollution scandal by re-testing diesel vehicles.
Studies have shown that exhaust emissions from road transport, for almost all light vehicles used for diesel engines in emission classes Euro 5 and Euro 6, have in some cases significantly exceeded the NOx limit values, and in some cases more than 10-fold.
We have considered the measures taken by both the EU and the Member States in response to the diesel scandal.
We have also introduced changes in the exhaust emission measurement system after September 2015.
We have noted that many legal changes have been accelerated in the EU type-approval and vehicle emission testing system.
The Commission shall be empowered to check the work of the national type-approval authorities, may also carry out vehicle tests, withdraw or suspend type-approval.
In addition, the third parties concerned may now carry out emission tests.
The Commission has also opened infringement proceedings against certain Member States.
We have also noted that in several Member States there has been a greater willingness to reduce car traffic in order to improve air quality, and in several European cities low-carbon zones have been set up in which traffic is limited or prohibited.
We have presented the results of our work in the form of an analysis, because in the near future, legislative changes will have no tangible impact.
Our analysis doesn't make recommendations.
18 Investment for Cohesion, Growth and Integration Special Report No 08/2019: Wind and solar energy for electricity generation: in order to achieve the EU's objectives, considerable efforts are needed to generate electricity from non-renewable energy sources such as fossil fuels, non-renewable waste and nuclear fuels in conventional reactors, or renewable energy sources such as water, wind and solar energy, biomass, etc.
Renewable energy sources also serve the production of heat and cooling energy and the production of fuels for the transport sector.
Currently, 79% of all greenhouse gas emissions in the EU come from the use of fossil fuels for energy production.
Increasing the share of renewable energy in electricity generation will contribute to the EU's greenhouse gas reduction target.
Member States shall determine how they make best use of their energy resources and how they organise their energy supplies.
The EU can support Member States' actions through additional resources for investment in renewable energy projects.
We have assessed the progress made by the EU and the Member States in meeting the targets for the share of renewable energy sources in order to achieve the overall EU target of 20% by 2020 and 32% by 2030.
In Germany, Greece, Spain and Poland, we checked whether the support for wind and photovoltaic electricity production was effective.
We have noted that since 2005 significant progress has been made in the share of renewable energy sources in the energy mix, but this trend has slowed since 2014.
The share of renewable energy in electricity production in the EU increased from around 15% (in 2015) to around 31% (in 2017) and doubled.
Wind and solar energy are the technologies that have contributed the most to this growth.
However, achieving the targets will be a major challenge for around half of the Member States.
We recommended that the Commission encourage the Member States to continue to develop through auctions in order to grant additional capacity for renewable energy, by promoting greater involvement of citizens, by simplifying administrative procedures and by removing shortcomings in the networks.
We also recommended that the Commission review the legal requirements for the Member States in order to improve the timeliness of statistical data.
19 External policy, security and justice Special Report No 24/2019: Asylum, relocation and repatriation of migrants: time for action to eliminate disparities between objectives and results In 2015, the influx of migrants into the European Union has been unprecedented, followed by an increase in the number of asylum applications.
In recent years, the number of immigrants has returned to pre-crisis levels.
We interviewed European Commission staff, the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (hereinafter Frontex).
Monitoring visits were carried out with national authorities, international organisations and non-governmental organisations implementing EU-funded projects, and 20 EU support actions were carried out in Greece and Italy.
Both Member States are particularly affected by these migration flows.
We have assessed whether the objectives of EU-funded support have been achieved and whether asylum and return procedures have been achieved effectively and quickly.
We also checked whether the objectives and objectives for temporary and exceptional relocation systems were achieved.
We learned that the rates for registration and fingerprinting significantly improved in hotspot sites.
However, many migrants continue to move to other EU Member States and apply for asylum without storing fingerprints in the Eurodac database.
In addition, asylum procedures continue for a long time and a narrow throat in both Member States.
A large number of applicants were transferred to Italy (80% in Greece and 89% in Italy).
However, since February 2018, the Commission has not monitored the relocation process in the host countries.
As in other EU countries, return rates from Greece and Italy are low.
We recommended that the next Commission take appropriate action to improve the management of emergency aid.
In addition, the Commission should take advantage of the experience gained so far in developing future voluntary relocation mechanisms.
Finally, EASO's support for asylum procedures should be improved and Frontex's support for return operations should be adapted.
20 Market regulation and competitive economy Special Report No 10/2019: EU-wide stress tests for banks: the need for as much information on banks as possible, but greater coordination and concentration of risk The aim of the EU-wide stress test for banks is to assess the potential effects which could be stress on the financial situation and profitability of large European banks.
The European Banking Authority (EBA) in cooperation with the European Systemic Risk Board.
Stress tests have been carried out in the EU since 2011, in the case of all of them according to the bottom-up approach, with the banks providing the results of the shock scenario based on the methodology approved by EBA.
We assessed the implementation of the EU-wide stress test of banks within the framework of the mandate granted to EBA.
We noted that at the beginning of the procedure EBA did not specify the level of risk or the level of risk that it considered relevant for the stress test procedure.
The ESRB, which has developed a stress scenario, has, in turn, received a significant contribution from the ECB, the national central banks and the public authorities.
As a result, EBA had no control over the relevant stages of the procedure.
In the United States, the supervisory authorities are based on a top-down approach, giving them much more control over the performance of the banks.
On the other hand, EBA's role in the EU is limited to the launch of stress tests, the provision of methodology and coordination of stress tests to a broad extent.
The EBA stress test assessed the vulnerability of the system and banks to the economic downturn and not to the severe financial shocks affecting the system.
Although EBA sought wide coverage, some risk-bearing banks were excluded from the stress test.
The bottom-up approach of EBA has led to a limited credibility and comparability of the results of the banks.
We recommended that EBA strengthen control of the stress test and develop a top-down approach to complement the current bottom-up approach.
Furthermore, in order to achieve the objective of assessing resilience to adverse market developments, future stress tests should take due account of the risks posed by the EU financial system, provide a minimum level of stress and provide clear explanations of the resilience of banks.
In addition, the choice of banks for the stress test should be made not only on the basis of size but also on the basis of risk.
21 The Union's financing and management of Special Report No 14/2019: "Your opinion counts!"
The Commission's public consultation involves citizens, but there is a lack of transparency Within the framework of "better regulation', it is important to ensure that policy decisions are conducted in an open and transparent way, are based on the best facts available and are conducted by citizens and other stakeholders, such as civil society organisations and representative organisations in which civil society organisations are fully involved.
The Commission shall consult citizens and representative organisations in all areas of Union activity.
The Better Regulation Guidelines define consultation with stakeholders and define them as "stakeholders."
Consultation of interested parties of notifications and views of citizens and other interested parties shall be convened when the Commission prepares a policy initiative or an evaluation of ongoing interventions, in particular in the course of a public consultation.
On average, the Commission conducts more than 100 public consultations per year.
We assessed whether the Commission's public consultation effectively contributed to reaching out to the citizens and stakeholders and to making use of their contributions.
We have examined how the Commission has prepared and carried out the selection of the public consultation and how it has provided information on the consultation activities and how it has benefited from the consultation.
We reviewed the sample of 26 public consultations carried out by the Commission between 2016 and 2018 by the five Directorates-General and carried out an opinion study to determine to what extent the public consultation participants were actually satisfied.
We have noted that the Commission's public consultation framework has a high standard.
In addition, the Commission's attempt to consult the public has generally shown a positive balance and a generally satisfactory opinion of the participants.
The shortcomings were detected during information and information activities, for example, the full range of communication channels was not always used, there were no clear criteria to justify why the questionnaire was not available in all the official languages of the EU and some questionnaires were long and complex.
We recommended that public consultations be promoted to a greater extent and to a greater extent in order to increase visibility and increase the number of participants in the consultations.
We also encouraged the Commission to report better on the follow-up to the public consultation.
Finally, there is potential for greater participation of citizens in initiating legislative proposals in the framework of the European Citizens' Initiative.
Audit forecasts Audit forecasts provide information on current audit tasks (in the field of cost-effectiveness audit).
They shall be based on preparatory work carried out prior to the start of the checks and shall serve as a source of information for those interested in specific policy areas and/or programmes which are subject to ongoing checks.
In 2019 we published 18 exam forecasts (2018: 12).
Annual reports and special annual reports The annual reports mainly contain the results of our statement of assurance of the budget of the European Union and the European Development Fund (EDF).
The special annual reports include the results of our annual audit of the accounts of the agencies, decentralised agencies, EU Joint Undertakings and European Schools.
In addition, we publish a report on conditional obligations arising from the implementation of the Single Committee on Restructuring and Structured Restructuring and Structured Restructuring 22.
Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2018 Each year we analyse EU revenue and expenditure to verify that the annual accounts are reliable and that the revenue and expenditure transactions underlying them comply with the relevant EU and Member State rules.
In addition, we are presenting specific evaluations on all important areas of the EU budget of the era on the basis of the seasons of the multiannual financial framework (sub-) for the period 2014-2020.
We also analyse the causes and locations of errors, make recommendations for improvement, and assess whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been implemented.
Finally, we provide information on budgetary and financial management and information on results.
This extensive work is the basis of our statement of assurance, which we must present to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with our mandates in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
EU general budget: opinion on the overall audit of the reliability of accounts and revenue; limited opinion on the audit of expenditure In 2018, EU expenditure amounted to EUR 156.7 billion, corresponding to 2.2% of the total expenditure of the EU Member State and 1% of the Union's gross national income.
Our auditors analysed a sample of 728 payments to beneficiaries in all spending areas in the EU budget on the basis of a population of around EUR 120 billion in the surveyed population.
This means that we have analysed various cases where EU funds have been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support non-EU beneficiaries.
For the financial year 2018, we issued an unreserved opinion on the reliability of the EU accounts and revenues.
In addition, in the third year in a row, we were able to present a limited opinion on EU expenditure 23.
About half of the expenditure audited shows no significant error rate, as in previous years, when we discovered that the errors in EU expenditure were not exhaustive and that the payments were legal and correct, except in the case of high-risk expenditure (mainly on the basis of reimbursement rules).
Overall, the Commission and the Member States maintained the error rate of 2.6% in relation to the progress in relation to the previous two years (financial year 2017: 2,4%; financial year 2016: 3,1%).
We find this an encouraging sign.
Venezuelan errors What does that mean? What does that mean?
A mistake or illegal payment is the amount of money that could not be paid out of the EU budget because it was not used in accordance with EU or national rules and therefore does not comply with the objectives set by the Council and Parliament by the relevant EU acts or does not conflict with the specific national rules in the Member States.
We evaluate the error rate using statistical methods and rely on measurable (i.e. measurable methods) errors measured on the basis of sample controls of transactions in the whole of the audited expenditure population.
In the financial year 2018, the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion was the most vulnerable to errors, the MFF errors (part) and economic, social and territorial cohesion, followed by "natural resources" and "competitiveness for growth and jobs." 25.
Annual report on the EDF: the opinion on the reliability of accounts and revenue: the opinion on full expenditure; the opinion on limited expenditure 26 of the European Development Fund (EDF) are the main instruments of EU development cooperation assistance.
The EDF aims to overcome poverty and promote sustainable development and the integration of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the overseas countries and territories into the world economy.
The EFF shall be financed by the Member States of the Union and managed by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB) outside the EU budget.
As in previous years, for the financial year 2018, we have issued a full opinion on the reliability of EDF accounts and revenue and on a limited opinion on EDF expenditure.
Special annual reports on EU agencies and joint enterprises EU agencies are separate entities with legal personality, set up to perform specific technical and scientific tasks and administrative tasks, thus contributing to the formulation and implementation of policies of the EU institutions.
There are 43 agencies in total.
Joint enterprises are EU public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is a member of the Public Sector Joint Undertaking and represents the EU.
In total, there are eight joint ventures.
Note: The United Kingdom left the European Union on 31 January 2020.
For the financial year 2018 for all agencies (except the SRB) for all agencies for a total amount of EUR 4.2 billion, 20% more than in 2017 (3,5 billion) for a total amount of 2,9% of the EU budget for 2018 (2017: 2,7%).
Overall, our audit of the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2018 confirmed the positive results presented in previous years.
We have issued full opinions on the reliability of the accounts, revenues and payments underlying the Agency's accounts, with the exception of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), which has issued a limited opinion on payments.
We also gave all joint enterprises a full opinion on the reliability of the accounts, revenues and expenditure.
Launching the discharge procedure by Parliament Publication of our annual reports is at the beginning of the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament, on the recommendation of the Council, decides whether the Commission and other bodies have purchased a satisfactory EU budget.
In October 2019 we presented our annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the EDF of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, and on the plenary session of the European Parliament, the Council (ECOFIN) and the national parliaments and bodies of the 21 Member States.
28 Other annual reports: conditional commitments and European schools We are obliged to report annually on all conditional liabilities created by the Single Resolution Committee, the Council and the Commission in the performance of their resolution tasks.
In our 2018 report, we came to the conclusion that the Committee has improved the presentation of its financial statements, but that it is necessary to better report contingent obligations at national level.
We are also publishing an annual report on the annual accounts of European schools.
Our review of the 2018 annual accounts showed a significant error rate for one of the 13 European schools.
On the way to the e-test, Digitalisation aims to exploit the potential of technology to provide more and better information in the accountability process.
Digital changes are also important for our examination work and our organization.
In the coming years, we have set up a Steering Committee on Digitisation, comprising five members.
As the first important audit initiative, we launched a pilot test in 2019 to automate the audit of executive agencies' financial statements.
As part of this pilot test, we will use both traditional and digital instruments 29.
Opinions Opinions: contributing to better regulation One way to strengthen the Commission's approach to better lawmaking is to publish an opinion on the Commission's proposals for new or revised legislation.
In the case of legislative proposals having a significant financial impact, the Court's opinions are required under EU law.
In addition, other institutions may ask us to give an opinion on specific issues.
Our opinions will be presented to the European Parliament and the Council.
In 2019 we published three opinions: on the proposal for a European Union Office for Intellectual Property, on the proposal for a Financial Regulation of the Single Committee for Restructuring and Structured Restructuring and Organized Intellectual Property and on the proposal for a Financial Regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office.
Our comments on the new Multiannual Financial Framework at the beginning of 2019 have also been published by the European Court of Auditors on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2021-2027.
This summary focuses on the proposed procedure for setting EU spending priorities, flexibility of the EU budget, focus on results and simplification of governance, and on accountability and audit principles.
This analysis was mainly based on several opinions on the Commission's proposals that we issued in 2018, but also on the latest thematic documents and other reports on EU finances.
During the year, we achieved a relatively balanced number of publications, reaching a climax in October, when we had our annual reports.
31 32 Combating fraud at the expense of the EU's financial interests The Administrative Agreement signed with OLAF The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) is the main leader in the fight against fraud against the EU's financial interests.
We have adopted detailed guidelines for managing the risk of fraud for our auditors.
We report to OLAF any suspicion of fraud or any other illegal activity to the detriment of the financial interests of the European Union which arise during our control work or which are reported to us.
These cases are then dealt with by OLAF, which takes a decision on a possible investigation and, if necessary, cooperates with the authorities of the Member States.
In 2019 we also signed an administrative agreement setting out the operational rules for our cooperation with OLAF, including the coordination of training, workshops and staff exchanges.
10 suspected fraud cases were addressed to OLAF We are the external auditors of the EU.
Our attempts are not specifically designed to detect fraud.
However, our auditors regularly identify a number of cases where they suspect fraud.
In 2019 we submitted 10 alleged frauds to OLAF (2018: nine cases) from which we paid attention to these cases during our inspections, as well as to two cases which were the result of third party observations.
Further information on the nature of suspected fraud and on its recovery, as recommended by OLAF, can be found in our annual report on the EU general budget.
In 2019 we also published two specific reports on the fight against fraud in EU expenditure: Special Report No 01/2019 on fight against fraud in EU expenditure: action needs to be taken and Special Report No 06/2019 on combating fraud in EU expenditure: Managing authorities need to step up detection, response and coordination.
33 Finally, we have dedicated a special edition of the ECA dedicated to the fight against fraud and corruption and the protection of the EU's financial interests.
Focusing on the UN sustainability objectives at the heart of our audit work In recent years, when we have focused on environmental and climate issues, sustainability issues have been the most important.
In 2019, work on sustainable development was complemented by an analysis of the report on sustainable development.
This analysis reviewed the ways in which the EU institutions published sustainable development information and their contribution to the implementation of the SDGs of the United Nations.
Furthermore, we have organised a conference organised by the ESRB to raise awareness and gather important stakeholders.
In July, we took part in the meeting of the ORKB presidents and stakeholders on the "ORKB move around something: a test for the implementation of the SDGs" at the political forum of the UN at a high level on the 2030 Agenda.
Finally, we published a special edition of the ECA journal on the SDG.
Audit team: study on Sustainable Development Report: summary of EU institutions, bodies and agencies.
Institutional relations The constant increase in the presentation to the European Parliament, the Council and the national parliaments is still working with the European Parliament (EP), the Council and the national parliaments in the Member States, because the impact of our work depends to a large extent on the benefits that these institutions will enjoy from our results and recommendations.
Our audit reports will be presented to the relevant European Parliament committees and Council working parties.
Furthermore, we are presenting our annual reports, as well as our special reports and analyses of national Parliaments.
In 2019 the presentations of our reports to these institutional addressees were extended, mainly because of the significant increase in the presentation to national parliaments.
At the same time, as a result of the parliamentary break from mid-April to September 2019, the European Parliament held fewer presentations of 34.
The meeting with the newly elected Presidents of the EU institutions in 2019 was the year of the change led by many EU institutions: after they were elected, our President met with the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council.
35 President EuRH Lehne with EP President David Sassoli, President of the European Commission Ursula with Leyen and President of the Council Charles Michel.
The European Parliament Our members and control teams are regularly invited by the committees and bodies of the European Parliament to eilt and, in particular, by the Committee on Budgetary Control to do what is regularly invited.
In 2019, due to the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019, there were special conditions, as Parliamentary committees adjourned in mid-April and then resumed in September.
We presented 14 committees with 31 special reports and 10 analyses (2018: 39 reports and 14 committees).
After the elections, we launched an awareness-raising campaign to inform Members of the European Parliament of our activities as an external auditor of the EU.
We also organised a series of workshops for EP staff.
Finally, in October 2019, we created an information portal that will enable not only members of the EP, but also the general public to have easier access to our reports. 36
The Council of the European Union In 2019 our control teams presented 22 Council working groups and two committees of 26 special reports (2018: 40 reports and 27 working groups).
We also presented two analyses: one for the Committee on Budgets at the informal Council meeting in Romania and the other for the Working Group on the 2030 Agenda.
We were also involved in an exchange of views with the Financial Services Commission on an agreement with the European Central Bank and with the Budget Committee on our draft budget for 2020, and in December 2019 we presented our work programme for 2020.
In October 2019, the Eurogroup president visited us to discuss the state of play and future reforms of the Economic and Monetary Union and our potential contribution to financial and economic governance in the EU.
In May 2019 the president of the Eurogroup Working Group met with our members.
Member State governments and national parliaments More speeches in national parliaments Our Members regularly visit national parliaments and governments.
In 2019 we presented 90 presentations in 21 Member States (2018: 50 presentations in 14 Member States).
This is the highest number so far. 37
The European Commission Exchange of views with our authorities at the highest level For years we have been most common with our counterparts in the Commission every year.
These meetings will be an opportunity to summarise and consider ways to further improve our cooperation.
The European Central Bank continued this tradition in June 2019 when President Jean-Claude Juncker invited our members to exchange views with the College of Commissioners in Brussels.
In October 2019 we signed an agreement with the European Central Bank which laid down practical rules for the exchange of information on the supervisory activities of the European Central Bank with regard to our auditors.
Cooperation with the highest audit authorities (ORKB) Contact Committee of the annual EU-ORKB meeting in Poland in 2019. Cooperation with EU-ORKB bodies takes place primarily within the Contact Committee of EU-ORKB Presidents.
This EU-ORKB network enables us to support the activities of independent external financial control in the EU and its Member States.
In June 2019 we took part in the annual meeting organised by ORKB Polska, which also chaired the Presidency.
The discussions focused mainly on the challenges and opportunities created by the digital Europe for the European ORKB.
At this meeting, we took over the Presidency of the Contact Committee, as we do every three years.
Meeting of the Contact Committee, Warsaw, June 2019. 39
The "Public Financial Control in the EU" web portal In January 2019 we launched the web portal on financial control in the European Union.
The portal shall provide information on the mandate, status, organisational structure, activities and results of the main EU control authorities and their Member States.
The Public Health Examination Compendium in the EU In December 2019 we published on behalf of the Contact Committee the second Public Health Examination Compendium conducted throughout the European Union.
The Compendium provides basic information on public health, legal bases, basic objectives, competences at Member State and EU level and presents the main challenges facing the EU and its Member States.
It is based on the latest findings of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors from the 23 EU Member States.
In 2019 we started preparatory work for the third audit compendium to be published in 2020 and which will address the issue of cybersecurity 40.
INTOSAI continued to actively participate in the activities of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) in 2019, in particular as Vice-President of the Technical Standards Committee (since December 2016) as well as as as as a member of the Accounting Audit and Audit Committee, the Sub-Committee on the Verification of Compliance with Legal Standards and the Sub-Committee on Economic Audit.
We have also participated in the activities and projects of other INTOSAI bodies, in particular in the field of environmental impact assessment, large data collections, financial modernisation and regulatory reform, as well as in the assessment of public policies and programmes.
We also participated in the INTOSAI task force on the professionalisation of auditors, the INTOSAI development initiative (IDI) and the ISSAI 200 review project under the auspices of the ISSAI 200 Audit and Accounting Sub-Committee.
INTOSAI (INCOSAI) Congress takes part in September 2019 in Moscow.
The conference discussed two main issues in detail: information technologies for the development of the public administration and the contribution of the ORKW to the implementation of national priorities and objectives.
EUROSAI has also participated in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities (EUROSAI), the European Regional Group of INOSAI, in particular its working groups on environmental audit, IT audit and audit of civil protection assistance, and the audit and ethics task groups.
We also attended several workshops and seminars together with 14 other European organisations contributing to the publication of the Joint Air Quality Report. In October 2019 we held the 17th annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment and the Joint Conference on Biological Diversity. We also attended the third EUROSAI-ASOSAI Joint Conference on New Issues and Emergency Situations in Israel in March 2019 and the first EUROSAI-AFROSAI Joint Seminar in Lisbon in November 2019.
42nd Annual Meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment, October 2019
42 The CCCs of the applicant countries of the EU and potential applicant countries We also support the CCCs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo*, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey); this support is primarily provided through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through our support for the activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2019 10 examiners took part in our internship program in the ORKB network.
In addition, we have actively participated in meetings and activities of the network, including activities related to the management of issues such as accounting rules with greater impact and digital audit.
The peer review of other EU-ORKB units The peer review shall be an external independent verification of one or more elements of the organisation and/or functioning of the OBRK by a team of colleges from at least one OBRK.
It is not an exam, but an opinion and advice from colleges, which are voluntary.
In 2019 the peer review team chaired by our secretary-general, together with the Committee for Banking Supervision of Poland and the United Kingdom, carried out peer review and peer review of the ORB of Lithuania.
The main objective was to determine whether the audit practice of the Lithuanian ORB was in line with international audit standards.
In December 2019 the final report was submitted to the Lithuanian Parliament (Seimas) (Seimas). * This name is without prejudice to the position on the status of Kosovo and is in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the declaration of Kosovo's independence.
Our governance The members of the European Court of Human Rights act as a collegial body, consisting of a single member from each Member State.
After the appointment by the relevant national government, each Member shall be appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament.
We have no role in appointing and appointing members.
They shall have a solemn undertaking before the Court of Justice of the European Union at the time of their taking office.
43rd meeting of the College of ECA Members in Luxembourg on 18 July 2019
In 2019 the Council appointed four new members of the Court: Viorel W. Tefan (Romania) from 1 July 2019 and Ivana Maletić (Croatia) from 15 July 2019 and Joëlle Elvinger (Luxembourg) and François-Roger Cazala (France) from 1 January 2020.
In addition, three persons responsible for the appointment of the position were extended by the Council: Alex Brennankmeijer (the Netherlands), Nikolaos Millionis (Greece) and Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany).
Phil Wynn Owen (UK) was a member of Phil Owen until 31 January 2020.
Following the appointment of Janusz Wojciechowski as a member of the European Commission in December 2019 a member of the European Commission should be appointed and appointed as a member of the Polish Commission.
21 meetings of the College of ECA Members took place in 2019 (2018: 18 times).
The President's competence shall include an institution's strategy, performance planning and management, communication and media, relations with other institutions, legal issues and internal audit.
The President shall also represent the Court in all its external relations.
Members shall elect a president from among themselves for a period of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President and was re-voted in September 2019.
President and Members 44 NB: State of March 2020
Chambers and committees and members belong to one of our five chambers and most of our reports, analyses, opinions and work are being prepared and adopted in chambers.
Chambers shall be managed by Doyen or Doyenne, elected from among the Members of the Chamber.
Thanks to the stand of December 2019 the five examination rooms were managed by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Millionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Alex Brennankmeijer and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Ms Danièle Lamarque was a member responsible for quality control in the field of audit (until the end of her term of office in December 2019).
She has been chaired by the Committee on Quality Control in the field of audit.
The Chamber shall share its responsibilities among its members.
Each member shall be accountable to the Chamber and to the Court for his or her own control tasks.
Members are supported by the office.
In addition to the role played in the audit committees, some members also played other tasks: Oscar Herics headed the ethics committee, Jereb himself headed the audit committee, Eva Lindström in the digitisation committee, and João Figueiredo, in the advisory committee on strategies and prospects.
Rimantas Šadžius was a member responsible for institutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, chaired by the Chair 45.
46 Our highest level of management is the Secretary-General and the Director-General.
In total, there are 10 Directorates: five of them belong to the Examination Chambers, one to the Audit Quality Audit Committee, one to the President, and three to the Secretary-General.
Our highest level of management Note: The state of March 2020.
Measurement of results We use key performance indicators (KPIs) to inform our management about progress in our strategic objectives, to support decision-making and to inform our institutional addressees of our achievements.
These KPIs provide a broad picture of how we organize our work in the field of dissemination, impact and perception.
In 2019, as planned, we publish 36 reports. We monitor the number and timeliness of reports that are published throughout the year.
In 2019 we published 36 reports: 25 special reports and 11 analyses.
This corresponds to the number of publications provided for in the work programme.
The number of special reports published and analyses 47 In addition, we have issued six annual reports, three opinions, 18 audit analyses and four other publications.
Together, we prepared 67 publications per year.
Media presence Continuous increase in reporting in social media We follow media about our work and our institution, which may vary considerably depending on the subject and complexity of the report.
At the same time, external factors can have a major impact on media interest in our publications.
This may be the case, for example, where the date of publication of the report coincides with an important event or the development of the policy, which may significantly increase the public's interest in the subject in question.
In 2019 over 50,000 free articles and online articles were recorded in social media.
49 In 2019 we saw a significant increase in social media participation due to the more active use of these communication channels during the year.
We strengthened contacts with the press In 2019 we strengthened contacts with the press and the media.
We have done so by issuing 61 press releases in 23 EU languages (2018: 76), as well as numerous short press releases and tips in certain languages; 25 press releases (2018: 20), including what is happening in the sector and countries in connection with the annual report.
In general, such press meetings are held in Brussels.
We have also received journalists working in Brussels and in the Member States who took part in on-the-spot visits, and have organised several meetings on selected reports from stakeholders from the industry, NGOs and the industry.
Visit of journalists from Member States in Luxembourg in November 2019 50
A million visitors to our website in 2019 have exceeded a million visitors to our website for the first time.
In total, about 511,000 people visited us.
More We observe on social media All year round on social media we see an increase in our presence and involvement in social media not only on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedInu on Facebook, but also on Twitter and on Twitter not only, but also on Facebook Websites and LinkedInu on Twitter.
At the end of 2019, our three social media accounts registered around 29 500 followers (2018: around 22 500). 51
The impact and perception of our work 88% of stakeholders believe that our audit reports are useful, assess and assess the impact and the purpose of our audit work, and draw the attention of our stakeholders from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the EU agencies, the permanent representations of the Member States, the public authorities from Member States and stakeholders, non-governmental organisations, scientific organisations, the media and other parties.
Since 2018 we invite our stakeholders to comment on the selection of special reports and analyses and annual reports through anonymous electronic surveys.
These studies will enable interested parties to submit their comments on the quality of the reports and to submit general proposals on the Court's work.
In 2019 88% of respondents confirmed the relevance of our reports to their work.
52 Monitoring our recommendations Almost all of our recommendations are implemented Let us determine the state of play of our recommendations on the basis of the actions taken by our controllers.
In 2019 we analysed the recommendations published in our special reports in 2015 and in the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 96% of the recommendations made by us in our 2015 Annual Report and 94% of the recommendations published in our 2015 Special Reports have been fully, to a large extent or in part implemented in our 2015 Special Reports 53.
Our staff at the end of 2019 had 853 permanent and temporary posts (2018: 853 posts), including 534 posts in examination rooms, including 118 posts in the staff office.
54 Moreover, at the end of the year, the Court had 75 contract staff and 16 seconded national experts (76 and 15 respectively in 2018).
Adaptment of staff Our recruitment policy is in line with the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions. Our staff have a wide academic and professional environment.
In 2019 the Court employed 77 staff (2018: 79 staff): 17 officials, 33 temporary staff, 21 contract staff and six seconded national experts.
In addition, we have provided 55 traineeships (2018: 60) for university graduates for a period of between three and five months.
The age profile of nearly three quarters (74%) of staff working at the end of 2019 is 40 to 59 years old.
55 More than half of our directors and managers are 50 years of age or older.
Therefore, within the next five to ten years, when the workers retire, there will be a renewal of the management positions.
Equal opportunities The Court offers its employees at all levels of equal opportunities for work.
Overall, we have a balanced participation of women and men among our employees.
In 2019 about a third of our directors and managers are women.
57 Support for control activities Vocational training record number of training activities In 2019 we continued to diversify and expand the offer of training for our employees.
We have organised a record number of training courses, conferences, presentations and workshops on a number of topics.
We continued to provide financial support to employees to participate in external courses and programmes to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and qualifications.
We have also started a management skills development programme, which consists of courses, coaching and mentoring for employees who want to develop their management skills.
We supported the work processes in the HR department by training newly created groups of professional advisors, mentors and internal mediators.
We crossed the limits of hours of training We crossed the limits of days of vocational training (5 days per year) as recommended by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).
Our controllers have undergone an average of 7.5 days of training, i.e. an average of 3.6 days of training.
Cooperation in the field of training in July 2019. the second summer academy in the field of public control and public responsibility took place at the University of Pisa on the digitisation of control.
We also continued to cooperate with the University of Lorraine, which offered the fifth edition of "Audit of public organisations and policies," which leads to the Master's "Management of public organisations."
We also started a new postgraduate program entitled "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit."
These programmes are now open to European Commission staff.
Finally, we have strengthened cooperation with the International NATO Control Committee (IBAN) in the field of training.
In May 2019 the Court held a workshop on the Review of the Union's Security and Defence Policy, during which Commission inspectors responsible for security and defence policy, NATO, the European Defence Agency, the Joint Organisation for Defence Cooperation (OCCAR), the Athens Mechanism, and several of the EU's highest control bodies met.
Launching ECAdema We have also launched ECAdemy, a tool for exchanging materials for courses, publishing entries at conferences and organising webinars with all those interested in public control in the EU and its Member States.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
58 Sabine Chaupain-Guillot, Vice-President of the Lorraine University Training Committee, Lazaros S. Lazarou, EuRH member (February 2019).
Translation In 2019 we have translated and modified over 223 000 pages, including external orders (2018: 251 000).
We translate our publications into all the official languages of the EU.
In addition, we translate our correspondence with the authorities of the Member States in their national language in accordance with legal requirements.
Our translators are also often involved in our research, providing language support during our inspection visits and reporting.
Information technology, work environment and innovation The transition to cloud-based services One of the most important steps is the transition to cloud-based services, and most of the time the different applications of end-users (IT, personnel issues, office equipment, safety, etc.) have been made available to the user-friendly system.
The new IT Security Action Plan has achieved a number of objectives, such as a more effective and regular removal of software barriers, preventing unauthorised access to cloud services, reviewing information security management and enhancing our security monitoring capabilities.
Finally, an ambitious technical programme was implemented in 2019 to provide devices and systems that enable all workers to operate more flexibly, e.g. domestic offices, teleconferences and mobile work.
New open access policy In 2019 we also adopted a new open access policy.
The re-use of documents and the process of sharing our data are determined in cooperation with the Publications Office 59.
ECALAB ECALAB, our interdisciplinary team of innovation lab, continued to investigate technologies such as text mining, artificial intelligence and process mining.
In 2019 ECALAB also started supporting a number of control tasks.
The Technology and Innovation Network for Control The EU-ORKB for Technology and Innovation for Audit (TINA) was established in November 2019 at a conference on "Big and open data" held at our premises in Luxembourg.
Big and open date conference, November 2019, Luxembourg.
In order to support the development of the European service infrastructure blocking by the European Commission and the Member States on the basis of our 'declaration', another EU-ORKB blocking technology network has been established in the control area of 60.
The Farm building currently has three buildings ("K1, "K2" and "K3"), which constitute one integrated technical unit.
K1 The building opened in 1988 offers an office for up to 310 staff and conference rooms.
Downstairs there are parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses, library and main archive, while the entire floor is used for technical installations.
The K1 building was modernised in 2008 in order to adapt it to national health, safety and environmental requirements.
As far as possible, the technology in the K1 building has been adapted to ensure compatibility with the K2 and K3 buildings.
In the the projectiles there are parking lots, technical equipment, warehouses and the fitness centre.
Other missiles are used in offices for up to 241 employees, where there are conference rooms, conference room with conference rooms, conference room, conference room, café and rooms that are simple in the kitchen.
We are currently modernising the K2 building to optimise the organisation of its tasks and to modernise certain technical installations.
In 2019 a detailed study of this project was carried out and work started at the end of the year.
In line with the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining budgetary resources of the K3 project completed a few years ago 61 to finance this modernisation.
Hangars include parking lots, technical installations, warehouses, unloading zones, waste storage facilities, printers, kitchens and archives.
In addition, this building contains offices for 503 staff, conference rooms and IT room.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) building K3 was rated as "very good" 62 on the basis of the world's leading building sustainability assessment and certification (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, BREEAM).
Further increasing our security measures In 2019 we have taken a number of measures to increase the security of our buildings in Luxembourg.
Among them was the creation of an armed team of security personnel.
We have an agreement with the Luxembourg police, which will allow us to use national training centres.
Furthermore, we agreed with the European External Action Service to help our auditors visit high-risk countries.
63 Eduardo Ruiz García, Secretary-General of EuRH and Helga Schmid, Secretary-General of the EEAS.
Environmental management As an EU institution, we have an obligation to respect the principle of good environmental management in all activities.
We continue to systematically reduce CO2 emissions and regularly analyse greenhouse gas emissions caused by our actions.
In 2018, greenhouse gas emissions amounted to a total of 10 178 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), representing a 30% reduction compared to 2017.
We are proud of our EMAS certification for environmental management and audit: we successfully implement an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
In the last quarter of 2019 an external verification of EMAS was carried out which led to the renewal of the EMAS certificate for the period 2020-2022.
New initiatives, such as the 'Be plastic European Criminal Court' initiative, are planned.
In 2019, in cooperation with the Luxembourg Ministry of Agriculture, we created four hives in our gardens.
Bees are supervised by volunteers.
We assume that this will have a positive impact on the sustainability of pollinators in our surroundings 64.
The Court's liability The Court's financial information is financed by the general budget of the European Union and its budget covers administrative expenditure.
In 2019 our budget was around 147 million euro, of which 98% was used during the year.
This represents less than 0,1% of the total EU expenditure or around 1.5% of the total EU administrative expenditure.
2 October 2 European 14 took 14 2 total took 2 324 20 3 524 20 unnecessary buildings 3 526 210. 2 085 3 523 Use of funds in % RO of the budget 2019 Final appropriations Title 1: Members and commitments 97 % 99 % Payment of staff. Institutions (EUR week) 11 004 10 96363 12 week 11. 963 12. Officials and temporary staff 107 367 14 in the 14th century. Other staff and external services 6 6 683 10 434 99 3 1085 434 434 423 took and various operating expenses and various operating expenses in 3 008 2 4 4 008 2 4 553 97 % 98 2 and 201 128 20 4 696 Buildings and external expenditure 976 8 085 100 % 5 5 2 ) 5.2 in Other total expenditure Staff and staff expenditure 424 8 8 90 % 7.
Budget 2020 Budgets in the 2020 budget increased by 4.3% compared to 2019.
Budget 2020 2019 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 ▁poprzeć Members of the institution 11 751 12 active officials and temporary staff 111 860 14 and external staff 7 403 11 406 active officials and external staff 3 370 161 + 416 4 3 10 Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 11 474 66 107 666 6 381 3 450 Total Title 1 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating expenditure 2 945 137 3 898 069 20 for buildings 3 for 2 255 2 984 210 for telecommunications 7 7 605 312 + 214 + 216 265 998 23 Operational expenditure for operation 563 25 Operational expenditure 696 27 active information and publications 2 613 Total Title 2 15 808 European Court of Auditors total 153 137 548 700 1 986 14 821 146 890
Internal audit and external audit Internal audit body shall advise the Court on issues relating to risk management.
It provides independent and objective guarantees and advice in order to increase the added value and improve the Court's activities.
In addition, they shall report to the Internal Audit Committee, consisting of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee shall regularly monitor the progress made in the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the internal audit body and shall ensure its independence.
In 2018, the Internal Audit Service carried out three selected tasks: "Risk and challenges of the Audit Quality Control Committee," "Mission expenses of high-level members and officials, expenditure on the representation of members and the use of the Court's fleet" and "Training activities of the Court."
In addition, our risk management strategy and three annual declarations by the authorising officers by sub-delegated have been reviewed.
In addition, the Internal Audit Department monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations by checking the implementation of the agreed action plans, as well as advising on issues related to the Court's new internal control framework.
Our internal auditor did not show any shortcomings which, due to their nature or scope, could seriously undermine the overall credibility of internal control systems; the control systems were introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations in 2019.
External audit Our annual accounts are audited by an independent external auditor.
This study is extremely important because it shows that we apply the same principles of transparency and accountability as we apply to the bodies we study.
The Court's report on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2018 was published on 4 April 2019. 67
For the Court's annual accounts, the annual accounts, by 31 December 2018, by 31 December 2018, by 31 December 2018, were accompanied by the annual accounts, as well as the results of the operations, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending on that date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1) as amended, hereinafter referred to as "the Financial Regulation', and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 148/2012 of 29 October 2012 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1) as amended, hereinafter referred to as "the Financial Regulation'.
(OJ L 362, 31.12.2012, p. 1) on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation and its subsequent amendments.';
Regarding the use of resources and the Court's audit procedure: "In the framework of our actions described in this report, we are not in a situation which would require us to state that, in respect of all relevant matters and in the light of the above evaluation criteria, the appropriations allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and o, the control procedures do not ensure that financial transactions have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
The discharge for the financial year 2017 As with the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In March 2019 the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2017.
As every year, we have carried out an in-depth analysis of all the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our responsibility for control and management and we are taking the appropriate measures and we are keeping the European Parliament informed in detail of our follow-up.
Mutual evaluation of our ethical framework Finally, in 2019 our ethical framework was subjected to an external specialist evaluation by the Observatory of Poland and Croatia.
This report was finalised in January 2020 69
The statement by the authorising officer by delegation in accordance with Article 74 (9) of the Financial Regulation The statement by the authorising officer by delegation of the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors hereby declares that the information contained in this report, as well as the additional internal information, in order to fulfil my duties, including financial and management information, including the results of the checks, are correct and accurate and with reasonable assurance that the appropriations made available as part of the actions described in this report have been used for the purpose and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and, where appropriate, the control procedures, that the appropriations have been used to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, and to ensure the sound management of the regulations.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 March 2020.
The re-use of the following images is allowed with the name of the copyright holder, the source and, where appropriate, the names of photographers or architects: S. 2, © European Union, 2020, sources: ESRB.
S. 6, 32, 33, 38 (lower), 41, 42, 43, 50, 58, 60, 63 and 64, © European Union, 2019, Source: ECO.
S. 15, first government, law, © European Union, 2010 / Carlos Juan.
S. 15, Sieder, Mitte, © European Union, 2013, Source: EP / Bauweraerts Didier.
S. 17, © European Union, 2013, Source: EP / Jennifer Jacquemart.
S. 19, © European Union, 2015 / Angelos Tzortzinis.
S. 21, © European Union, 2016, Source: EP / Fred Marvaux.
S. 26, left, © European Union, 2019 / Anouk Delafortrie.
S. 26, on the right, © European Union, 2019, Lisa Hastert.
S. 28, © European Union, 2019, Source: EP / Benoit Bourgeois.
S. 35, left, © European Union, 2019, Source: EP (20191022_EP-093734A_DLL_007).
S. 35, Mitte, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission.
S. 35, Laws, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Council.
S. 38, above, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission, Audiovisual Service / Etienne Ansotte.
Council Decision (EU) 2015/190 of 16 January 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 January 2020 to 25 January 2020.
Building architects: Paul Noël (1988) and Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013).
If you want to use or play content where the EU does not have copyright, you need to obtain permission directly from the copyright owners: pp. 7 and 8: icons of images in pixels perfect on the platform https://flaticon.com.
S. 12, from left to right: © contains modified data from Sentinel Copernicus (2018) processed by GeoVille; © Shutterstock / Andrey_Popov; © Shutterstock / G-Stock Studio.
© Shutterstock / Antonio Guillem; © Shutterstock / Gododenkoff; © Shutterstock / igorstevanovic.
S. 15, first row, left, © Shutterstock / trillion Photos; S. 15, first row, middle, © Shutterstock / Gorodenkoff.
S. 15, second row, left, © Shutterstock / LMWH; S. 15, second row, right, © Shutterstock / Photolines.
S. 15, last row, left to right: © Shutterstock / Syda Productions; © Shutterstock / Jenson; © Image courtesy of EUROCONTROL.
S. 18, © Shutterstock / Bannafarsai_Stock.
S. 20, © Shutterstock / pisaphotography.
S. 26, Mitte, © NCI Benelux, 2019.
S. 39, © NIK (Highest Chamber of Control), Warsaw, 2019.
Contact the EU Visit to the European Union There are hundreds of Europe Direct information offices.
With this link, you will find an information office nearby: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en Phone or e-mail Europe Direct answers your questions about the European Union.
Contact Europe Direct using our free phone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some operators 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some operators call but charge), at: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_de EU information On the Internet You can find information about the European Union in all official languages: https://europa.eu/european-union/index_en EU publications (https://publications.europa.eu/en/publications/index_en.htm) More information about the European Union at https://publications.europa.eu/eu/en/publications (https://publications.europa.eu/en/en/publications).
If you want to receive a few copies of a free publication, please contact Europe Direct or the information office nearby (see https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1952 in all official languages, can be found at EUR-Lex: https://eur-lex.europa.eu Open EU data on the EU website (http://data.europa.eu/euodp/en) (http://data.europa.eu/euodp/europa.eu/).
Data can be downloaded free of charge for commercial and non-commercial purposes.
ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 QJ-AA-20-001-DE-C
DE EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT OF OF COURT OF COURT OF ACCOUNT 2013 Brief information on EU audit Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2014 ISBN 978-92-872-0998-6 doi:10.2865/23970 © European Union, 2014 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
PL 2013 Brief information on the EU review Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
Preface by President 02 Each year in November, the European Court of Auditors shall present the results of its annual audits of the EU's financial management in the previous financial year.
On the basis of the evidence obtained, the Court ensures that the use of EU funds is reliable and stresses to the extent to which and to the extent that EU funds have not been used correctly.
The reports also contain recommendations on possible improvements in EU financial management.
In this way, the Court supports the European Parliament and the Council in the review of EU expenditure and contributes to the effective fulfilment of the calculation obligations towards EU citizens.
In this short-term information on the 2013 EU review, the 2013 review refers to the key findings of our annual EU budget implementation reports in 2013 or the reports on European Development Funds.
As in previous years, the reports indicate to the extent to which the bodies responsible for EU and national financial management have provided a reliable picture of financial management in their reports, have ensured the application of EU financial rules and respect for fundamental principles in terms of savings, efficiency and efficiency.
2013 was the last year of the seven-year programming period and we publish our progress reports this financial year during a transitional period of major importance for the EU and its finances.
As our reports show, the new European Parliament and the new Commission are facing long and new challenges of financial management and accountability in the current 2014-2020 programming period.
The continued impact on EU finances and national pressures requires careful management and control of EU funds as well as better forecasts for long-term financing.
In particular, we emphasise in our reports that the Commission and the authorities in the Member States should make greater use of EU funds in their EU budget to achieve results that cannot be equally effective and otherwise effective.
At the same time, the Court's audit shows that further action can and should be taken to ensure that EU action is taken in accordance with the rules.
The Court will be pleased to take the opportunity to help the new European Parliament and the Commission to address these and other problems related to financial management and the Commission's calculation obligation at EU level.
To this end, on the basis of our experience with control, we have also prepared two analyses on rural areas, which point to the main challenges facing the EU in terms of accountability, auditing and financial management.
Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors
Heading 03 Page 04 General results 04 Key comments 05 Appropriate use of EU 15 funds and results 18 More information on revenue and expenditure areas 18 Revenue 20 Agriculture: Market support and direct payments 22 Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 24 Regional, transport and energy policy 26 Employment and social affairs 28 External relations, external assistance and enlargement 30 Research and other areas of internal policy 32 Administrative and related expenditure 33 European Development Fund (EDF) 35 General information 35 Audit approach at a glance 37 European Court of Auditors and its work
General results 04 Summary of Statement of Assurance for 2013 The European Court of Auditors (ECA) delivered an opinion (ECA) on the reliability of the European Union accounts for 2013.
Revenue for 2013 is generally legal and regular.
The 2013 budget commitments are generally legal and regular.
There are significant errors in payments for 2013.
The Court therefore gives an incomplete opinion on legality and regularity.
The text of the Statement of Assurance sets out Chapter 1 of the Annual Report for the financial year 2013. The EU Court estimates the error rate which measures the level of irregularities at 4,7% in 2013 compared to the error rate for 2012 (4,8%) and at a constant level above the materiality threshold of 2%. EU Overall, the assessed supervisory and control systems at the level of 2013 ensured a zero regularity of payments as a result of disparities between Member States. ο In the weakest areas of expenditure on regional policy, transport and energy, with a error rate of 6,9% and rural development, environment, fisheries and health, with an error rate of 6,7%.
As part of shared management, the total error rate was 5,2%. ο Recovery and recovery measures by Member State authorities and the Commission, including agriculture: market support and direct payments, employment and social affairs, and the error rate estimated was 5,2%. ο Recovery and recovery measures by Member State authorities and the Commission were positive of the estimated error rate.
General results 05 Proper use of EU funds Every year EU funds for 2013 The Court reviews EU revenue and expenditure and assesses how reliable the annual accounts are and revenue and expenditure operations comply with the rules and rules.
In 2013, spending from the EU budget amounted to EUR 148.5 billion or around EUR 290 per citizen.
These expenditures account for around 1% of the EU's gross national income and account for around 2% of the total public expenditure of the EU Member States.
The EU budget is adopted annually by the European Parliament and the Council on the basis of the seven-year financial framework.
It is primarily the Commission's responsibility to ensure that budgets are spent correctly.
In the case of around 80% of expenditure. In particular in the area of agriculture and cohesion the Commission shares this task with the EU Member States.
Where's the money coming from?
The EU budget is financed from different sources.
The largest percentage is payments made by Member States on the basis of their gross national income (EUR 110,0 billion).
Other sources include payments made by Member States on the basis of VAT (EUR 14.5 billion) and agricultural duties and duties (EUR 15.4 billion).
The EU's annual budget is spent in a number of policy areas (see Figure 1).
In the case of payments, various activities such as research, training for the unemployed or agricultural production should be supported.
Total results 06 Expenditure 2013 6,9% Administrative and related expenditure 8,9% Research and other internal policies 9.4 % Employment and social affairs 9.9% Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 4.2% External expenditure, external assistance and enlargement 2013 total EUR 148.5 billion 30,4 % Regional policy, transport and energy 30,3% Agriculture: market support and direct payments Control 2013 Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 4.2% Total expenditure 148.5 billion EUR 30,4 % Regional policy, transport and energy 30,3% Agriculture: market support and direct payments Control 2013 Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 4.2% Control of samples of operations carried out from all parts of the EU budget in order to obtain statistical estimates in so far as there are errors in income and in the various areas of expenditure.
The 2013 results are summarised in Figure 2.
For more information on the Court's approach to audit and the estimation of the most likely error rate, see page 35.
Audit of transactions in the EU budget as a whole - Results 2013 Results The corrected amount and most likely error rate Revenue Audit result 0.00% 4,7% 150 billion EUR Not significantly affected by errors Significantly EUR 0 30 billion 60 billion EUR 90 billion EUR 120 billion % Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on errors identified in the statistical sample of transactions) Figure 2 Figure 1
Overall results 07 In 2013, the Court concluded that revenue was not largely burdened by errors.
For the general budget of expenditure, the estimated error rate is 4.7%, leading to a wrong opinion on the regularity of expenditure (explaining the concept of 'explaining' with regard to the regularity of expenditure on page 36).
For more information on the specific expenditure areas, see pages 18-34 and the corresponding chapters of the annual report for the financial year 2013.
Audit of transactions in individual areas of EU spending 307 Results in 2013. Verified amount and most likely error rate 6,9 % 3,6% 3,6% 6,7 % 4,6% 2,6% Expenditure in employment and social expenditure Verified error in regional policy, transport and energy The agricultural audit proposal: market support and direct payments for rural development, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies In external policy, external and enlargement, administrative expenditure and related expenditure 1,0 % 0 10 billion EUR 20 billion EUR 40 billion EUR 50 billion The likely error rate (estimated error rate based on error based on quantified errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Note: The Court uses standard statistical methods to estimate error (see Annex 1.1 to Chapter 1 of the annual report). % Audit results.08 Audit analysis The control of the error rate based on which the level of errors in payments for 2013 is measured is 4,7%.
These figures are close to the 2012 error rate (4,8%) and are consistently higher than the materiality threshold of 2 % (see Figure 4). Estimated error rate for the EU budget for the period 2007-2013, 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 6,9% 5.2 % 4,8% 4,8%3,3% 3,7% 3,9% 2007 2008 Maximum error rate for 2009 2010 2012 2013 % Estimated error rate Lower error rate Note: Standard statistical methods are used to estimate the most likely error rate.
The Court is 95 percent certain that the level of error in the population is within the range between the lower threshold of error and the upper threshold of error.
For more information see Annex 1.1 and Annex 1.3 to Chapter 1 of the annual report.
Overall results 09 Mistakes, waste and abuse, estimated by the Court, the error rate is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste.
It is a source of funds that could not be paid because they were not used in accordance with the applicable rules.
Typical errors include payments for ineligible expenditure or purchases for which procurement rules have not been correctly applied.
Fraud is a deliberate fraud aimed at obtaining benefits.
The Court shall refer the cases to which the Court is concerned in the course of the audits and where it suspects that they are fraud to OLAF (the Anti-Fraud Office in the European Union), which shall be responsible for carrying out any further investigations.
A comparison of the estimated error rate for the different expenditure areas is shown in Figure 5.
Greater amounts in the field of research and other internal policies and in the field of administrative expenditure and related expenditure have been compensated by the reduction of amounts in the field of rural development, the environment, fisheries and health, and external relations, external assistance and enlargement.
As in 2012, the two areas of expenditure in the framework of regional policy, transport and energy, as well as rural development, the environment, fisheries and health, the biggest errors have been noted.
These two areas, together with two other areas of shared management (agricultural: market support and direct payments, employment and social affairs), show an estimated 5.2% error rate.
For all other operational expenditure (mainly managed directly by the Commission), the estimated error rate was 3.7 %.
The Court also noted an estimated error rate of 1,0% in administrative expenditure.
Overall results 10 Comparison of estimated error rates in the various areas of EU spending 2012 and 2013 8% 6% 4% 2% 0 6.8 % 6.9 % 6.9 % 2012 7.9% 3.8% 3.8% 3.8% 3.1 % 4.6 % 3.9 % 3.3% 0% 2.6% 0% 1.0 % regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct support Employment and social development of rural areas, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and expansion of administrative and related expenditure on graph 5
General results 11 Breakdown of the estimated overall error rate by expenditure sector and error category Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Employment and social research and other internal policies External policy, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 4.7 % Errors in agricultural areas Serious violations of procurement rules Unqualified projects, actions or beneficiaries Inclusion of ineligible costs in 1.8% Expenditure results % Estimated error rate in the EU budget overall: % % %2,1% 1,1% 0.7% Other types of error 0.3% 0.1% 0.1% 0.3% 0.3% of error rate overall 0.6% 1,1% Share of estimated overall error rate by type of error by expenditure category: 6
Overall results 12 The Court analyses the contribution of the different types of errors and the different expenditure areas to the estimated overall error rate (see Figure 6).
Expenditure that did not meet the conditions for the submission of an application for projects funded by the EU accounted for the largest part of the estimated total error rate (including ineligible costs in the statement of expenditure: 39% or 1.8 percentage points of the estimated total error rate).
Second, projects which could not, in accordance with the rules in force, have been financed by the activity or the beneficiary could not be supported (unqualified projects/actions/beneficiary: 22% or 1.1 percentage points of the estimated overall error rate).
As the largest area of expenditure, which represents the largest estimated error rate, regional policy, transport and energy are by far the most contributing to the estimated overall error rate (44% or 2.1 pro-points of the estimated overall error rate).
Agriculture: Market support and direct payments, where expenditure levels were almost the same, contribute approximately half the estimated overall error rate.
Recovery has a positive impact on the level of error in the Member States and the Commission in order to protect the EU budget in cases of ineffective control systems or irregular expenditure.
In the absence of such corrective action for the 2013 payments audited by the Court, the estimated total error rate in 2013 would be 6,3% instead of 4,7%.
However, the estimated error rate could still be significantly reduced by improving the use of existing control systems and corrective actions.
The Court found that, in the case of a significant proportion of the errors in the case of shared management, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct errors before submitting a request for reimbursement to the Commission.
For example, this would reduce the estimated level of error in regional policy, transport and energy from 6.9 to 3.9%, in rural development, the environment, fisheries and health from 6.7% to 2.0%, and in employment and social affairs from 3.1% to 1.9%.
New challenges in providing reliable financial information The report on the corrections mentioned above does not clearly identify the main types of corrections for financial corrections and this information is largely made available outside the accounting system.
This hinders more in-depth analysis and reduces the accuracy of the figures in the financial statements and financial statements.
Further changes are the increasing use of financial instruments supporting investments in potentially viable projects in the form of loans, guarantees, equity and other risk instruments.
Due to the complexity of the financial instruments, their assessment and recording require particular care in accordance with the international public sector accounting principles.
Overall results 13 Continuous increase in amounts to be financed from future budgets The main features of EU budget and financial management in 2013 include the EU's strong increase in the volume of payments that the Commission could make through the amending budgets: 9.6% of the original budget; the EU's steady increase in commitments that will be the basis for payments in the future (2.6%) despite the large volume of payments; the EU's long period (over two years on average) between the date of initial budgetary commitments and the date of the Commission's adoption of the statement of expenditure; the EU's only 37% of payments to financial instruments to final beneficiaries at the end of 2012; the EU's payments, interest and dividends of EUR 259 million that have been accumulated since 2008 have not been included as revenue.
What are commitments and payments?
The EU budget consists of two elements: commitments (amounts to be paid in current or next year) and payments (amounts to be paid in current year).
Payments may only be made in respect of important budgetary commitments.
The annual ceilings for commitment and payment appropriations shall be laid down in the multiannual financial framework agreed by the Council and the Parliament.
The nature of EU spending programmes, and in particular the long period between commitment and payment, is putting increasing pressure on future payment budgets.
This shows a much higher payment budget in 2013, and this trend will continue to be similar in future budgets.
General results 14 How does the Court consider that budgetary and financial management may increase the quality of the information on the functioning of the correction mechanisms (time point, origin and type) and the accuracy of the figures by requesting information under the traditional accounting systems of the ο, ο in order to record and evaluate all financial instruments and financial instruments in the public sector, in line with internationally recognised accounting principles, in particular through reliable valuation procedures, the ο in order to provide information on the financial resources held for the payment to the final beneficiaries of the ο in order to draw up and publish an estimate of the financial flows of the ο that will be updated on an annual basis, to facilitate the identification of future payment needs and the identification of budgetary priorities for the entities concerned. ο in order to draw up and publish an annual estimate of the cash flows.
For full information on the main findings of the audit, see Chapter 1 on the reliability and presentation of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
The overall results of EU 15 funds and results should be used in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (savings, efficiency and efficiency).
In order to achieve good results, it is therefore necessary to implement the programme of financial measures (resources, human, material, organisational or regulatory resources), the results (to be achieved under the programme), the results (to be achieved under the programme, initial changes to the programme, including changes to direct or direct beneficiaries) and the effects (long-term social changes, at least partly linked to EU action).
The Court assesses these aspects in its economic audits.
Not enough attention has been paid to implementation During the 2007-2013 programming period, EU funds focused on absorption (use it or fate it attention to non-use), on compliance, not on good results.
For example, when selecting projects to be funded by the EU, there was a need to use available EU funds and, to some extent, there was a need to comply with EU rules and to some extent to achieve results and results.
This focus on results is a key drawback in the way a large part of the EU budget is built.
According to the Commission, the focus for the 2014-2020 programming period is to a greater extent on elimination, with reserves with the main impetus for implementation.
With these reserves, the Commission will suspend 6% of the resources allocated to individual Member States until they are considered satisfactory.
However, in practice, the input and output indicators will remain largely in line with funding.
The result indicators will only be used by the Commission in certain areas.
The more efficient functioning of performance-related reserves will depend on how effectively the Commission will succeed in negotiating the relevant milestones and milestones at the beginning of the programming period and on whether the Member States will keep up-to-date accurate, reliable and up-to-date data to determine whether these objectives have been achieved.
The reporting framework is not adequate in relation to the expected culture of results The report on results is spread over several general reports at the level of the general budget.
These reports do not provide any information on the progress made towards the Europe 2020 objectives and do not provide a comprehensive review of the results in the form of EU added value.
However, the fourth evaluation report is a step in the right direction, as it seeks to combine the main financial programmes with the available information on the results that are relevant to the Europe 2020 strategy.
At the level of each Commission Directorate-General, the policy performance targets are set out in the management plans and are set out in the annual activity reports.
The Court's analysis of the management plans and the annual reports on the activities of the Commission's DG revealed that the assurance of assurance is limited to the aspects of the regularity and internal control and that it does not take account of the performance aspects.
In addition, the objectives are too general to be used for management purposes, and the selected indicators are not always suitable for performance measurement purposes.
Overall results 16 The added value of EU expenditure is not always demonstrated in 19 special reports adopted by the Court in 2013 in the framework of performance controls, a wide range of issues were discussed, as well as an assessment as to whether the EU intervention was carried out in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (savings, efficiency and efficiency).
The Court examined the conclusions of its special reports on the implementation of the new programmes and projects adopted in 2013 in the 2014-2020 programming period and concluded that the EU added value could not always be guaranteed.
Example: The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund provides compensation to workers affected by collective redundancies.
The Court found that a third of the resources allocated to actions to be paid by the Member States (Special Report No 7/2013 that the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund provided the EU's added value in terms of the reintegration of redundant workers into wine).
For example, a risk-sharing funding mechanism, the Commission has not sufficiently demonstrated that the EU funds allocated under the risk-sharing financing instrument (the financing instrument aimed at facilitating access to debt financing in the field of research) lead to greater investments than the funds that beneficiaries would have purchased without public funding (Special Report No 2/2013 on ensuring the effective implementation of the Seventh Framework Programme in the field of research by the Commission?)
Overall results 17 Most of the Court's recommendations have been injected The Court's follow-up of recommendations made by the Court as a result of the audit of performance is a key element of the audit cycle and can contribute to the effective implementation by the Commission of the recommendations contained in the reports.
The Court examined how the Commission's recommendations in the eight special reports adopted in 2007-2010 continued to apply and concluded that the Commission had implemented in full or to a large extent 79% of the recommendations.
The Court recommends the Commission: ο The Commission should improve the reporting framework for the next revision of the Financial Regulation. ο The Commission should ensure that the evaluation report summarises all available information on the progress made towards the Europe 2020 objectives. ο The Commission should further develop the performance management and reporting system so that it can be responsible for the sound financial management and the contribution of the EU budget to political success.
Full information on the Court's evaluation of the results can be found in Chapter 10 of the EU budget and the results of this annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
All special reports are available on the Court's website: http://www.eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/AuditReports Opinions.aspx.
In 2013, the contributions to the Member States' basic gross national income (GNI) and the VAT charged by the Member States represented 74% and 10% of the income respectively.
Import duties and sugar production duties charged by the Member States' authorities on behalf of the EU account for 10% of the EU's revenue and the remaining 6% are derived from other revenue.
Explanations on the analysis of EU revenue The EU revenue based on GNI and VAT shall be calculated on the basis of macroeconomic statistics and estimates of data provided by the Member States.
The Court's audit of the regularity of the underlying transactions refers to the processing of the data by the Commission and not to the preliminary collection of the data by the Member States' authorities.
Consequently, the Court's request concerns the impact of possible errors of the Commission on the total amount of revenue.
As regards customs duties, the Court examines how the Commission is acting in the manner in which the Member States submit information on the powers established.
These data are not sufficiently harmonised among the Member States.
The reservation is an instrument which allows for an adjustment for GNI data transmitted by the Member State in respect of the disputed element.
There is a general reservation for Greek GNI data for 2008 and 2009 as these data are still based on preliminary estimates.
This is part of the problem that affects the macroeconomic accounts of Greece.
For more information on the areas of revenue and expenditure 19 The customs authorities of the Member States shall carry out checks to verify that importers comply with customs and import rules.
The Court noted that the quality of the checks was very different in the Member States in which the visits were carried out.
This may lead to a decision by importers to notify the goods in a Member State other than that in which they are established in order to reduce the likelihood of controls and reduce the levying of fees due.
An example seems to be one of the importers who, in Hamburg, Germany, disposed of Chinese textile products to transport them to Rotterdam, where they were declared for free circulation, and then disposed of them in Poland for their final sale.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο Commission should seek to harmonise the methods for the calculation of the data on unseen economic activities by the Member States. ο Commission should draw up a detailed action plan containing a detailed action plan containing clear steps of action and to closely monitor its implementation in order to address the problems of the creation of the Greek national accounts. ο Commission should establish minimum standards for controls carried out by customs authorities in the Member States in order to ensure better targeting importers at high risk. Do you want to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU revenue can be found in Chapter 2 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
20 This expenditure area includes the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EGF), one of the two main instruments of the EU's common agricultural policy.
The aim of this policy is to increase the productivity of agriculture, ensure an adequate standard of living for the agricultural population, stabilise the markets, ensure supplies and ensure a fair supply of consumers.
Expenditure shall be managed shared with the Member States.
Yes Estimated error rate: 3.6% (2012): 3.8 %) Checked control systems: Conditionally checked Most expenditure in this area is calculated on the basis of agricultural land.
Many of the quantifiable errors are due to the inaccuracies in the applications of the beneficiaries, most of which are distorted (see example).
For example: excessive declarations of ineligible land In Germany, Ireland, Greece, France, Poland and Romania*, some areas that have been recognised as permanent grassland have been recognised as areas for which payments have been paid, in fact planted in whole or in part ineligible vegetation (head or tree).
For these ineligible areas, Union aid could not be paid.
This error occurred in Greece because the land was classified as eligible grassland and the agricultural parcel identification system was duly taken into account.
Examples of errors should reflect the most common types of errors.
They do not give rise to conclusions on the Member States, beneficiary countries and/or regions concerned.
For all direct aid schemes under the EAGF, the beneficiaries of EU aid are legally obliged to comply with the existing obligations (cross compliance principle) concerning the protection of the environment, human, animal and plant health and animal welfare, as well as the protection of land in good agricultural and environmental condition.
Where farmers fail to fulfil those obligations, their aid shall be reduced.
As a result of the audit, the Court found infringements in 25% of the cases in which those obligations were linked.
In the event of a significant number of errors, the authorities of the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct errors before requesting reimbursement to the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission was notified of expenditure, the estimated error rate in this respect would have been 2,5%.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 21 The Court's analysis of integrated management and control systems (IACS) in four Member States (Germany, Ireland, France and Italy) has revealed weaknesses in the management and quality control procedures of the databases in the three Member States (Ireland, France and Italy), and the EU's weaknesses in quality of on-the-spot checks in the two Member States (Germany and Italy), the EU weaknesses in the recovery procedures in the two Member States (Ireland and Italy).
Despite the deficiencies found during the controls, the IAEA contributes, in principle, to the prevention of errors in the expenditure covered by the scheme.
In the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 or later, producer groups in the fruit and vegetables sector may receive EU aid.
For the purposes of the recognition of the producer group, certain conditions concerning the number and relative size of the members must be fulfilled.
The Court found that nine of the 40 sampled producer groups in Poland did not meet these conditions.
In its 2013 Annual Activity Report, the Commission noted that in Poland it had reserved a risk of 25% of the total expenditure of the measure in question.
Our recommendations The Court recommends: ο The Commission and the Member States should take the necessary steps to ensure full exploitation of the potential of the CCS: to this end, for example, they should ensure that the eligibility and size of agricultural parcels are properly assessed and recorded. ο The Commission should monitor the corrective actions for shortcomings in EU aid to producer groups in Poland. ο Do you want to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure on market support and direct payments in the field of agriculture can be found in Chapter 3 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
22 The area of expenditure covers the policy areas of "Rural development of rural areas': the rural development policy areas of the "9.2005', "Climate and environmental policy', "Rural development and fisheries' are: "Maritime and fisheries', "Maritime', "Health policy and consumer protection' are "Environmental policy' and "Management and protection of health and consumer' are policy areas of "Rural development' policy areas: the policy areas of "Rural development' and "Climate and environmental policy' are policy areas of "Environmental policy and fisheries' and the "Maritime and Fishing', "Maritime and Fishing' are policy areas of "Management and policy for the protection of health and consumer protection' and "Consumer protection' and "Consumer protection policy' of the name and "Health and environmental policy'.
88% of payments in this area come from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
Expenditure shall be managed shared with the Member States.
The EAFRD co-finances rural development expenditure under the relevant Member States' programmes.
Expenditure includes area measures (e.g. agri-environment payments and compensation to farmers in areas with natural handicaps) and non-area measures (e.g. modernisation of farms and service facilities for the economy and the rural population).
The estimated error rate is 6,7% (2012: 7,9%) The control systems examined: The control systems examined: Depending on the circumstances, most errors were due to non-compliance with eligibility criteria, in particular the following criteria: agri-environmental commitments (see example), specific requirements for investment projects and public procurement rules.
Example: non-compliance with agri-environment obligations The farmer in Sardinia (Italy) received compensation for non-use of environmentally harmful plant protection products for artichoke cultivation.
During the on-the-spot check, the Court found that the beneficiary had applied such plant protection products 12 times during the period considered.
Consequently, the aid payment could not be recognised.
Similar cases of non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments have also been detected in the Piemonte region (Italy) and Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland and Romania.
For more information on the areas of revenue and expenditure, 23 In the case of a significant number of errors, the Member States' authorities had sufficient information to detect and correct errors before submitting a request for reimbursement to the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors prior to the Commission's notification of expenditure, the estimated error rate in this respect would have been 2.0%.
The Court's analysis of rural development control systems concluded that the EU weaknesses in the checks on eligibility conditions, such as the lack of eligibility or the risk of double financing of VAT, in seven of the eight Member States audited, Italy, Latvia, Malta, Romania and Slovenia; the EU inadequate assessment of the eligibility of costs (in all four Member States audited, Italy, Poland and Romania); the EU insufficient assessment of costs (in all four Member States audited, Italy, Poland, Italy, Poland, Italy, Italy and Romania); the EU insufficient assessment of the eligibility of costs (in all four Member States audited, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy and Malta); the EU insufficient assessment of costs (in all four Member States audited, Italy and Malta), in line with cross compliance obligations, beneficiaries must meet specific conditions such as environmental and social standards in order to qualify for aid; the EU's shortcomings in compliance checks (in all Member States audited, Italy, Poland and Poland, for example).
For example, insufficient control by a Member State of public procurement rules In Latvia, the paying agency was the beneficiary of EAFRD assistance of EUR 2 million to finance assistance under the IT system that is outsourced under public procurement rules.
The Court found that, in the case of the procurement of information systems and subsequent collection of data, there were numerous serious errors.
For example, the paying agency, instead of the open or restricted procedure or the open procedure provided for in the legislation in the negotiations.
Due to the failure to comply with certain procedures, expenditure is not eligible for EU funding.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the following recommendations in the field of rural development: ο Member States should improve the implementation of their existing administrative controls by using all relevant information available to the paying agencies.
The Member States should ensure that action plans to counter the high estimate of the trade and trade index in rural development cover all regions and take into account all activities in particular investment activities, in particular and take account of the Commission's and Court's audit arrangements. Would you like to learn more? The Member States should ensure that action plans to counter the high estimate of trade and trade in rural development cover all the regions and take into account all the activities in particular, in particular, and take into account the Commission's and Court's audit arrangements.
Full information on the Court's audit of EU rural development expenditure, the environment, fisheries and health can be found in Chapter 4 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More information on revenue and expenditure on regional policy, transport and energy on the review 24 This audit concerned regional policy (including 96% of payments in this expenditure area), mainly financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF).
Regional policy aims to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the European Union by reducing disparities in development between regions.
Expenditure on actions in the field of regional policy shall be covered by the management shared by the Commission and the Member States in the framework of the co-financing of projects under approved expenditure programmes.
The remaining 4% of expenditure audited are transport and energy policy areas.
Transport and energy policy aims to provide European citizens and businesses with safe, sustainable and competitive transport and energy systems and services.
The Commission shall manage these expenditure directly.
Yes Estimated error rate: 6,9% (2012: 6,8%) Estimated control systems: conditionally effectively, the Court found serious errors in the field of public procurement, which account for 39% of the error rate estimated by the Court.
It is estimated that the total value of 122 that has been examined is EUR 4.2 billion.
Example: Unsubstantiated contracts for additional works at a passenger terminal at an airport in Germany were awarded for the benefit of the original contractor.
These additional work was necessary because of the harassment, planning and implementation of the project, and not because of unpredictable circumstances.
In such cases, the contract could not be awarded by hand, and therefore the contract for additional works had to be announced.
Similar cases in which an unjustified award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award or an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of an award of a contract or an award of an award of an award of an award of a contract of a contract of a contract or contract in a contract of a contract of an contract of a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract or of a contract or contract of a contract or of a contract with a contract in which the contract was awarded in a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract with a contract or of a contract or of a contract or of a contract which the contract of a contract of a contract or of a contract or a contract with a contract of a contract in a contract with a contract with a contract with a contract or of a contract of a contract of a contract with a contract or of a contract or of an contract of a contract of a contract with a contract of contract or of a contract or of contract of a contract of an contract of a contract with a contract of a contract of a contract with an contract of a contract or of a contract of a contract or of a contract of contract of a contract of a contract of a contract or of a contract of a contract or of a contract of a contract of a contract or of a contract of a contract of contract with a contract with a contract or of a contract with a contract or of a contract or of a contract or of a contract of a contract with a contract with a contract with which of a contract or of a contract or of a contract with an contract with a contract or of a contract of a contract of a contract or of an contract with an contract of a contract with a contract with a contract of a contract of a contract or of a contract or of a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract with a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract of an contract of a contract of a contract of a contract of a contract with a contract of a contract with a contract of a contract of a contract or of a contract of a contract or of contract of contract of a contract of an contract or of a contract of a contract or of contract or of a contract or of which the contract or of a contract of a
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 25 The Court's auditors also check whether EU State aid rules are being complied with.
Illegal State aid confers an unjustified advantage on the beneficiaries and thus affects the internal market.
The State aid errors represented 17% of the estimated error rate in this area (see example).
For example, State aid for a cost-effective project for small or medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Slovenia was granted for research and development in the automotive industry.
However, SMEs were wholly owned by large enterprises and carried out research activities solely on their behalf.
As large enterprises are subject to stricter public funding rules, the company was not entitled to finance all the funding.
Similar cases have been reported in Bulgaria and Hungary.
In the event of a significant number of errors, the Member States' authorities had sufficient information to detect and correct errors before submitting their application to the Commission.
If this information were used to correct errors before informing the Commission of expenditure, the estimated error rate in this area would be 3,9%.
The Court's auditors also found that the amounts of payments to final beneficiaries continued to exist for the financial instruments in 2013.
These funds shall support enterprises or urban development projects through capital investments, loans or guarantees.
The funds will be made available after the creation of the legal structure and will then be used to support projects.
A total of some EUR 12.6 billion of financial instruments were created in the 25 Member States.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο The Commission should request the Member States to carry out an in-depth assessment of the reverse problem in the management declarations, in particular as regards the effectiveness of the basic checks carried out by the managing authority and the certifying authority in the 2007-2013 programming period. ο The Commission should, in accordance with the Financial Regulation, carry out an in-depth assessment of primary checks carried out by the Member States' authorities. ο The Commission should examine the reasons for irregularities in EU State aid rules. ο The Commission should reduce persistent delays in the payment of EU funds from EU funds through financial instruments.
Full information on the audit of EU expenditure in the field of regional policy, transport and energy by the Court can be found in Chapter 5 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More information on income and expenditure Employment and social affairs EUR 16.2 billion As part of our review 26, the audit focused on employment expenditure and social expenditure, which is part of the EU's cohesion policy.
The main objective of expenditure in this area is to fight unemployment, to develop human resources and to promote labour market integration.
Employment and social policies are mainly implemented through the European Social Fund (ESF): 98% of payments made in 2013 in this area of expenditure have been made by the Fund.
The ESF will support investment in human capital in the form of training and other employment activities.
At a private school in Portugal, a full salary of the school principal was paid to the EU project, although the school had other tasks to do.
Moreover, the ceiling for the co-financing of wages is not taken into account.
Similar findings were found for projects carried out in Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
In the event of a significant number of errors, the authorities of the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct errors before submitting a request to the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before informing the Commission of expenditure, the estimated error rate in this respect would have been 1.8%.
Closer examination of revenue and expenditure areas 27 On the recommendation of the Court and in order to reduce the likelihood of errors and administrative burdens on project promoters, the use of lump sums and lump sums was extended in 2009 instead of reimbursement of actual costs.
In 2013, the Court did not detect any quantifiable errors related to the application of lump sums and lump sums.
This means that projects whose costs are reported using such payment options are less defective.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο Commission should urge Member States to strengthen controls on public procurement rules, non-project-related costs or projects that do not have added value to the EU. ο Commission should ensure that Member States address the problem where personnel costs for EU projects are to be paid at a higher rate than for projects funded by national funds. ο Commission should ensure that Member States take account of all the simplification possibilities provided for in the Regulations on the European Structural and Investment Funds 2014-2020. ο Do you want to know more? ο The Commission should ensure that Member States take account of all simplification possibilities provided for in the Regulations on the European Structural and Investment Funds 2014-2020.
For full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure in the field of employment and social affairs, see Chapter 6 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
28 These expenditure includes expenditure on external relations, development and humanitarian aid, and on actions for candidate and candidate countries.
Development projects are spread across more than 150 countries around the world, and their size and experience show significant differences in the way they are implemented.
The financing of projects from EU funds shall be subject to compliance with the conditions set out in the specific financing agreements and to compliance with other rules such as tendering procedures and public procurement procedures.
Expenditure shall be managed directly by the Commission's Directorate-General by the Commission's central services in Brussels or by the EU Delegations in the beneficiary countries or jointly with international organisations.
Yes Estimated error rate: 2.6 % (2012): 3,3%) Inspection schemes examined: Where most errors concerned ineligible expenditure incurred at the level of final beneficiaries, such as expenditure incurred outside the eligibility period, the inclusion of ineligible expenditure in project expenditure (e.g. VAT, unjustified staff costs or general costs) and expenditure not justified by the relevant evidence.
The Commission approved pre-accession expenditure for a total amount of EUR 150 million, although it did not approve it on the basis of evidence that the expenditure had been incurred and qualified.
The amounts validated were based on estimates of own amounts exceeding the costs incurred, repaid and accepted, supported by evidence.
Following the Court's detection of this systematic error, the Commission corrected the relevant operations in the accounts.
Example: Unpaid expenditure The Commission has signed an agreement on EUR 9.5 million with the UN Social Development Programme in Moldova.
In 2013, the Commission adopted cost recovery agreements worth EUR 1,8 million which have not yet been covered.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 29 The Commission's Directorate-General for EuropeAid manages the majority of EU expenditure related to sustainable development activities.
EuropeAid systems examined are assessed as partially effective.
In May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address major shortcomings.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο The Commission should ensure that the staff instructions reflect that the final management of expenditure is based solely on actual expenditure and not on its own estimates.
The Commission has already agreed to make an appropriate change to the final implementation of the expenditure. Do you want to know more about it?
For full information on the audit of EU expenditure in the field of external relations, external assistance and enlargement carried out by the Court, see Chapter 7 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
30 The main component of this area of expenditure is research and innovation projects, which in 2013 accounted for EUR 7.7 billion of payments.
Other internal policies concern policies, including education and culture, security, migration and measures to address the effects of the financial crisis.
Most expenditure is directly managed by the Commission.
Yes Estimated error rate: 4.6 % (2012): 3.9%) Audit systems examined: Effective Most payments in this expenditure area involve reimbursement of costs incurred by beneficiaries in project cost statements.
Errors arise if the fillets report ineligible costs which are not detected by the control systems before reimbursement by the Commission.
35% of the estimated error rate is due to incorrect or ineligible staff costs.
For example, for projects, staff costs, rather than actual staff costs, as well as working time, are not expected to be used as part of the project.
In addition to non-compliance with expenditure rules, reimbursement of ineligible costs also hinders the effective implementation of policy objectives and reduces the added value of EU funding (see example).
Example: Ineligible expenditure reduces the EU's EU added value by providing support to ensure effective and effective controls at the EU's external borders.
The Court examined the project in Spain by purchasing four helicopters, 75% of which were intended to be used for the surveillance and control of external borders.
However, the Court found that this objective constituted only 25% of the helicopter's working hours.
Therefore, the EU should have paid only 25%, not 75%, of the costs actually taken over by helicopters.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 31 Under the audit expenditure control system, the Commission monitors progress reports and statement of expenditure on funded projects before the payment is made.
The Court notes that the Commission does not always apply the procedure in a uniform way, which could jeopardise the effectiveness of the programmes and increase the administrative burden on beneficiaries.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο The Commission should give current, consistent and clear guidance to the beneficiaries and authorities in the Member States on eligibility and control rules for new research programmes for the period 2014-2020 and other internal policies. ο The Commission should focus its risk control activities on the focus of controls on high risk beneficiaries (e.g. for less qualified beneficiaries receiving EU support) and reduce the costs of controls on less risk beneficiaries.
You want to know more?
Full information on the audit of EU research expenditure and other internal policies by the Court can be found in Chapter 8 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More information on revenue and expenditure areas 32 Administrative and related expenditure EUR 10.6 billion As part of our audit, administrative and related expenditure covers expenditure of EU institutions and other EU bodies.
These include the Commission, Parliament, the European External Action Service (EEAS), the European Council and the Council of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the Data Protection Supervisor.
Staff expenditure (staff, allowances and pensions) accounts for 60% of the expenditure area and the remainder of expenditure on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology.
The results of the audits carried out by the Court in the agencies and other decentralised agencies of the European Union will be discussed in the special annual reports from which they will be published, including a summary.
Not Estimated error rate: 1,0% (2012): 0,0%) Tested control systems: Effective Test of most control systems showed no serious deficiencies.
However, the Court notes that payments of salaries and allowances made by the Commission and the EEAS are often the same as payments made by EU delegations (subject to the EEAS) show some shortcomings.
Our recommendations The Court recommends: The Commission and the EEAS should take further action to ensure that the parts of the staff files affected by the payment of salaries and allowances are up to date. The EEAS should support and support EU delegations in the procurement procedures.
For full information on the audit of administrative expenditure and related expenditure by the Court, see Chapter 9 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More information on revenue and expenditure European Development Fund (EDF) €2.6 billion Under the EDF, the European Union is spending on development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and with overseas countries and regions (OCTs).
In addition, they aim to promote sustainable development and the integration of ACP and OCT countries into the world economy.
The EDFs are financed by Member States which are managed by the European Commission outside the general budget of the EU and are subject to the internal financial rules which are managed by the European Commission.
The environment in which external assistance financed by the EFF is implemented is at large at risk, in particular as the activity is largely distributed geographically and the partner countries do not have sufficient institutional and administrative capacity.
Our findings Reliability of EDF accounts: the EDF's 2013 annual accounts represent a significant error in the assets and condition of the EDF, the results of its operations, cash flows and changes in net assets in overall terms.
Not audited control systems: Are effective EDF commitments largely linked to error?
Thus estimated error rate: 3,4% (2012: 3,0%) Failure to comply with public procurement rules resulted in around half of the estimated error rate (see example).
Another important source of error is the lack of evidence to support expenditure.
For example, the Court examined the Court's tender for the IT equipment for the Business Information Centre, which was financed by the scheme for aid to micro-enterprises and small enterprises, for which the beneficiary did not comply with the rules for the award of contracts.
The examination shows that the contract was not awarded to the tenderer with the lowest bid, although the lowest price was the award criterion.
This error was not detected by the controller who carried out the financial control of the programme in accordance with the relevant framework agreement with the Commission.
Further information on revenue and expenditure areas of the 34th EDF shall also be provided for budget support for which payments are paid directly to the budget of the developing country, provided that certain conditions are met.
The Court found errors in the operations related to budget support where the incorrect assessment of the conditions was carried out and incorrect conversion rates were applied in order to convert payments into local currency.
The European Commission's Directorate-General for Cooperation EuropeAid manages not only the majority of the expenditure from the EU budget relating to external assistance but also almost all expenditure from the European Development Fund (EDF).
EuropeAid's systems are considered to be partially effective.
However, in May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address the main shortcomings identified.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the Commission: ο Commission should recover interest on pre-financing. ο Commission should review the quantitative benefits of the checks carried out. ο Commission should report on the progress made on the implementation of the action plan to address weaknesses in the control system.
Complete information on the Court's audit of the European Development Fund can be found in the annual report on the activities of the eighth, ninth and tenth European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2013.
General information 35 The audit approach at a glance The Court's audit opinions in the framework of the Statement of Assurance are based on objective evidence obtained in particular as a result of audits carried out in accordance with international control rules.
The EU budget is complex.
The Commission's Directors-General shall conduct 100 daily accounts each year on the basis of information from a variety of sources (including from the Member States).
In view of the fact that the assessment of the accounting system in order to determine whether it is consistent and reliable, and to the extent that the information on compliance with the principle of proportionality is properly collected and correctly presented. ο Assessment of the accounting system in order to determine whether it is consistent and reliable. ο Direct control of the sample of accounting records in order to determine whether information on the underlying information is actually available and correct. ο Assessment of the financial statements in order to determine whether it is correct. ο Audit of financial statements in order to determine whether they are correct. General information 36 Correctness of transactions is checked during the EU financial statements, as well as the payment transactions entered in the EU accounts, in order to determine whether they are correctly collected and are fully collected, whether they are consistent with the relevant rules. ο Audit of financial statements in order to determine whether they are actually available and correct, whether they are actually correct;. ο Audit of financial statements on the basis of the Court's audits, whether they are available and fully collected, whether they are consistent; ο Control of the financial statements should also be consistent in order; it should also be to that the proportionality. is also.
1 Payments included as expenditure are interim payments, final payments and pre-financing payments.
Implementation of the EU budget means making millions of payments to beneficiaries in the EU and around the world.
Most of these expenditures are managed by Member States.
In order to obtain the necessary evidence, the Court carries out direct checks on revenue and expenditure - it carries out payments and evaluates the systems by which payments are cleared and audited.
For more information on the verification process for drawing up the Statement of Assurance, see point 1.1 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
General information 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is an independent audit body of the European Union (EU) established in Luxembourg.
There are around 900 workers from all EU countries, which are made up of controllers and horizontal service workers.
Since its creation in 1977, the Committee has been raising awareness of and improving the EU's financial management.
The Court's audit reports and opinions are an important part of the EU's responsibility chain.
Our results will be used to bring to account those responsible for managing the EU budget, in particular in the context of the discharge procedure.
These are mainly the Commission, but they also apply to other EU institutions, bodies and agencies.
In the case of shared management, Member States also play an important role.
Our main task is to audit accounting and to control compliance, mainly with regard to the statement of assurance; the audit of accounting issues that are chosen in a way that makes our work most effective; the opinion on the provisions on financial management and other important issues.
We are trying to use our resources to strike a balance between the different fields of activity to achieve robust results and the appropriate range of different areas of the EU budget.
General information 38 Our results We present the following results: annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund; annual audit reports on the audit report on the audit report; annual reports on the statement of assurance and the results which are published each year in November; annual reports on the audit of individual EU agencies and other bodies; annual reports on the audit in 2014, specific reports on selected audit topics which are published during the year; these reports are published mainly during the year; reports in 2014 will be published around 25 reports; opinions on the activities of the European Parliament and the Council in the process of adopting EU legal acts having a significant impact on financial management; reports in 2014 should contain six opinions; opinions on the EU budget in selected policy areas in which these studies will be carried out in 2014; opinions on the annual reports of the activities; annual reports on the activities in which the report will be published; information and information on our activities; annual reports on the budget; report in 2014 will be published in 2014 and studies on the activities of the specific EU policies in which it will be taken into account; analyses on the main challenges and other issues.
Our actions contribute to raising awareness of financial management in the EU and to increasing transparency in financial management, ensuring the reliability of financial management and recommending further improvements.
This is in the interests of the citizens of the European Union.
Information on the audits carried out by the Court by the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union can be obtained from the relevant annual reports for the financial year 2013, available on the Court's website.
The European Court of Auditors is an independent external audit body of the EU - the guardian of EU finances In its annual reports on the EU budget and the European Development Funds, the Court gives an opinion (confidence certificate) on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This summary provides the main findings and conclusions.
The full text of the reports is available on the Court's website and published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) established in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
The main task of the Agency shall be to assist national regulatory authorities in carrying out regulatory tasks in the Member States at Union level and in coordinating the activities of those authorities as necessary.
Within the framework of the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation) 2, the Agency and the national regulatory authorities are given additional tasks to monitor the European wholesale energy market3.
Therefore, for the 2011 financial year, the period from 8 March 2011 to 31 December 2011 was examined.
APPLICATION FOR A FAITH DECLARATION 3.The control procedure shall include procedures for analytical control, direct control of operations and evaluation of key controls of the Agency's supervisory and control systems.
1 2 3 OJ L 1, 3.1.2002, p. 1.
OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
For information, the Annex summarises the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court has examined the annual accounts4 of the Agency, consisting of the "annual accounts"5 and "budget implementation reports"6 for the financial year ending on 31 December 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
Responsibility of the Management Board 5. As part of the function of the Head of the Management of the Director-General, the Director-General of the Director-General of the Management Board of the budget in terms of revenue and expenditure, in accordance with the Agency's financial rules, accountability and within the limits of the appropriations allocated7.
The Director shall be responsible for the establishment of the 8th organisational structure and internal management and control systems and procedures necessary for the preparation of the financial statements9, which shall be free of material, deliberate or unintended false presentations 4 5 6 7 8 9 The annual report shall be added to the accounts for the budgetary and financial management of the financial year concerned, containing additional information on budgetary and financial management.
The financial statements shall include a balance sheet and an overview of the economic performance, a cash flow table, a table of changes in net assets and a summary of the underlying accounting principles and other explanations.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
The controller's responsibility is responsible for certifying the reliability of the Agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions on the basis of the audit carried out by the European Parliament and the Council10.
7.Reports on compliance with international auditing standards and compliance requirements within IFAC and with international standards for the highest INTOSAI control bodies.
In accordance with these standards, the Court is required to plan and carry out audits in such a way as to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material misrepresentations and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
8.The performance of the audit activities shall include the conduct of audits in order to obtain evidence of the value and other information contained in the financial statements as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The selection of controls shall depend on the assessment of the controller, including the risk assessment of material, intentional or unintended, incorrect presentations at the time of closure, and, where necessary, material, intentional or unintended infringements of Union rules in relation to the underlying transactions.
In assessing this risk, the auditor shall take into account the internal control system relevant for the design and summary of the financial statements and the 5 supervisory and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions to plan the control activities relevant to the circumstances.
The verification shall include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting rules applied and the accounting of the calculated accounting estimates and an assessment of the overall presentation of the accounts.
9.The financial assistance shall ensure that the evidence obtained is sufficient and adequate to provide the basis for the following opinions.
The Court's opinion on the reliability of the accounts10 Following the Court's assessment of the Agency's accounts11 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2011, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows at the end of the financial year, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer12.
11 12 The final accounts were drawn up on 19 June 2012 and received by the Court on 2 July 2012.
The final accounts, consolidated with the Commission's annual accounts, shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 15 November of the following year.
The financial statements are available at: http://eca.europa.eu or http://ww.acer.europa.eu/.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer shall be based on the International Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Accounting Federation (IFAC) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).
In addition, the payment rate was low compared to the 41% commitments under Title II and Title III.
The high level of unused budget and the carry-overs made and the low level of payments indicate shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the budget and the infringement of the principle of annuality.
Other comments 14. Transparency of recruitment procedures needs to be improved.
For example, employment notices do not specify the maximum number of candidates to be included in the reserve list, nor do they specify any appeal requests.
7 written and oral examinations and their weight shall not be prepared before processing applications.
15.In 2011, the Agency paid a diet of EUR 10 839 to seconded experts who were nationals of the country in which the Agency is established.
This payment shall be incompatible with the provisions laid down by the Management Board of the Agency concerning the secondment of national experts which provide that only temporary staff who are not nationals of the Member State in which they are employed are entitled to daily allowances.
This report was adopted by the House IV, chaired by Mr Louis GALEA, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 5 September 2012.
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
8 Annex Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) The scope of the Union's competence under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) The Agency's competence (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) The European Parliament and of the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt measures with a view to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States for the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
The Union's energy policy shall have the following objectives: (a) ensuring the functioning of the energy market; (b) ensuring energy security in the Union; (c) promoting energy efficiency and energy savings and the development of new and renewable energy sources; (d) promoting interconnection between energy networks; and
The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall adopt the measures necessary to achieve those objectives.
Those measures shall be adopted after consulting the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
The Agency's objective is to assist national regulatory authorities in carrying out regulatory tasks in the Member States at Union level and in coordinating their activities as necessary.
Tasks - complementing and coordinating the work of national regulatory authorities - contributing to the development of European network rules - in certain circumstances to take binding individual decisions on the conditions of access and operational security of cross-border infrastructure, - advising the European institutions on energy issues, - monitoring the development of energy markets and reporting in this respect, - preparing a proposal to the European Commission on the annual amount of compensation for cross-border infrastructure under the ITC mechanism, - cooperating with national regulatory authorities, ESMA, the competent financial authorities of the Member States and, where appropriate, national competition authorities for monitoring energy markets in the wholesale market, - assessing the functioning and transparency of the various categories of market and trade market, - making recommendations to the Commission on market rules, trade registers, trade agreements, standards and procedures to improve the integrity of the market and the functioning of the internal market.
Composition of the Management Board: The Management Board shall consist of two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
Each member has an alternate.
Tasks: The Management Board shall adopt the Agency's annual work programme, adopt its budget and monitor its implementation.
The Board of Regulators will take the position of Director after obtaining a positive opinion of the Board of Regulators on the basis of ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
Composition of the Board of Regulators: The Board of Regulators shall consist of high-level representatives of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a representative of the Commission who does not have the right to vote.
Each member shall have an alternate nominated by the national regulatory authority of each Member State.
Tasks: - The Board of Regulators shall submit opinions to the Director on the opinions, recommendations and decisions to be adopted and adopted. -. - - The Board of Regulators shall direct the Director in the course of the performance of its duties. - -. - The Board of Regulators shall present an opinion to the Director on the candidate to be appointed Director and approve the Agency's work programme.
External audit of the Court of Auditors.
Parliament's discharge authority on a recommendation from the Council.
"PrivatP " "Privatt " under "PynicnrivatP" in 2015; 2015 - in 2015; 2015; 2015 - in 2015 - in 2015; 2015 - in 2015 - in 2015; 2015 - in 2015; 2015 - in 2015 - in operational activities: 28; - administrative and support actions: 11 - 5 framework guidelines for connection; framework for capacity management and congestion management and congestion management; including gas: framework guidelines for capacity allocation mechanisms for the European gas transmission system operator (ENTSO) and framework guidelines for the balance between transmission network congestion; organisation of public consultation in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009, including workshops; - Opinion on the Statutes, the list of members and the internal rules of the European interconnection between transmission system operator (ENTSO) and the European interconnection between transmission system operator (ENTSO of gas); - on the opinion on the 10-year network development plan in ENT; the adoption of an opinion on the Union-wide 2015 opinion on the adoption of an opinion on the "PrivatP" under "Pynet" in 2015; 2015; 2015; 2015 - in the "PrivatPrivatPrivatPrivatP" in 2015; 2015; 2015 - the framework of the "PrivatPrivatPrivatPrivatPrivat Py in 2015; in 2015; 2015; in 2015; in in 2015 - in 2015;; in 2015 - in 2015 - in the framework for: administrative actions;; in 2015 - in 2015 - in 2015 - in 2015; - in the framework: on the framework of the framework of the framework of 11 - in the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the 2015; in the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the "Py on administrative measures of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the guidelines of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the framework of the "Pynet of the framework of the year of the year in the year of the framework of the framework of the framework of the year; 2015; 2015; 2015; 2015 of the framework of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the
Source: Agency data. ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
ACER - ACER Energy Regulators Cooperation Agency - Agence de coopération des régulateurs de l'énergie AGENCIES' RESPONSE 13.In the first year of ACER's activity, ACER had to hire most of its employees, which had to do with problems, which led to job vacancies being late hires.
This also reflected the envisaged public procurement needs and led to a focus on the procurement procedures at the end of the year and therefore substantial transfers were needed to meet the legal and budgetary commitments made.
As the majority of the posts were planted at the beginning of 2012, ACER was in a much better position to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it and to complete its budget.
14. ACER takes note of the powers of the Court's observations and has already taken corrective action.
15. ACER takes note of the right of provisional determination and has already suspended the payment of daily allowances to Slovenian seconded national experts.
INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency," including "ACER") established in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
In the framework of the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation)2, additional tasks have been delegated to the Agency and the national regulatory authorities to monitor the European wholesale energy market3.
STATEMENT OF CONFIDENTIALITY 2.The control procedure shall include the control procedures, the direct control of operations and the evaluation of the Agency's key supervisory and control systems.
Since the Commission has decided, pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), to carry out an inspection pursuant to Article 2 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Commission has decided to carry out: 1 2 3 (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), (ii) and (iii) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), (iii), (iii), (iv) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), (iv) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), (iv) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), (iv) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), (iv) and (iv) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and (iii) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and (iv) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), (iv) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
This Directive entrusts the Agency with an important role in monitoring wholesale energy markets in Europe.
For information purposes, Annex II gives a summary of the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
The management responsibility4 The management responsibility of the Agency's financial statements includes the preparation, establishment and maintenance of the internal control system, as is necessary, to prepare and adequately present annual reports which are not relevant, intended or unintended, are not the same as incorrect presentations, selection and application of the relevant accounting rules, on the basis of accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer7 and 4 5 6 7 The financial statements shall include the balance sheet and economic performance balance sheet, the cash flow table, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the main accounting methods and other explanations.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer shall be based on the International Public Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Accounting Federation (IFAC) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts after presentation by the Agency's accounting officer on the basis of all the information available and on the basis of the attached accounts, which shall state, inter alia, that the Agency's annual accounts have the necessary guarantees that the Agency's annual accounts present the Agency's true and fairest accounts on the basis of all the information available and that they have the necessary guarantees that the Agency's financial situation is the most important presentation of the true and fair view of the Agency's financial situation. (b) Responsibility for the management of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for compliance with the principle of sound financial management requires the establishment, implementation and maintenance of an effective and effective internal control system, including adequate supervision and measures to prevent irregularities and fraud and, where appropriate, legal action to recover funds unduly paid or incorrectly used.
Responsibility of the controller 5. Responsibility of the statement of assurance of the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In accordance with these standards, the Court is required to plan and conduct audits in such a way as to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
The choice of control activities is the responsibility of the examiner.
When assessing these risks, the controller shall take into account all internal controls which are relevant for the preparation and preparation of financial statements and of the supervisory and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and shall plan to take appropriate control action in appropriate circumstances.
Opinion on the audit of the reliability of the accounts 8. Opinion on the audit of the Agency's annual accounts on 31 December 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ending that date, in accordance with the financial and accounting provisions of ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
6 The accounting principles adopted by the Commission in all material respects are relevant in all material respects.
10. The following comments do not call into question the Court's view on the audit.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 11.The Agency has transferred EUR 1.9 million or 56% of the total amount of the appropriations provided for in Title II (the Agency's buildings and associated costs) in connection with the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
It is an operational activity, a multi-annual activity, which should be completed under Title III of the budget.
12. Furthermore, the Agency has transferred EUR 3.1 million or 91% of the total appropriations allocated in Title III, including the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
The exceptionally high transfer rate in Title III results mainly from an increase of EUR 3 million in the amending budget approved on 31 October 2013.
Other comments 13.At the end of the year, the Agency had EUR 5.5 million in cash, of which some EUR 3 million in cash from the late adopted ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 7 Amending budget (see paragraph 12).
However, the average cash in the year was significantly higher than in the case of operational needs.
CONVINCEMENT OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 14.Annex I provides an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations of previous years, which was adopted by the House IV chaired by Mr Milan Martin CVIKL, a member of the Court of Auditors, at a meeting in Luxembourg on 8 July 2014.
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 COMMENTS ON THE RETURN ON ADDITIVE RETURN AND THE YEAR ON THE COURT'S RETURNING AND ON THE COURT'S RETURNING The state of the corrective actions (completed/completed/present) in 2011. The large level of unused funding and the transfers made and the low level of payments indicate weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget and are in breach of the principle of annuality.
The transparency of recruitment procedures has to be improved in 2011.
Furthermore, questions concerning written and oral examinations and their weight were not developed prior to examination of applications.
Closed in 2012, the Agency grants a special allowance to the education allowance in addition to the education allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations for workers whose children attend primary or secondary education1.
In 2012, the special allowances amounted to around EUR 23 000.
They are not covered by the statutes and are therefore incompatible with the rules.
Completed ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 2 years Court's observation The state of the corrective action (completed/present/present/e.g.) 2012 the Agency's budgetary commitments of EUR 1,7 million under Title II (the Agency's buildings and related costs) of its budget (equivalent to 81% of its total commitments under Title II) to the following financial year.
Such transfers are mainly linked to the current implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
Since these implementing measures form part of the Agency's operational activities, they should be included in the budget in Title III.
Closed in 2012, the Agency made 20 budget transfers of around EUR 1 million in 2012.
At the end of 2012, the Agency had EUR 4.2 million of cash at the end of the year, including a budget surplus of EUR 1.6 million in 2011, which was in 2011. The Commission recovered this amount in January 2013.
In 2012, the recruitment procedures audited had weaknesses affecting the transparency and equal treatment of candidates: questions concerning oral and written examinations were not identified before the applications were examined.
The conditions for taking written and oral examinations and taking appropriate candidates into the list were not sufficiently precise and were not sufficiently precise to ensure the anonymity of candidates participating in the written examinations.
Article 3 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations provides for a double basic allowance of EUR 252,81, i.e. EUR 505,62.
ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 ANNEX II Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Lubljana) Competences of the Union under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Competences of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Competences and activities of the European Parliament and of the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt measures for the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States for the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
the incentive management structure and the common method for assessing the higher risk associated with investments in transmission and transmission infrastructure.
The composition of the Management Board The composition of the Management Board shall include two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
The tasks of the Management Board shall be adopted by the Agency's annual work programme and shall adopt its budget.
It shall ensure that the tasks of the Agency are carried out and that the tasks entrusted to it are carried out in accordance with the Agency's Regulation.
The Director shall be appointed by the Management Board after obtaining a positive opinion of the Board of Regulators on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the Commission.
Composition of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators of the Board of Regulators.
Each member shall have an alternate appointed by the national regulatory authority of each Member State.
The Board of Regulators shall provide the Director with opinions on the opinions, recommendations and decisions to be adopted. − The Board of Regulators shall direct the Director in the performance of its tasks. − The Board of Regulators shall provide the Management Board with an opinion on the candidate to be appointed as Director. − shall approve the Agency's work programme.
External audit of the European Court of Auditors.
Budget 2013 (2012) 11.9 (7.2) million euro. Human resources at 31 December 2013 (2012) Posts foreseen in the establishment plan: 49 (43), of which 49 (42) at 31 December.
Other information: 20 (14). Total: 69 (57). Other operational activities: 41 (34). Administrative actions: 28 (23). - Framework Guidelines (Gas: Framework Guidelines on the principles of harmonised transmission charges structure); Organisation of public consultations in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009, including workshops; - Network codes: (a) seven reasoned opinions on network codes (Network Codes for Long-term Capacity Allocation, Network Code for System, Network Code for Network Planning, Network Code for Frequency Management and Network Reserves, Network Network Code for Network for Connections; Gas: Network Code for Connections and Network Code for Interoperability and Exchange of Data); (b) Four Recommendations for Network Codes (all areas: Network Code for All Powers, Network Code for Network Allocation for Operational Planning); 2 Guidelines on Network Security Principles for 2013 (data for 2012) - Network Code for Products and Services in 2013).
Source: Annex made available by the Agency.
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ANSWERS AGENCY 11.
12. As the inspectors have already noted, the high transmission rate was due to delays in the implementation of REMIT.
This deferral was due to the approval of the necessary additional appropriations from DG ENER only in October 2013 and to the fact that the appropriations were transferred to the Agency at the beginning of November 2013.
However, the Agency has successfully completed all planned public procurement procedures in connection with the implementation of REMIT by December 2013 and the expenditure in this respect will be incurred in 2014.
13. The balance of the accounts at the end of the year covered EUR 3 million received at the end of the year as a result of the budgetary adjustment and the remaining amount was intended to cover all legal commitments, in particular commitments entered into at the end of 2013, in respect of REMIT.
The cash forecasting tool introduced in 2014 will allow for better money management in the future. ACER - DE
DE 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/17 Annual Report of the Agency for 2015 on cooperation between energy regulators, together with the Agency's reply (2016/C 449/02) INTRODUCTION 1 of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter "the Agency') (hereinafter "the Agency') established in Ljubljana by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The main task of the Agency is to support the national regulatory authorities, in particular regulatory authorities, in order to carry out regulatory tasks in the Member States at Union level and to coordinate, where necessary, the activities of regulatory authorities in those Member States.
In the framework of the Regulation on the integration and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation) (2) the Agency and the national regulatory authorities (national regulatory authorities) have been given additional tasks to monitor the European wholesale energy market.
2. The table presents the most important figures for the Agency (3).
Table Key figures for the Agency's budget (million euro) Staff at 31 December (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
In order to obtain additional information, the Court should be asked to provide additional information on the situation in which the Court should be asked for assistance in order to request additional information from the Court on the situation referred to in paragraph 1 and, where appropriate, to provide information on the situation referred to in paragraph 2.
In 2014, the Court examined the annual accounts of the Agency of the annual accounts of the budget (5) and the accounts of the Agency and of the annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year 2014 and the annual annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the annual financial accounts for the financial year 2014 and the annual annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and for the financial year 2014 for the financial year 2014 and the annual financial accounts of the Agency for the financial year 2014 for the financial year 2014 and the annual annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the annual financial year for the financial year 2014, for the year 2014 and for the financial year 2014, for the financial year 2014 and for the financial year 2014, for the year 2014 and for the
The Management Board shall be responsible for the preparation and proper presentation of the Agency's accounts and for the legality and regularity of the Agency's objectives (6): (1) OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. and..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 211, 1.4.2009, p. 1).
The Agency will play a significant role in monitoring energy markets in Europe.
(3) For more information on the Agency's competences and competences, see the Agency's website www.acer.europa.eu.
Articles 39 and 50 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013
C 449/18 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 DE (a) The responsibility managed by the Agency shall include the development, establishment and maintenance of the internal control system, as necessary, the preparation and preparation, in an adequate and comprehensive manner, of annual accounts which are free of material or unintentional presentation of the same or inadequate same financial statements, as well as the selection and application of the relevant accounting rules on the basis of the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer ((7), as well as the determination of the values recognised in the accounting accounts, which are acceptable in the various circumstances.
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts, after, on the basis of the information available, he has informed that the accounts contain, where appropriate, an adequate picture of the Agency's financial situation. (b) The responsibility of the management of justice, legal order and, where appropriate, the recovery of funds unduly paid or unduly used requires the development, establishment and maintenance of an effective and effective internal control system, including adequate supervision and measures to be taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and, where appropriate, the recovery of funds unduly paid or unlawfully paid.
The Court's responsibility is to present to the European Parliament and the Council, on the basis of its preparation, and (8) to clarify, to the extent necessary, the most consistent and lawful possible, and to the extent that it is lawful and in order with regard to the underlying objective.
In accordance with these standards, the Court is required to plan and implement the work plan and to ensure sufficient security as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material misconceptions, or whether they are sufficient to implement the relevant and correct execution of the underlying work. 7. • is based on the results of the work planning work to obtain evidence that the annual report contains values and other information, as well as that it is legal and to the order of the matter.
Article 208 (4) of the EU Financial Regulation [9].
8. The Court considers that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as a basis for clarifying that it is sufficient.
In accordance with the Court's assessment, the Agency's annual accounts at 31 December 2015 shall provide the Agency's annual accounts as at 31 December 2015 as well as the results of its forecasts and cash flows for the year ending that date, in accordance with its Financial Regulation and with all the basic accounting principles adopted by the Commission's accounting officer.
11.
(7) (8) (9) The following observations do not undermine the Court's view.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer shall be based on the International Public Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Accounting Federation (IFAC) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/19 BUDGET COMMENTS 12. The repudiate Agency transferred EUR 1.36 million and 59% of the appropriations entered in Title III (operational expenditure) respectively for the following financial year (2014: EUR 1.57 million and 62%).
These measures were essentially linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (€1.1 million), a multi-annual operational experience of integration and market transparency in the energy sector.
In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 0,79 million and 35% (in 2014: EUR 0,98 million and 41%) of the appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) for the following financial year.
The increase in the increase in earlier agreements 13 of the Annex shall include an overview of the corrective measures taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Muguruza, Mr Muguruza, Member of the Court of Auditors, at a meeting in Luxembourg on 13 September 2016.
F no F no Court of Auditors V partment Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA no C ydent
(2013: EUR 3,1 million, 91% respectively). (2013: EUR 3,1 million and 91%).
The investigation showed that the investigation showed that the investigation showed that the Union industry is in the Union interest in the Union industry in the investigation period that the Union industry is in the Union interest in the review investigation period in the review investigation period.
In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 0.98 million and EUR 41 % (in 2013 EUR 1.9 million and 56 %) of the appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. EUR 9 million and 41% (in 2013) of the appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) for the financial year.
In October 2013, the Agency received an additional EUR 3 million in the amending budget for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation for 2014.
However, the transposition Regulation will not enter into force until October 2015.
Part of the appropriations was used in 2014 to prepare the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
At the end of 2014, the Agency made two pre-financing payments of EUR 1.56 million....................................................services................................................services...in connection with the REMIT Regulation, which in the years 2015-2017.
While this allows the Agency to fund its REMIT capabilities, this approach is contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
The agreement between the Agency and the Government of Slovenia provides for the establishment of a European school in Slovenia, but has not yet been implemented more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
Directive 2008/14/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 April 2008 on the European Social Fund (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 1).
In accordance with Article 13 of the EU Financial Regulation, it may be transmitted only for the following financial year.
De 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/21 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 13.
Given that there is still uncertainty about the annual allocation of the Agency's budget, the fact that the lack of integrity is increasingly consistent with the inevitable nature of the REMIT project is difficult to reconcile with the inevitable nature of many years.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/25 Annual Report of the Agency for 2016 on cooperation in the field of energy regulation, together with the Agency's reply (2017/C 417/02) INTRODUCTION 1.The Agency for cooperation in the field of energy regulation (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The main task of the Agency shall be to assist national regulatory authorities in the implementation of regulatory tasks in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, in the coordination of the activities of those authorities.
Table Key figures for the Agency's budget (million euro) Human resources on 31 December (1) (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff, contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Source: ABI. Budget data published.
In 2015, 11,3 80 2016 15,9,3103.3 PR.3 OF THE THE OFF 4. We have a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts including the annual accounts[4) and the budget implementation report (5) f For the financial year ending on 31 December 2016 and (1) OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(3) For more information on the Agency's capabilities and capabilities, see the Agency's website www.acer.europa.eu.
(5) The budget implementation reports shall include an overview of revenue and expenditure which will include revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as revenue and expenditure estimates.
DE C 417/26 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 b) Tracking the legality and regularity of the documents underlying this financial statement pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's exact accounts for the year ending 31 December 2016 shall be submitted by 31 December 2016 to the Agency's accounts for the year ending 31 December 2016, the Agency's accounts for the year ending 31 December 2016, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2016, the Agency's accounts for the year 31 December 2016, the Agency's accounts for the year 31 December 2016, the Agency's accounts, the accounts for the year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2016, the financial accounts for the year 31 December 2016, the financial statements, the financial statements for the financial statements for the year 31 December 2016, the financial statements for the year 2016 financial year 31 December 2016, the financial statements for the financial year 31 December 2016, the financial year of the financial year of accounts, the year 31 December 2016, the financial year of the financial year of the year of the financial year of the financial year 31 December 2016 financial year of the financial statements, the year ending of the year 31 December 2016, the financial year 31 December 2016, financial year 31 December 2016, the financial year of the year of the financial statements of the financial year ending of the financial year of the financial year ending of the financial year of the financial year 31 December 2016, the year of the year ending of the year of the year of the year of the 31 December 2016, the year of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year of the year of the year of the financial year of the financial year, the year, the financial year of the financial year of the financial year of the year, the financial year ending of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year for the year of the year of the financial year of the financial year ending of the year of the year of the financial year, the financial year of the financial year of the year of the year of the year of the financial year of the year of the financial year ending of the year of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year ending of the year of the financial year of the financial year of the year
Proposals for Proposals for Proposals for a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision of a decision
Management responsibility and responsibility and h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
This liability shall include the design, design and maintenance of internal control structures which are necessary for the preparation and presentation of annual accounts which are free from material, accidental and accidental false presentations.
The Management Board of the Agency shall have the ultimate responsibility for the legality and legality of the underlying annual accounts.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/27 The European Union's responsibility for approving the annual accounts and underlying them 11. The aim is to obtain adequate security as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free of material irregularities and whether it is justified, correct and correct, as well as to the European Parliament and the Council and other irregularities in discharge, on the basis of our efforts, to provide, on the basis of them, an explanation on the correctness and regularity of the accounts and the correctness and orderly nature of the underlying assumptions.
Member States may consider that incorrect description and understanding may be intentional or unintentional and may be considered relevant if they are likely to affect economic decisions taken by users on the basis of this Financial Report or may be considered relevant.
12. The preparation shall include the execution of activities to obtain evidence to obtain the value and other information contained in the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the assumptions on which it is based. The selection of actions to obtain the value and information contained in the financial statements shall be based on the competent competence and, to that end, the assessment of risks, including risks, including risks, material or unintended, as well as material or unintended misconceptions in the financial statements, and in order to obtain material information in order to prevent or unintended or unintended.... or....
In assessing these risks, the Prefer shall take into account all environmental assessments relating to the preparation and presentation of the financial statements and the appropriateness and regularity of its underlying internal control, so as to plan the evaluation activities underlying its activities, but not to give an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
The report should also assess the adequacy of the accounting rules applied, the accounting principles of the management's accounting, as well as the overall assessment of the financial statements.
13. With regard to revenue, where appropriate, we review the appropriations received by the Agency from the Commission and assess the procedures for the collection of funds and other revenue.
14. In terms of expenditure, we examine whether expenditure has been incurred, recorded and accepted.
Advances shall be checked after the beneficiary has certified their correct use, and the Agency shall accept the evidence, the clearing of the advance and in the same year, or within the same period of time.
15. Article 208 (4) of the EU Financial Regulation (6)....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
16. The following observations do not call into question the Court's decision.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 17. In its May 2016 work report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the urgent need to clarify the roles and competences and to analyse the workload of the contracting entity in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures.
In addition, IAS considered that planning and monitoring of public procurement should be significantly improved.
The Agency and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET 18 The Agency has transferred EUR 4.9 million and 86% of the appropriations entered in Title III (operational expenditure) respectively for the following financial year (EUR 1,4 million and 59% for 2015 respectively).
As in previous years, following the implementation of the REMIT Regulation, these funds were largely related to the integration and transparency of the energy market in 2016 to EUR 4.7 million (in 2015: EUR 1.1 million).
In Title II (administrative expenditure), the Agency spent EUR 1 million and 38% of the appropriations in the following financial year (EUR 0,8 million and 35% of the appropriations respectively in 2015).
19. The increase in funds is extremely worrying and contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
The return on investment is directly linked to the completion and signing of the procurement and procurement procedures at the end of the year, leading to the transfer of supplies and/or payments to the following year, leading to the transfer of supplies and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of 299 Verts of November and December (EUR 5 976 122,47 and 40% of the total Vertr and Vertr In 2016) were signed.
The Agency may take measures to obtain separate measures to better take account of the multi-annual nature of the experience and the unavoidable discrepancies between contracts, supplies and payments.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Muguruza, Mr Muguruza, Member of the Court of Auditors, at a meeting in Luxembourg on 12 September 2017.
6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/29 EN The Court's observations Gem's derogations from the location agreement between the Agency and the Government of Slovenia are intended to establish a European school in Slovenia, but this is still not the case within four years of the conclusion of the agreement.
The Agency has committed EUR 1,36 million, i.e. 59% of the appropriations entered in Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year (EUR 1,57 million and 62% respectively in 2014).
These measures were essentially linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (€1.1 million), the complexity of the multi-annual operational complexity of the integration and transparency of the wholesale energy market.
The Agency transferred EUR 0.79 million and 35% (EUR 0.98 million and 41% respectively in 2014) of the appropriations entered in Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
DE C 417/30 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 of the AGENCY's replies 18. The Agency has successfully implemented measures in accordance with IAS.
Of the six recommendations, two very important and three very important recommendations have already been completed.
The Agency intends to withdraw the last recommendation by October 2017.
19. The Agency considers that the funds that are transferred are high due to the multi-annual investments linked to the REMIT Regulation and are difficult to reconcile with the principle of budgetary fairness.
The high revenue results from the schedule of the annual contractual cycle established in 2013, when, at the end of the year, the Agency received additional budgetary appropriations for the REMIT project.
However, it should be stressed that the commitment for the financial year 2016 has been fulfilled in 100% in the framework of the F chapter for REMIT expenditure.
The Agency will examine the implementation of the separate budget appropriations for Title III.
20. The Agency considers that the introduction of separate appropriations for Title III better reflects the multiplicity of certain of its tasks, especially in the REMIT area, provided that the funds made available to the Agency are stable and predictable.
More information on the financial information of the European Training Foundation (ESB-Turin), together with the Foundation's replies, together with Centre 1's replies on the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies on the Agency's 27 accounts of the Office for Harmonisation of the Internal Market (OHIM-Alicante) (OHIM), together with the Office's 32 replies on the accounts of the European Training Foundation (ESB-Turin), together with the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's 27 replies on the accounts of the Office for Harmonisation of the Internal Market (OHIM-Alicante), together with the Office's replies of the European Agency for Harmonisation 32 reports on the accounts of the European Training Foundation (ESB-Tura), the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (ESB-Turin) and the European Agency's replies (A)
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (OJ L 39, 13.2.1975, p. 1), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (OJ L 39, 13.2.1975, p. 1), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93.
2. The Court examined the accounts of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ending 31 December 1995.
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase of office equipment and technical equipment intended for the maintenance and maintenance of office equipment, office and technical, technical and technical equipment, purchase, purchase, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, purchase, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and maintenance, purchase, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, etc., maintenance, maintenance and maintenance, etc.
15), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
In accordance with Articles 65, 61 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93, he is also responsible for drawing up and drawing up financial statements in accordance with financial rules.
The Court of Auditors is required to monitor these accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The European Council of 29 October 1993 decided to move the seat of Cedefop from Berlin to Thessaloniki.
In order to facilitate this removal, certain changes have been made to the conditions of employment of staff, which in some cases did not comply with the applicable rules.
The exact circumstances are set out in point 46 of the 66.
In addition, a number of other cases were identified where payments were not fully in line with the existing regulations.
5. On the basis of the audit carried out, the Court may, with sufficient certainty, conclude that the accounts of heading 10 11 12 are reliable for the financial year ending 31 December 1995, provided that they are correct, that they reflect the revenue and expenditure of 1995 and the financial situation at the end of the year.
In addition to the relevant exception to the expenditure referred to in the previous paragraph, the underlying transactions were, in general, lawful and regular.
CONTROL INFORMATION General context 6 The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (EEC) No 337/75) as the European Community Satellite Centre for the promotion of vocational education and training at European Community level.
Cedefop started work in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Thessaloniki in 1995.
7. As defined in that Regulation, the Centre should assist the Commission in promoting vocational and continuing education and training at Community level, in contributing to the implementation of a common policy on vocational education and training, and in particular in promoting the exchange of information and experience."
In the field of vocational education and training, the Centre shall be responsible in particular for the development of documentation, contributing to the development and coordination of research, providing adequate documentation and information, promoting and supporting initiatives in order to achieve a coordinated solution (in particular with a view to bringing the levels of education and mutual recognition of certificates closer together) and the establishment of a meeting point with interested parties." 8. The Centre shall be managed by a management board of 48 members (in 1995 costs of ECU 334 000 were incurred); i1) Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75, published on 13 February 1975, OJ L 334, 13 October 1975;
The Management Board shall elect its Chairperson and three Vice-Chairs from among its members for a period of one year.
During the audit (May 1996), the Council was chaired by the Council by the Director General of the Council of Education and Youth and Education DG XXII.
The Director of the Centre shall be appointed by the Commission on the basis of a list of candidates submitted by the Governing Board.
9. In accordance with the basic Regulation, the Director shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Centre, while the Management Board shall have overall responsibility.
The Management Board shall adopt decisions, adopt the work programme and annual report, draw up the revenue and statement of expenditure for the preceding year and the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the coming year.
10. In accordance with the basic Regulation, the Commission's role, as represented by DG XXI I's representatives, is not only to represent the members of the Commission in the Governing Board, but also to adopt the work programme, to assess the review and revenue report, to assess the report and the financial statements, and to report the estimates of revenue and expenditure to the Council and the European Parliament, but also to report the estimates of revenue and expenditure.
In accordance with Article 23 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93* of 30 June 1993, any commitments and payments made by the Centre before the payment of: (a) must... receive the appropriate costs. (a) the benefits and benefits of the budget expenditure for support of Cedefop; (b) the efficient use of human resources and human resources; (c) quality products, meeting the needs of Cedefop customers; (d) a clear and consistent role in the European Community's vocational education and training policy.
Financial data 14. For the financial year 1995 the Centre had funds of ECU 16.50 million.
These commitments led to a payment of ECU 10,11 million and a transfer of ECU 4,67 million for the 1996 financial year, the remaining amount being cancelled of ECU 1,72 million.
The appropriations carried over from the previous year were paid at ECU 2.16 million and cancelled at ECU 0.29 million.
Annex 1 to this report shall include an analysis of the use of appropriations from the financial year and appropriations carried over from the financial year 1994.
Annex 2 provides the balance sheet of the revenue and expenditure account for the financial year 1995 and the balance sheet of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 1995.
Comments on the implementation of the budget Separation of activities 15. Following the move to Thessaloniki, Until the date of the inspection (May 1996), the relevant procedures for the separation of the activities of the authorising officer, the accounting officer and the administrator of pre-financing have not yet been introduced until the date of the inspection.
For example, it is observed that the accounting officer has taken control of the pre-financing administrator.
16. The amount of payments made without the consent of the financial controller remains high (in 1995 it was 60% without remuneration).
The strong use of the paying agency system is not in line with the spirit of the financial rules.
A more acceptable practice would consist of counting only small current expenditure and expenditure on the payment account, where the risk of irregularities is relatively low.
In 1995, transfers between different budget headings amounted to ECU 922 000, i.e. 5.6% of the original budget compared to 10.9% in 1994.
In the last two months of 1995, the transfer of 33% was made in 1994.
18. The Centre did not exceed the appropriations between the various titles in 1995.
The Court's observations from last year (2) were therefore taken into account.
19. The large carry-over practice seen in previous years [3] continued to increase in 1995;
In 1995 only 61% of the funds finally available were paid out compared to 73% in 1994.
The share of commitments carried over to 1996 was 28% (compared to 23% in 1994).
The share of the lost funds was 10 % compared to 5% in 1994.
Table 1 shows the breakdown by title of appropriations carried over from the original budget for 1995 and their subsequent use.
20. Transfers in the area of operational expenditure amounted to 53% of the original appropriations compared to 40% in 1994.
Since 8 percent of the operating expenditure was lost, this means that only 39 percent of its operating budget for 1995 was paid out in 1995 by the Centre.
At the end of the first quarter of 1996 only 34% of the appropriations carried over from 1995 under Title 3 were paid.
21. A large number of transfers within the budget and cancelled appropriations and a large number of transfers within the budget for a given financial year indicate that the work programme has not been carried out in accordance with the plan and that the budgetary policy is in danger.
This and the lack of human resources (see paragraphs 42 and 45) will have a serious impact on the implementation of the budget in 1996.
Notes on the revenue and expenditure account and on the statement of revenue and expenditure[assigned by the Commission] 22. The amount of the subsidy for the general budget of the Communities for the financial year 1995 was paid by the Commission in several instalments; the first tranche of ECU 2 300 000 was paid on 6 February 1995, then ECU 2 400 000 on 20 April 1995, at ECU 2 500 000 on 28 June 1995, at ECU 2 800 000 on 5 October 1995, at ECU 5 875 000 on 22 November 1995 and at ECU 525 000 on 1 December 1995;
As in previous years (4), the payment rate is inconsistent (2) The Court's annual report for the financial year 1994.
(3) The Court's annual accounts for the financial years 1992 and 1993, containing Article 26 of the Centre's financial rules, which state that payments are made during the first half of each quarter and are adapted to the actual needs.
23. Following the decision to transfer the Centre to Thessaloniki, a new deputy director was appointed in 1994 who was living and working in Thessaloniki.
The worker moved to Berlin and received a development allowance of twice the basic salary. Less than a year later, i.e. after the transfer of Zen to Thessaloniki, the same employee again received a development allowance of twice the basic salary.
Since the transfer of the centre took place quickly, the stay in Berlin was short (11 months); in Thessaloniki, he also spent part of that period, as well as the full (including weekends) daily allowance; the Court considered that the decisions were not in accordance with the principle of sound financial management and were contrary to the principle of sound financial management and that they were not in accordance with the principle of Cedefop.
24. The Treaty of another Deputy Director who moved from Berlin to Madrid in July 1995 was signed by the Governing Board with effect from 3 January 1995.
As a result, the worker received a payment of ECU 71 030.
The Court considers that the decision of the Management Board was not in line with the principles of economic governance.
(25) Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993, provides that, if the sum of the contracts does not exceed ECU 12 000, it cannot be awarded free of charge.
I n at least 12 cases were disposed of more than 12 000 ECU, except for the procurement procedure referred to in Article 45 of that Regulation.
26. Nearly 40 percent of the commitments for the budget line... of pilot studies and projects" of the 1995 financial year (ECU 300 000) have been implemented in the last two months of 1995.
The amount of ECU 150 572 was allocated to the expert who started work at Cedefop on 1 February 1.996 and to another expert whose contract was signed on 22 December 1995.
These measures have been granted for too long not to depreciate these measures.
27. The rental of Cedefop's temporary premises for January 1996 (ECU 22 750) was already entered in the 1995 account.
Since these expenditures relate to the financial year 1996, they should also be entered in the accounts in 1996 and 1994.
The Court urges the Centre to draw up the current list as soon as possible, in accordance with the requirements of Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993.
29. The balance sheet shows that an amount of ECU 3 134 that has been paid in respect of an invoice issued in 1991 has been outstanding in respect of the charges paid in the previous financial year.
Last year, the Court's observations [5] were not taken into account, although the Centre's response provided adequate assurances.
The Court recommends that the Centre cancel the amount unless there is reason to believe that the amount will be recovered •.
30. At the end of the year, the Centre had the financial resources of ECU 5.9 million.
The Centre is therefore responsible for managing large amounts of money, although it has little knowledge in this area.
The Court reiterates its observation [6] expressed last year that this situation should be avoided by aligning the Centre's quarterly financial collection with the Commission's actual financial needs; - At the same time, the Commission should ensure that the Centre receives a realistic liquidation vision before making payments;
Transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki General comments ^B 31. At the European Council meeting of 29 October 1993, it was decided to transfer the seat of Cedefop from Berlin to Thessaloniki in Greece (7).
32. The actual transfer to Thessaloniki took place in August 1995 and in September 1995 the centre began to operate in Greece.
According to the Court's calculations, the 1995 budget accounts contain around ECU 3 300 000 for removal expenses.
33. Since 1 September 1995, the centre has been located in the Thessaloniki Institute of Agriculture and Industry.
From 1 September 1999 at the latest, the Greek State shall make the building of permanent accommodation available to the Centre.
The Centre has signed four agreements-- ((i) the Court's annual report for the financial year 1994.
(6) The Court's annual report for the financial year 1994.
(7) Council Decision 93/C 323/01 of 29 October 1993, OJ C 323, 30.11.1993, p. 1, concerning the rental of temporary premises and the construction of a permanent accommodation building.
The basic agreement between Cedefop and the Greek State was signed in Thessaloniki on 22 June 1995.
The remaining three agreements, including the agreement between the Greek State and the organisation responsible for the whole construction, form part of this basic agreement.
For temporary accommodation 34. The temporary building of the centre must be paid an annual rent of ECU 273 000, paid directly to the owner.
35. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement between the Greek State and the Centre, the Greek State shall make the building available to Cedefop and any installations associated with it since 1 September 1995.
The Greek authorities are responsible for electrical and electronic cable connections and for telephone calls.
36. At the time of the transfer of the Centre building, there were no written objections.
During the first four months in Thessaloniki (September - December 1995), the centre had to invest ECU 120 000 in order to enable the building to function with temporary premises.
In this way, it was necessary to install electronic and electrical cable connections and telephone connections.
37. These investments were fully covered by the Centre and the related costs were presented in the 1995 accounts.
These agreements do not provide a clear indication of who is to take over these investments.
The Greek authorities shall make available to the Centre a building intended for final accommodation no later than 1 September 1999.
For the construction of the Cedefop building, the total amount of ECU 6 879 750 will be paid to the Greek State in four equal tranches of ECU 1 719 937.
For the first three tranches the payment dates were set at 1 September 1995, at 1 September 1996 and at 1 September 1997.
The last tranche shall be paid at the time of the final transfer of the building.
39. The Centre has not ensured that these payments are linked to the real progress of construction works.
The Centre has been paid over two years before the transfer of the building to the amount of ECU 5 159 811.
40. The Court recommends that the Centre ensure that interest is allocated to the first tranche to V orbei.
The Centre should ensure that the Organisation of the Staff Centre for Food (O.E.K.), which is responsible for the general performance of the work carried out by Cedefop, is responsible for the performance of the work which is carried out by Cedefop.
Staff: General comments 42.The 1995 Employment Plan provides for 79 jobs, including 24À.11LA,15B,26Cund3D.During the audit (May 1996) 37 people actually worked for Cedefop (14 A, 7 B, 14 C and 2 D), 11 people were taken over by other EU institutions., 14 people left the Centre before moving to Thessaloniki and 17 people left for Berlin.
In 1995 and 1996, many new workers had already had to be hired and the situation would continue to develop in 1996.
43. 17 people staying in Berlin can work in public and private institutions or in other EU institutions. They continue to receive a salary for a maximum period of 18 months, depending on their age, in Cedefop (each year in work (each year in work is a monthly salary and the minimum period of service is 6 months).
After that period, interested parties may move to Thessaloniki or seek another solution.
This situation causes, among other things, that Cedefop cannot fill 17 posts (May 1996) because they are blocked in the budget and cannot be filled, because the people concerned may later refuse to move to Thessaloniki.
44. It is unclear what will happen to those of this group of 17 people who do not want to move to Thessaloniki after a fixed period of stay in Berlin.
Article 20 of the Staff Regulations provides that an official is to have an obligation, at the place of his employment or at such distance from that place, to the place where he is present, to the place where he is staying, so as not to obstruct the performance of his duties."
However, three cases of workers who were not ready to move to Thessaloniki were submitted to the EU Court of Justice.
45. This situation, in which 17 important budget posts will be blocked by workers who are currently not working under Cedefop, had already had a significant impact on the Centre's activities in 1995 and will have a significant impact in 1996 and 1997.
Staff: modification of the status of 46. I n Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 of 10 February 1975, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995, provides that the staff of the Centre shall be subject to the Regulation and to the rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Centre shall exercise the powers conferred on the appointing authority in respect of its staff.
The Management Board of the Centre shall, after consulting the Commission, adopt the relevant implementing rules.';
Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 also repeals Council Regulation (ECSC, EEC, Euratom) No 1859/76 of 29 June 1976 laying down the conditions of employment of the staff of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training.
This amendment was necessary to ensure the consistency of the management of the staff of decentralised institutions (...) at Community level" (8).
While the staff of the Centre have been appointed officials, the staff of the other decentralised bodies shall consist of temporary staff.
47. The Court examined the changes in the conditions of employment and other arrangements between the Management Board and staff and found a number of irregularities in which the Court described the most serious irregularities referred to in paragraph 49...66.
48. The Administrative Board has not submitted these findings to the financial controller in order to submit its comments.
However, all the commitments under these agreements have been settled under the advance payment procedure and have been subsequently approved by the financial controller.
The appointment of staff as officials of the 49th and the subsequent transfer of staff to Tessalo of some of the Centre took the following steps to adjust the situation of its staff: on 1 March 1995 the Centre took the following steps: : In the first step to all temporary staff until 1 March 1995 (Article 2 (b) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities), in the same grade and in the same grade as temporary staff. In the second step towards temporary staff (Article 2 (b) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities) for a period of time until 1 April 1995: In the second stage of employment of these staff was appointed as EU officials on the basis of an internal selection procedure which was subsequently adjusted on the basis of documents. April 1995.
The breach of the Staff Regulations following the appointment on 1 March 1995 of former contract staff of Cedefop. Following the appointment on 1 March 1995 of contract staff of Cedefop as temporary staff of no contract staff of any of the contract staff of the contract staff of the contract staff of the former contract staff of Cedefop should therefore not have been classified as higher 1 (or higher than 4 in grade A 1 (8) Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 amending Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 establishing Cedefop, fourth recital.
13. 3.97 Wein~~~1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 81/7 to A 4, LA 3 and LA 4) (see Article 32 of the Staff Regulations, which shall apply in accordance with Article 15 of the Staff Regulations of other temporary staff).
51. However, 33 of the 59 fixed-term workers were classified as senior workers than grade 3.
On 1 March 1995, the Centre published 15 combined calls for tenders and notifications of internal competitions.
In accordance with the Staff Regulations, the objective of the electoral procedure is to organise a competition with a larger number of candidates so that a vacant post can be filled with the best qualified candidate (Article 27 (1) of the Staff Regulations).
By definition, the ride is therefore linked to competitiveness and the risk of lack of competitiveness (10).
Consequently, the decisions of appointment should be considered unlawful (n) after the competition of abuse of discretion (n).
56. The Commission's Legal Service reached the same conclusion as confirmed by the note dated 4 January 1995, paragraph (c) (12).
57. Since the selection procedure was... different from that laid down in the Staff Regulations, the competitions that Cedefop held could be considered to be considered to be abusive in terms of recognition, which should be considered unlawful.
In accordance with Article 31 of the Staff Regulations, Cedefop's staff should have been appointed as officials as from 1 April 1995 as follows:... officials in category A or in the special language service category (LA): in the input or special group (i.e. A 7 or LA 7) (Article 31 (1));... officials in other categories: in the grade of secondment to the post of category of secondment (i.e. Β 1, Β 3 or Β 5; C 1, 3 or C 5, D 1, D 3 or D 4) (Article 31 (2)); : up to half of the nomination may be appointed staff members in the group of posted staff of the longest.
59. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, 32 of the 43 employees in positions higher than the group... than the group... the replacement group... has been nan... (13)...................................................................................................................................................................................................................m...m...................m...................m...................m...m...m...m...m...m...m...m...m...m...m...m...................m...................................................................................................................................................m................................................m...m................................m................................................m................................................m...................m
(10) Judgment of 29 September 1976 in Case 105/75 GI UFFRI DA v RAT, Case S. 1395. (n) Judgment in Case GI UFFRI DA, see above.
(12) The selection procedure by definition involves a risk of a lack of aid and there are clear legal reasons why this margin of risk should be maintained.
(13) Of the 17 staff appointed to category A 13 were appointed to a higher grade than A 7 (the status provides a limitation to six nominations); all five LAh staff to a higher grade than LA 7 (the status does not provide for this possibility); of the 18 C 12 staff appointed to a higher grade (the status provides that up to six nominations to a higher grade, the status does not provide for the possibility). In the case of 15 of the three staff for category D, two were appointed to a higher grade than in the grade (the status does not provide for this possibility).
failure to comply with the obligations relating to the trial period 60. Before the appointment of a staff member as a life officer, the staff member must successfully carry out the trial period (Article 34 of the Staff Regulations); therefore, after the trial period, an objective evaluation must be carried out at the end of the trial period;
61. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, officials were informed in advance of the final appointment. The probationary period was clearly defined as the necessary legal form" which in fact was not considered a conditional test (paragraph 4.1 of the Framework Agreement); the letter of 7 February 1995 to the officials for the trials, the second subparagraph and the first subparagraph of point (f) of the Annex: The probationary period is a legal formality, which must be probationary by each official); · directed by an official during the probationary period 62. According to Article 38 of the Staff Regulations, only officials on probation may be seconded to other institutions, i.e. officials who have successfully completed the probationary period.
65. This means that a system has been established whereby up to 50% of the remuneration of workers in the currency to which a higher adjustment factor is applied (i.e. the adjustment factor of 111.4% in Germany) is applied to Thessaloniki (in the case of Greece, an adjustment factor of 80.2% is applied).
The Commission has committed itself to introducing specific rules on mobility to the Centre.
These provisions are contrary to the principle of equal treatment of all officials.
Whereas Article 13 of Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 makes it clear that the Staff Regulations and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants apply to the staff of the Centre;
This means that all the provisions of this Article apply to the staff of the Centre, including Article 29 (1) (c), which concerns the acquisition of officials by other institutions.
Therefore, there is no justification for special treatment for mobility; a summary in 67. The Court's audit showed that the Centre's work programme was not carried out in accordance with the plan due to a serious shortage of staff.
This led to significant transfers and cancellations.
The audit also showed that effective administrative and accounting procedures have not yet been established.
68. Two alternate directors received a remuneration corresponding to the basic salary for a period of four months; these payments and a payment of ECU 71 030 to one of the alternate directors were not in line with the sound financial management and with the interests of the Centre.
69. During the Court's audit, there were 79 approved posts, but only 37 people actually worked at the Centre.
17 staff were appointed EU officials' even though they refused to move to Thessaloniki or were taken over by another Community institution.
Conclusion 71.It is understandable that, in connection with moving to Thessaloniki, efforts have been made to maintain staff in the EU institutions and to reduce the complex moving problems.
However, the problem is that the regulatory framework, in which the move was carried out, was not in line with the proper treatment of workers with high internships, even after the changes were made and did not allow the smooth transfer of Cedefop without abandoning its activities.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 21 November 1996.
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this Decision, the Council, acting in accordance with Article 13, may, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in this Decision, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 13 (1), in order to ensure consistency with the rules referred to in paragraph 1 referred to in Article 13 (1), take a decision in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12 (1).
33 \ 88 175 0 296 V'assets Fixed 1 Buildings and furniture Current assets 1 Stocks 2. Amounts to be recovered 3. Advances 4.VAT 5. Expenditure to be recovered 1 Bank account 1 Bank account 2. Payment account 1994 1290 23 15 1 222 849 2168 1 125 1995 941 7 26 9 251 1962 5360 504 Debt 1994 1 3 1 2 967 232 394 6 330 2 2 5 693 (ECU 1 000) 1995 948 2 013 482 558 16 326 4 668 49 9060 ANNEX 1 FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 - USE OF BUDGET 5 693 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of information provided by Cedefop.
Budget 1995 (ECU 1000) Appropriations carried over from 1994 Payments 5 279 2 916 1912 0 10 107 Payments carried over 548 343 1255 10 2 156 of 31 December 1995 9 060 Fixed capital 1. Own capital 2. Balance for the financial year Short-term liabilities 1. Payments against remuneration 2. Other liabilities Revenue to be recovered Appropriations carried over ·
TABLE 1 LOANS OF LOANS FROM THE LENT BUDGET UR 1995 (ECU) Staff expenditure Operational expenditure Operational expenditure Operational expenditure Operational expenditure Expenditure expenditure Expenditure not specifically provided for Total 1 273 814 820 797 2 563 677 10 000 4 668 288 Total for transfers of 106,7 20,6 52.9 100.0 28.3 Over the period 1-31.
3. Transfers made in 1996 1 048 148 '500 982 883 0 2 423 013 Transfers made in 1995 in % 82 61 34 0 52 Total (a)
The Administrative Board will follow the structure of the Court of Auditors' observations and conclusions.
3. The Management Board has reasonable expectations that all decentralised institutions and bodies will be treated similarly on the basis of the same technical standards and practices that ensure equal treatment.
4. The Management Board considers that the joint presentation of the problems does not mention the essential facts that could be summarised as follows: a decision of the European Council of 29 October 1993 was taken without a prior assessment of the effects of such a transfer.
During his first meeting with the staff, he expressed his unwavering willingness to move as of 1 September 1995, the schedule, which CEDEFOP, despite the problems associated with the transfer of the Centre, maintained..., the chairman of the board sent a letter to the responsible Commissioners, to Mr van Miert and to Mr Rubert.
On 18 November 1994, the members of the Commission adopted the President and Vice-Chairs of the Management Board of CEDEFOP.
The President asked the Commission to develop accompanying measures, in particular those workers who were unable to leave Berlin.
In view of the existing regulations, the Commissioners stressed that they were ready, in a positive and pragmatic spirit, to examine the specific problems that some workers are facing.
At its meeting of 8 and 9 December 1994, the Administrative Council was unable to take a decision on the date of the transfer as it was not acceptable to move to Thessaloniki.
At the same meeting, the Board of Directors appointed the Director to prepare an administrative decision (to be taken at an extraordinary meeting on 27 January 1995) which aimed at transferring the Centre until 1 September in a socially compatible manner. " in the second half of 1994, the Council began to examine the Commission's proposal to amend Article 13 of the Regulation applicable to CEDEFOP, which provided that the Centre's staff would be subject to the rules and rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Director accepted this amendment as the basis for the development of a framework agreement on accompanying measures for the transfer of CEDEFOP to Thessaloniki.
A framework agreement with staff was signed on 23 January 1995.
This preparation was carried out in close cooperation with the European Commission, which was very helpful throughout the transitional period (1994 for 1996).
13. 3.97 has gone to Thessaloniki, the Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/13.
Under the framework agreement, workers who could not leave Berlin decided to make available to other EU institutions or public/private organisations and to pay the Centre for a period of at least six months, each starting year being paid a monthly salary.
The principle of the payment of the monthly salary for each year of work is largely in line with the social programmes and the usual practices in Germany and neighbouring countries. Early pensions for 17 workers (age over 55 and over 10 years of age and over 50 years of age over 15 years of age) were considered in 1995.
These measures were not part of the framework agreement and were not finally proposed by the Commission on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers of 17 November 1995 to exempt civil servants of the European Parliament only on the basis of the accession of the new Member States.
In its opinions on point 46 to 66 the Management Board will provide more detailed answers.
In general, political aspects should be taken seriously and ex post criticism avoided.
The transfer of a complete Community body within the limits of a large number of different regulations and in the light of a large number of social and individual problems is in fact unique in the history of the Community.
5. The Governing Board shall return below to this reply to the exception mentioned in the last sentence.
8. The costs of meetings of the Management Board in 1995 are due to the need for two additional meetings (January and June) in connection with the transfer.
In addition, a meeting was held in December 1995, following the official start of business in Greece, with higher costs.
Only two meetings are planned in 1996.
13. The Management Board regrets that the Court has not responded to the decision of the European Parliament to postpone discharge in respect of the implementation of the 1994 budget.
This raises serious questions because the European Parliament, without the opinion of the Court of Auditors of 1995, on which the Council could make its observations, because the assessment of the financial year 1995, carried out by the European Parliament with regard to the Court of Auditors' report 1994 and the Council's recommendations on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget, leads to the confusion of very different situations; the Centre was moved to Greece in 1995.
The transfer was smooth and was carried out under acceptable conditions.
In view of the disturbances the workers were exposed to, this transfer requires a transitional period which can only be completed in 1997.
15. There is noticeable improvement in this respect.
At the beginning of the Thessaloniki phase, the workers helped each other to do their jobs.
16. As already mentioned last year, increased access to the paying agency system was increased at the request of the financial controller, which last year justified this cost-benefit indicator, which led to large, fast supply costs and led to delays.
As a result, the financial controller had to act more frequently.
The use of the pre-financing procedure for all expenditure which may have required temporary payments reduced administrative costs and prevented delays.
The situation is even more difficult due to the payment method in Greece (most payments are made in cash or in cheque).
Accounts with bank accounts are rare; contractors overlap their claims themselves.
Account should also be taken of geographical remoteness from the financial controller and of the lack of reliability of postal supplies.
In addition, the rapid delivery of DHL can only be made once a week due to costs (3 000 BFR per consignment).
The amendment to the decision establishing the pre-financing procedure will soon be submitted to the Management Board to better take account of the wishes of the Court of Auditors.
17. Transfers over the last two months have resulted from the need to make optimal use of the budget (from which ECU 2 000 000 was relocated and released shortly before the Centre's transfer to Thessaloniki) and from the decision of the Management Board (7./8.12.1995) to recruit seconded national experts (also to speed up the work of the Centre) in line with the Commission's recommendations.
19. The Management Board was aware of the fact that the years 1995 and 1996 would be the period of transition and renewal.
Some reduction in productivity is inevitable in the case of this international transfer, which, in the opinion of the Management Board, has been carried out in an acceptable and efficient manner.
The Centre is still struggling with the problems arising from the transition period.
20. As the transfer of the Centre took place with a significantly reduced number of employees, the work of administration and all other services slowed down.
Therefore, an application was submitted and non-automatic carry-overs were approved.
Accordingly, in accordance with Article 26 of the Financial Regulation, the Administrative Board shall make every effort to ensure compliance with the provisions of Article 26 of the Financial Regulation of the Centre and to pay the grant in accordance with the actual needs of the first two weeks of the quarter.
In 1995 there was an improvement compared to 1994.
Long internal procedures (in which the initiating authority, the financial controller and the accounting officer participates) and the duration of the transfer procedure by the bank, however the total delay over the period (on average 12 days in 1995) cannot be entirely avoided.
However, in 1995, three payments would be almost in line with the provisions of Article 26 in view of the fact that they were made in the centre in less than four days after the first two weeks of the quarter.
If the processing period for all payments (9 to 22 days) corresponds to the average 12-day processing period for all payments, all payments would be made in accordance with Article 26 of the Financial Regulation.
The first payment was not in line with the rules, but the payment must be preceded by a budgetary commitment which takes some time.
23. The Deputy Director moved from Thessaloniki to Berlin due to a lack of certainty as to the actual date of the transfer of the centre.
At the time of the appointment (1 October 1994), the time of the removal was not yet decided (which could still be postponed).
He hoped that his stay would be short, but his final duration was still unknown.
For normal family reasons, he moved to Berlin under status conditions.
daily travel allowances have been granted in accordance with the same procedure as for other staff;
As regards the second development aid, the Deputy Director reimbursed the amount of the Centre after carrying out the inspection, even though it was granted the full right.
24. At its meeting in June 1995, the Management Board announced its Treaty on 31 December 1995 and instructed the Director to implement this Decision and to implement the payments under the Staff Regulations.
The Management Board welcomed the willingness of the Deputy Director to participate in the 1995 Work Programme and to assist the Centre in the re-launch of Thessaloniki.
The compensation (payment of one third of the basic salary from the date on which the obligation to provide the service expired until the date of termination of the contract) was in line with its contract and with Article 47 of the BBSB.
25. In view of the difficulties involved in the initial stage and the large number of new contracts, the Centre was not able to carry out normal tendering procedures in any case.
For long-term contracts, tendering procedures are currently under way or are planned for 1996.
In addition, in order to ensure sustainable financial management in the course of the year, the Management Board would prefer to adopt a work programme in order to allow the services to ensure the time needed for calls for tenders, commitments and contracts to be concluded during the first months of the financial year.
26. 40 percent of the commitments for the budget line "Studies and pilot projects" (ECU 300,000) have been paid in the last months of the year due to the delay in the use of the 1995 budget by the budgetary authority and the transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki.
The Centre had to act logically and consistently without leaving it a choice, because it had to meet its financial commitments referred to in Titles I and II first and only after the reimbursement of the appropriations under Title III.
The possibility of the secondment of national experts was granted by the Governing Board at its December 1995 meeting and could only be financed by deferred appropriations.
The Director had to act quickly and within a short period of time in order to prevent a loss of funds which had occurred in a short period of time.
The invitation (Austrian) of an expert (officially supported by the government) took place already at the beginning of 1995.
27. The reason why the rent was entered in the 1995 accounts until January 1996 was fully practical.
According to the contract, the rent must be paid in advance in two instalments on 1 January and 1 July.
Since the first payment took place only in October 1995 and it would be difficult to repay it immediately on 1 January 1996, the first payment was made for a period of five months which covered January 1996.
28. The update of the list is ongoing.
29. This will be fulfilled.
30. The Centre shall ensure that it provides the Commission with realistic information on the cash flow.
The last payment in the year should be the largest, as it must also be intended to cover the first months of the following year, in which larger payments are usually made.
31. See comments to point 4.32. The Centre's administration shall assess the costs of the transfer and assess the evolution of the situation in order to obtain a complete picture of the costs and benefits of the transfer to Greece.
13. 3.97 AND DE 1 ^ Official Journal of the European Communities C 81/15 36.-37.
As the Centre is expected to return to work immediately after the move, additional investments and changes were needed.
It was found that the agreements do not contain a clear statement because the Centre has more electrical connections and stronger computer cables than currently needed.
Other investments concerned additional security and communication needs, such as satellite security, for the direct reception of consignments through the institution.
However, the Centre included questions concerning the temporary building on the agenda of the Steering Committee, which deals with the new and (if necessary) temporary building.
The Administrative Board is aware of the fact that the content of the agreement on the new building has abolished the Greek Government's great responsibility and is therefore now fulfilling the agreement.
Two issues raise particular concerns: in order to ensure good quality of the building at a reasonable price; in order to ensure the timely completion of the building (as far as possible before 1 September 1998).
The fact that large payments have been made in advance (half of the building is already paid, although construction works have not yet started) may have positive effects, as construction works (after selecting the construction plan and the construction company in October/November 1996) may be fast due to the immediate availability of the necessary funds.
Overall, the Management Board fully understood the Court's concerns, which were shared by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Kellet-Bowmann and Mr Tappin, who visited the Centre on 1 and 2 May and 14 and 15 May respectively.
The Management Board shall be prepared to take action on this matter in accordance with the recommendations of the Commission.
42. The situation of staff was very complicated due to the various accompanying measures, but all the people on the CEDEFOP payroll who were not made available to other organisations or who were posted to Berlin took action on CEDEFOP and its work programme.
43. The Administrative Board has decided on accompanying measures for the transfer (Framework Agreement) in order to take appropriate measures as soon as possible" (see statements in the Council Protocol).
The assessment of measures must therefore take into account their political context.
The Centre is located in Thessaloniki and the Management Board and the Director decide on the organisation of the work.
Certain positions are certainly blocked as long as the accompanying measures are effective.
However, by the end of 1996, almost all actions will be completed and, subsequently, CEDEFOP will be able to act to the full on the basis of the medium-term priorities to be adopted by the Administrative Statute in November 1996 and the 1997 Work Programme, which will also be based on these priorities.
CEDEFOP will therefore pursue the future through a restored and new approach from 1997 onwards.
44. Those who cannot leave Berlin for social or personal reasons, when their fixed time in Berlin ends, have three alternatives.
Consequently, the Court of First Instance issued three provisions, which rejected requests for interim proceedings.
These persons must move, withdraw from the service of the Centre or find solutions in accordance with the Staff Regulations.
45. The effects in 1996 are obviously serious, but will be minimal after the first months of 1997.
The transfer had its consequences and costs.
However, if we compare them with a similar transfer at national level, for example from Paris to Marseilles (where only 21 out of 120 workers moved to the centre), due to the international transfer to a distance of almost 2000 km, CEDEFOP did not have a very negative impact.
Careful cost estimates suggest that cost neutrality will be achieved in 2000 and that it will be even more cost-effective (mainly due to lower labour costs in Greece). 46-66.
(a) as the Court explains in its summary (2001), it is understandable that the efforts to support workers were made in order to support them in order to continue their activities to the EU institutions, as well as in order to address the problems of relocation. (b) following the Decision of 27 January 1995, the Council (Regulation (EC) No 251/95) amended Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 on 6 February 1995 so that the staff of the Centre are subject to the rules and rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.'
Despite the absence of transitional provisions, such as the adoption of Council Regulation (EEC, Eura: torn, ECSC) No 269/68 (see Article 102 of the status of officials of the European Communities).
It should be taken into account that CEDEFOP could be considered as workers of the European Communities, although they were covered by the Council Regulation ad hoc. d) Since Community legislation did not provide for transitional measures, the Administrative Board had no choice but to act under its own responsibility to protect the rights and interests of CEDE-FOP workers. e) It should not be forgotten that Regulation (EC) No 251/95, under which the seat of CEDEFOP had been transferred from Berlin to Thessaloniki, meant a sudden change from the place of employment referred to in the employment contracts: Berlin had been the only seat of CEDEFOP for 20 years.
CEDEFOP employees concluded an employment contract on this basis and applied their private decisions on this basis (the employment of spouses, training of children). (f) In these circumstances, the Management Board was required to ensure that employees were adequately secured (the designation of officials for life) and to ensure that their employees, their grades and grades, and that the employees who wanted their help in searching for work in another place of work, were permanently in positions approved by the CEDEFOP budgetary authority.
In accordance with Articles 2 and 8 of the Conditions of employment of other EC servants, these posts may be filled only by officials or temporary servants. (h) In addition, the text of Regulation (EC) No 251/95 (over, the staff of the Centre shall be subject to the rules and rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities) expressly provides for the employment of officials.
Since the posts of staff are of a lasting nature, a decision on the status of officials instead of fixed-term contracts was justified and justified.
The Management Board also wishes to comment on the issues raised by the Court: the 46th (last sentence) The Management Board had a choice on whether to... appoint officials for life employment or to propose to them two-year contracts (see the opinion in (g) above).
It was considered that workers should not be required to move from Berlin to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract.
48. Although it is true that the Administrative Board has not formally submitted the findings to the financial controller to obtain confirmation, the Board of Directors has, however, been informed of the decisions taken.
At the time of signing the agreement, the financial consequences of the agreement had not yet been established, due to independent individual decisions taken by the employees.
It was the basis for individual decisions and received full approval of the financial controller during the visit to Berlin.
50-51.
In the light of the above, point (e) of the Decision (see note (second) was the only possible decision.
It also complied with the Commission's clear declaration (see the last sentence of the declaration for the Council's minutes in the Annex) that the conditions of employment of CEDEFOP staff should not be deteriorated."
In view of this from paragraph 56, the Commission's legal services, which have been partially cited, leave enough room for such a decision to be taken.
The Administrative Board recalls that, in accordance with Article 29 of the Staff Regulations, the appointing authority has the right to carry out internal selection procedures in order to fill vacant posts in the institution (point (lb).
The selection procedures have been carried out in full compliance with Annex III to the Staff Regulations.
55. The Management Board had the intention and duty to ensure that as many CEDEFOP staff as possible agreed to move to Thessaloniki.
Whereas it must not be overlooked that Regulation (EC) No 251/95 amended, with effect from 1 March 1995, the provisions applicable to workers and that the move to Thessaloniki took place in August of the same year;
The Administrative Board was based on the following considerations: it boasted that on the basis of a two-year agreement on the basis of which they moved to Thessaloniki (note g) and paragraph 46 above), there was not enough time to carry out a general selection procedure before moving to Thessaloniki, and it was not realistic to expect them to move to Thessaloniki and not to dress up without taking up any safe work.
13. 3.97 AND DE AND THE submission of the Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/17 56.59./ The Management Board has already explained (see above, note e) that moving to Thessaloniki meant a sudden change in the workplace, which inevitably caused social problems, and for a certain period had an impact on productivity.
The demand for workers to leave would make their situation worse if they leave to work if they were assigned a low degree or a low degree.
The Commission's Legal Service note referred to in point 56 gives in point (d) sufficient arguments to justify the position taken by the Centre. 60 to 61.
All staff who applied for the appointment of the clerks for life-long employment have completed the probationary period provided for in Article 34 of the status.
62. In accordance with note (f), the third indent above, the Administrative Board has found it an obligation to assist an employee in an acceptable manner.
This view was also represented by the Commission's Legal Department.
65. The provisions governing the way in which money transfers are made part of the remuneration shall increase this percentage from 35 to 50% on a case-by-case basis, where there are justified reasons as referred to in Article 4 of the Regulation.
The framework agreement allowed, on a case-by-case basis and in the case of certain obligations provided for in the Staff Regulations, introduced before 29 October 1993 (the date on which the European Council decided to transfer the Centre), a higher percentage in the case of the percentage referred to in the Staff Regulations but < 50%).
The application of these rules is quite different for CEDEFOP and only applies to a limited number of people with high obligations in Berlin.
66. The Management Board thankes the Commission for the assistance it has provided in many cases in the search for alternative jobs for workers who were unable to move to Thessaloniki and for the assistance it has provided almost every day during the move.
68. See the Governing Board's comments on points 23 and 24.69.-70.
See in particular the general comments in paragraphs 46 to 66.
71. The Management Board regrets the fact that the legislator has not included any transitional provisions in Regulation (EC) No 251/95 in order to address the problems arising from the transfer to Thessaloniki.
In the absence of appropriate instruments, the Management Board was all the more obliged to provide all the assistance to CEDEFOP staff.
The Administrative Board considers that it only acted in an acceptable manner in circumstances that are in fact unprecedented.
Finally, it was clear that it had to make such an effort (as the Court acknowledged), because, as an employer, it was the duty to conduct, in a socially acceptable manner, the international liquidation of the institution as a whole.
The board, the director and the staff acted in such a positive spirit, and they could take a certain risk, but they did not abuse the power, nor did they interfere in such a way as not to interfere in the law.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1191/69 of 23 April 1993 laying down general provisions on the European Social Fund (OJ L 119, 23.5.1993, p. 1).. (OJ L 23, 23.2.1993, p. 1).. (OJ L 119, 22.5.1993, p. 1)... (OJ L 23, 23.2.1993, p. 1). (OJ L 22.1.1993, p. 1).. (OJ L 22, 27.1.1993, p. 1). (OJ L 219, 22.1.1993, p. 1).
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
2. The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ending 31 December 1995.
In accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93
(OJ L 164, 24.6.1976, p. 16).
This Regulation complies with Articles 52, 54 and 55 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93
26) amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (OJ L 181, 23.7.1993, p. 26).
The Court of Auditors shall verify these accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
3. The Court has carried out an audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards insofar as they apply to the context of the Community; the Court has carried out audits of the accounts and has carried out other audit procedures which it considered necessary in this regard; 4.
Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 8) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1).
Dublin Foundation started its activity in 1976.
The scope of the audit 6. The Court of Auditors reviewed the annual accounts and the financial management of the Dublin Foundation in 1995 in accordance with the relevant regulations (2).
Financial data 7. For the financial year 1995 the Foundation had funds of ECU 12.5 million.
These commitments led to a payment of ECU 9.3 million and a transfer of ECU 3 million for the financial year 1996 and the remaining ECU 0.2 million was cancelled.
Of the amount carried over from the previous year, ECU 1.9 million were paid and ECU 0.2 million were cancelled.
Annex 3 to this report provides an analysis of the use of appropriations from the financial year and appropriations carried over from 1994 by title.
Monitoring earlier observations Separation of tasks 8. The Court reiterates its observations earlier years that the tasks of the authorising officer and the accounting officer are not sufficiently separated.
This is contrary to Article 15 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, which provides that the principle that the authorising officer and the accounting officer shall apply, and that the actions of the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer are contrary to each other."
Paying Agency 9. A significant proportion of the payment (1995: 5 9 %, without remuneration) remains without the prior consent of the financial controller.
The scope of use of the paying agency is not in line with the financial rules.
This would strengthen the possibility of the recognition of only (2) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 on the establishment of the Foundation (OJ L 335, 13.12.1975, p. 1).
as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 139, 30.5.1975), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93.
Article 3 3 3 - Total
(OJ L 164, 24.6.1976), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ 1993 L 164, 24.6.1976), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93.
3.97 Current or minor expenditure, for which the risk of irregularities is relatively low, should be settled through the paying agency; the Foundation should, in consultation with the financial controller, specify in writing what should be understood as current and minor expenditure.
In 1995 the Foundation continued to transfer the appropriations under Title 10 (see paragraph 16).
This is contrary to Article 21 of Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (11.9% of the budget) of Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, whereas in 1994 it amounted to ECU 75600 (6,5%).
16. The transfer of the appropriations of ECU 500 000 under Title 1 (personal) to Title 3 (operational expenditure) enabled the Foundation to carry over the commitments to the following financial year, which, otherwise, in accordance with Article 6 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 should be cancelled.
As already stated in paragraph 10, the Court considers that such transfers in title are contrary to the financial rules.
Transfers and cancellations of appropriations 17. As shown in Annex 3 to the Regulation, the clearance of payments shows a total payment rate of 75%, whereas the payment rate of Title 3... of operational expenditure is only 54%.
Table 1 shows the breakdown into 1995 budget transfers and their subsequent use in 1996.
The transfers under Title 3 amounted to 45% of the original measures.
Only 20% of transfers were used until the end of March 1996.
Revenue of the 18th EU subsidy to the Foundation in 1995 amounted to ECU 12.5 million.
The amounts actually requested and received amounted to ECU 2,5 million on 26 April 1995, ECU 2 million on 14 June 1995, ECU 4,3 million on 12 October 1995 and ECU 1,3 million on 31 December 1995.
The difference of ECU 2,4 million did not correspond to unnecessary money resources which were not made available to the Commission in accordance with the Court's recommendation of the previous year.
As in previous years, the financing formula does not comply with Article 26 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93, according to which the aid is paid in the first half of each quarter.
19. Pursuant to Article 63 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, contracts of a value exceeding ECU 12 000 must be awarded by invitation to tender.
The following contracts were released: for contracts of ECU 533 072 for the purpose of the pan-European examination of working conditions, contracts were awarded on a unilateral basis: six contracts which were selected for inspection, on the basis of Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976 on Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93, of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93, were awarded for contracts of ECU 533 072 for the purpose of carrying out a pan-European examination of working conditions.
13. 3.97 D may be issued independently in three cases (delivery of computers in one case and study contracts in another) in three cases (delivery of computers in one case and study contracts in another) (Article 46) and in three cases in order to avoid a tendering procedure (Article 46).
20. In two cases, it was established that expenditure had been invoiced before the budgetary commitment was made.
In one case, the accounts for November and December 1994 were included in the commitment of the budget in 1995, although the framework agreement between the Foundation and the contractor only started on 1 January 1995.
21. In a sample of 10 student contracts examined, five contracts received final reports only after months after the date on which the contract was concluded.
22. During the audit, the Court found that the documents had been amended by the corrective fluid in the following cases: the date of the invoice in which the financial controller received invoices in excess of ECU 45 365 ( ECU 23 817) had been entered by the corrective fluid and was amended on 17 January 1995 on 17 December 1994.
The financial controller confirmed this on the basis of this fax and as a result of the change of the date • expenditure was booked on the basis of the 1994 transfers and not on 1995, and the amount entered in the recovery order entered in the amount entered entered in the recovery order was entered and, as a result of the change, on the basis of ECU 1680,16, at ECU 4741,97.
It is not clear what amount the approval of the financial controller refers to.
27. The control of the sample of payments revealed problems in the management of the contracts and due to inadequate changes in the relevant documents, see paragraphs 19 to 22.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 7 November 1996.
No C 81/22 1 PL [Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Assets 1994 Assets 1. Building 7106 2.Fabric 1 0 8 5 Current assets 1. Stocks 21 2.Funds to be reimbursed 439 3.Travel advances 8 4. Miscellaneous advances 1 5. Bank charges 6 Cash accounts 1. Bank account in the bosom of July numerical account in the account account account in the account account account account accounts account account accounts account accounts of accounts accounts of accounts accounts to the account of the European Communities [2.... [2.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1 097/314 - 5 8 (ECU 1 000) 1995 10 143 165 39 10 347 5 185 28 833 177 3 320. 2 807 12 350 -2 003 147 -184 -2 04 04 Staff expenditure 1. Payments carried over 1 year 2 Appropriations carried over Operational expenditure 1 year 2 Payments carried over 1 year 2 Appropriations carried over Outturn 1 year (a) in the previous year (b) Exchange rate difference in previous year (b) in year 1 1344.
Total (a) Balance of year
No C 81/24 DE Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Title 1. Personal expenditure Final measures 5 316 1 0 5 0 6 174 Payments 5 185 (97.5) 833 (79.3) 3 320 (53.8) Transfers 28 (0.5) 177 (16.9) 2 807 (45.4) cancellation 103 (2) 40 (3.8) 47 (0.8) 190 (1.5) Available measures 160 169 1732 2 061 Payments 131 (81.9) 141 (84.4) 1642 (94.8) 1914 (92.9) cancellation 29 (18.1) 28 (16.1) 90 (5.2) 147 (7,1).
2. Current operational expenditure 3. Total operational expenditure 3 012 (24) ANNEX 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 - USE OF BUDGET 12 540 The figures in brackets correspond to the percentage of the final or available appropriations.
Title 1 2 3 Transfers from the 1995 financial year 27 956 177 357 2 806 626 3 011 938 Transfers from the original budget At 31.3.1996 Transfers from the carry-over (%) Total Budget 1995 (ECU 1 000) Transfers from 1994 9 338 (74.5) TABLE 1 Transfers from the 1995 budget (ECU) 0,5 16,9 45,4 24 27 134 97 67 932 38 504 720 18 599 786 20
13. 3.97 I DE I radio Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/25 ANS. 8) The Foundation has introduced a number of measures to separate the tasks of the authorising officer from the duties of the accounting officer.
The Court of Auditors noted these initiatives in previous reports.
The only problem in practice is the procedure whereby the authorising officer records expenditure in the existing integrated accounting system.
This problem will be resolved once the Foundation has created a new accounting system.
After consultation with 1995 the Foundation, together with other EU agencies, participated in a joint procurement procedure for the purchase of the relevant accounting system in 1996.
As a result, none of the candidates fulfilled the institution's requirements in 100%.
Whereas, as a result of the deepest contacts with the Commission services, it is expected that the Foundation will acquire an appropriate accounting system from the Commission during 1997 following the final completion of the work on a system which meets the Agency's technical and legal requirements;
9. The Foundation contacted the Commission services to address the identified problem.
The Foundation was informed that this issue would be discussed between the Commission and the European Parliament in the framework of the ongoing dialogue on the Agency's Financial Regulation.
10. Following the last Court of Auditors report, the Foundation asked the Commission services to clarify the Foundation's Financial Regulation for these transfers.
The Foundation is currently informed by the Director-General of DG XIX that transfers have been made in accordance with the Foundation's Financial Regulation (see also paragraph 16).
11. All missions carried out at the Foundation have been documented and approved by the authorising officer after he has ensured that they comply with the Foundation's work programme or administrative requirements.
The Foundation shall review its procedures for registering and searching for the necessary documents relating to missions.
The Foundation Regulation requires consultation of the European institutions and the involvement of the social partners in their work.
Although the exchange of information with the relevant EU bodies has continued in Brussels in recent years, the number of travels to Brussels has not increased.
No business trips shall be made if other means of communication may be used.
Telephones, internet, e-mails and other electronic tools are used as far as possible and video-conferences were also launched in November 1995.
There were also experiments at Com-puter conferences.
14. On the basis of the request made by the Irish authorities, lawyers are currently preparing a revised lease agreement.
16. As mentioned in paragraph 10 above, the Commission informed the Foundation that the transfer in question was fully in line with the Financial Regulation, with its assistance, the Foundation was able to make the most of the funds it had spent under the decision of the budgetary authorities.
However, the Foundation appreciates the position of the Court of Auditors and of Parliament and seeks to ensure that such transfers are carried out only in the event of an emergency.
These agreements mainly concerned research with 12-month implementation deadlines.
18. The Foundation will remind the Commission services that payments must be made by the 15th quarter of each quarter.
19. The Treaty on the conduct of the European investigation of working conditions, in the acts in question, states that the agreement was concluded on the basis of a framework agreement between the European Commission and INRA (Eurobaromètre-dard), drawn up in the framework of the open tender procedure (Eurobaromètre-Stan-dard).
The award of contracts by free of charge was fully in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation and the criteria to be met in this regard and in accordance with Article 46 (d) in the case of the supply of computers.
Only one supplier had the required software and special multitasks and provided local support: the other two contracts refer to the research proposals.
The Administrative Board of the Foundation at its meeting on 25 March 1994 approved the introduction of new procedures which should be fully on-going in 1995, in respect of contracts based on calls for expressions of interest published in the Official Journal and calls for tenders.
Both contracts were concluded during a transitional period defined by the Management Board.
20. The Foundation manages the decentralised procurement system.
These two accounts were part of a series of orders submitted by the operating entity, whose total orders exceeded the financial obligations.
Appropriate measures should be taken to prevent these measures from repeating themselves.
The creation of a new system for the management of Accounts should ensure the automatic implementation of the necessary controls.
21. Monitoring of the execution of study contracts takes place monthly as part of the management of the programme.
22. The order was submitted in respect of the competent services on 11 October 1994.
The change of date on the invoice had no impact on the transfer.
Nevertheless, the official concerned was contested.
In the future, adjustments to be made manually will be signed and dated.
13. 3.97 [Official Journal of the European Communities C 81/27 Report on the annual accounts of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA-London) together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/03) (1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in accordance with Article 57 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (a) 1.2.
The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 57 (7) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director.
Whereas it is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice (2), whereas it must comply with the internal financial rules referred to in Article 57 (11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93; whereas, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to examine that invoice;
This is the Agency's first evaluation report.1.3.
The main observations drawn from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report. 1.4. The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the overall legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are guaranteed.
Ç) OJ No L 26, Ç, Ç, p. Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç, Ç.
In accordance with Article 57 (9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the report on all the Agency's revenue and expenditure was drawn up on 31 March 1996, 31 March 1996.
This accounting was adopted by the Court on 9 April 1996.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In the financial year 1995, the Agency recovered a grant from the Commission (ECU 10.1 million) without issuing appropriate recovery orders.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.6.
Until August 1995, there was no commitment and payment log for this financial year.
At the end of the year, the Agency established an accounting system.
The Court concludes that this system allows for subsequent rebooking without detection.
In view of the lack of commitments as of the date, due to the lack of budgetary resources, the available appropriations have been exceeded (infringement of Articles 29, 35 and 36 of the Agency's Financial Regulation), although the Administrative Director has presented the amending budget approved by the Management Board (moved from chapter to chapter).
By August 1995, the Agency cleared all payments via the paying agency.
Such additional use of the pre-financing scheme is contrary to Article 45 of the Financial Regulation to the Agency, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure. 1.8.
Furthermore, the Agency did not start clearing the expenditure until September 1995.
on 31 December 1995, around ECU 937 000 had to be paid on 31 December 1995 on 31 December 1995;
General account 1.9.
In connection with the clearance of payments by the paying agency, accounting and budgetary records were only held in September and December 1995.
It violates accounting rules.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 26 September 1996.
Total 1 Appropriations carried over non-automatically 2. Automatic carry-overs Total V Trust accounts 1994 1488 0 1488 1 0 1 8 2 831 3 849 31 3 34 0 5 371 (ECU 1 000) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 564 5 914 41 85 126 390 1226 199 1 815 10 800 TABLE 1 TRANSFER AT THE TIME 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 800 Source: Court's presentation on the basis of information prepared by the Agency. 17 5 371 Total Total Liabilities Total Liabilities Total binding measures Total 1 temporary buy-backs 2. Different credit institutions 1. 2. 3. Fees due no later than later than 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 800 Source: Court's presentation on the basis of information prepared by the Agency.
• • • • • • 800 13 6 813 413 226 2 568 3 618 5 6 830 - 17 - 17 (ECU 1 000) 1995 10 150 299 3 210 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551
13. 3.97 I DE Official Journal of the European Communities C 81/31 USES EMEA 1.6.
The commercial accounting systems available on the market do not take into account the specificities of the Community financial rules.
Therefore, in 1995 the agencies published a call for tenders under a system corresponding to their needs.
Until the introduction of the new system, the Agency will work with the spread system.
Although this system may make subsequent changes to the accounting that would not be included in the accounting for budgetary operations, the system may make subsequent changes to the accounting for budgetary operations.
However, these changes are set out in the overall financial statements.
In this respect, all budgetary operations shall be documented.
In the initial period until the appointment of the home financial controller, the paying agency was required to ensure the proper functioning of the Agency.
Only in this way could the decision of the Member States to set up the Agency be implemented quickly.
On 3 July 1995................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
In December 1995, 75% of the payments made by the paying agency were settled.
Even if a large amount could only be cleared in 1996, the Agency achieved a satisfactory final result and, in difficult circumstances, did everything in its power.
That report shall be submitted to the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market in accordance with Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 (*).
The Court examined the annual accounts of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
Whereas, pursuant to Article 119 (2) (c) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2), the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office;
Whereas, pursuant to Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the Court of Auditors is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice (3), in accordance with Article 137 of that Regulation; whereas it is responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice; whereas, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to examine that invoice;
This is the report from the Office's first audit. 1.3.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995 in the framework of the Commission's contribution 1.5.
During the 1995 financial year, the Authority only paid ECU 6.8 million (68%) (i1).
OJ L 11, 14.1.1994, p. 33.
(3) In accordance with the provisions of Article 137 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, invoices relating to all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 29 March 1996, signed and forwarded to the Commission, the Budget Committee and the Court of Auditors.
This is the Court's accounts of 2 April 1996.
The tables attached to this report shall reproduce those accounts in summary form.
The Court considered that the Authority should have issued a recovery order for the entire budget (ECU 10,1 million) in order to be able to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 4,6 million).
During the financial year 1995 the Authority established an accounting system.
This is contrary to the internal Financial Regulation (Articles 4 (1) and 29 (1)).
Transfers and transfers of funds 1.7.
The appropriations carried over to 1996 represent 46% of the budget and mainly relate to computer equipment (Titles II and III of the budget).
In addition, the appropriations available were carried over from Title I (personal) to Title II (general expenditure) amounting to a total of ECU 2,529 million (25% of the budget).
The list shall be kept only in quantitative terms but not in terms of value.
It is therefore not possible to agree with the amounts entered in the Office's balance sheet.
The management system established by the Authority shall not ensure the adequate division of responsibilities or the proper implementation of the provisions on income, commitments and payments (authorised authorising officer, financial controller and accounting officer).
Currently, the office is located in the building of the Spanish Government.
However, there is no agreement for the use of this building.
In order to ensure its final establishment in the future, the Authority should clarify the need for accommodation in its services.
13. 3.97 AND DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/33 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 26 September 1996.
TABLE 1 TRANSMISSION TRANSMISSION FOR 31 DECEMBER 1995 '2 17 1 4 2 7 194 3 469 1487 15 3 275 1 879 6127 Accruals 15 Total liabilities 1487 6 127 169
Number C 81/36 p 5 in the Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 ANSWERS TO THE COMMISSION'S ADDITIVES 1.5.
The need for a recovery order was not aware of either the Commission or OHIM.
OHIM took note of this remark from the Court of Auditors and forced the recovery order for the entire contribution minus the reserve for the financial year 1996 to be issued without delay.
budgetary operations 1.6 The accounting system applied by OHIM now allows for subsequent changes in accounting;
During the period until the introduction of the Sincom2 system, developed by the Commission, OHIM has made every effort to provide additional security guarantees during the application of the current system.
Until then, OHIM has no choice but to expect the Commission's accounting system, which will be available before the end of the year, since the development of such a system entails a significant financial burden which the Authority itself cannot bear.
In 1995, the Authority's budget was adopted with a reserve of ECU 2 million required by Parliament with regard to the general budget of the MECU of 10.1.
The reserve was abolished in two stages: in October 1995: ECU 1 million, in November 1995 the balance in October 1995.
Of course, the temporary blocking of the measures had an impact on their use, in particular the measures provided for in Title I (Personal) because it was not certain that the measures would be effectively abolished.
OHIM could under no circumstances have taken a decision on the employment of workers unless the remuneration was provided by the end of the financial year.
Following the release of the reserves, measures have been taken to use the appropriations in the budget headings in which, due to deadlines for the procedures for budgetary commitments, it was still possible and in which there were real needs.
For this reason, the Authority has requested a transfer of the appropriations under Title I to Title II in order to in particular develop computer hardware^, which was particularly needed in the initial stage of the Authority's activities.
It should be recalled that OHIM started operations on 1 April 1996 and that more than 30,000 applications for trade marks have since been received, while the workload has been estimated at 15 000 applications for the entire financial year.
List 1.8. At the time of the review by the Court, OHIM had only received from the Commission the software for the management by the computer of the register of resources, which had just been installed.
Separation of tasks 1.9.
In reply to the reply to the Court of Auditors, it was clarified that that question refers to the order of signatures that must be followed in the framework of the commitment and payment procedures.
It is therefore not a mistake with regard to the liability of the authorising officer, the accounting officer and the financial controller.
Note, however, that the accounting officer first, and then the authorising officer, summarized the operation. · This approach had the advantage that, at the initial stage of the operation, when the manager was not yet in place, it was ensured that the funds were available before approval by the authorising officer.After OHIM now has a fund manager, the following order of signatures under the different budget documents can be observed: (1) the accounting officer of the funds, the authorising officer, the 3 financial controller, the 4 accounting officer.
Fixed assets 1.10.
There is an agreement (see copy in Annex) between the Minister for Industry of the Government of Spain
13. 3. 97 in OJ C 81/37, OJ C 81/37, and Commissioner for the Internal Market Vanni d'Archirafi. On the basis of this agreement, the Spanish authorities make the building (temporary office) available to the Authority free of charge to the Authority.
Under this agreement, the Spanish Government will take action to ensure the Office's final place of residence.
On 3 July 1996, the Spanish authorities decided on the site and the specifications for the tender for the construction of the building.
This specification will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 30 July of this year (an invitation to tender).
Following these recent developments, the Authority will take immediate action.
This report will be submitted to the Management Board of the European Training Foundation in accordance with Article 11 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 of 7 May 1990 0.
The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 11 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Director.
Whereas, in accordance with Article 11 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, it is also responsible, in accordance with Article 11 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, for drawing up and submitting an invoice (2), in accordance with the internal financial rules; whereas, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to examine that invoice;
This is a report from the Foundation's first study.
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards insofar as they apply to the Community context.
It carried out the accounting checks and applied other control procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The main observations of the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report.
(2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 11 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, as of 31 March 1996, Article 11 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, of all the Foundation's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 and signed by the Director of the Foundation and forwarded to the Commission, the Governing Council and the Court of Auditors.
The tables attached to this report include those financial recommendations in a summary form.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Accounting of budgetary operations 1.5.
This system and systematic handling through the paying agency may lead to the funds being exceeded.
Paying agency 1.6.
In 1995 the Foundation made all payments through the paying agency.
This is not in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Foundation, which provides for the application of this procedure only to certain types of expenditure.
In addition, these payments were delayed as the relevant documents were sent to the financial controller for approval to Brussels.
Orders 1.7. ^ The Foundation has awarded several out of ECU 0.4 million for the use of funds available at the end of the financial year.
However, it did not meet the conditions for public procurement, in particular in relation to price competition or performance (Articles 45 to 51 of the Financial Regulation for the Foundation).
Financial controller 1.8.
Given the current situation, the Foundation's internal control system could be improved by allocating the Foundation to the Commission's on-the-spot financial controller.
13. 3.97 AND DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/39 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 10 October 1996.
That Article shall enter into force on 31 December 31 31 31 December 31 31 31 December 31 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
3 398 Liabilities Fixed capital 1. Own capital 2. Revenue carried over Total 1. Appropriations carried over 1. Non-automatic 1994 35 184 219 319 2 481 2 800 72 63 135 11 3 165 (ECU 1 000) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 1985 2 127 77 0 77 195 4 533 Commission 3.4 Settlements of cash accounts 1. Debtors accounts Total TABLE 1. PAYMENT TABLE TABLE 1. CL 1566 TABLE ON 31 DECEMBER 1995 Total assets Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of information provided by the Foundation. * Transfers of funds Automatic transfers of funds 3 130 3 165 Total Liabilities Total 4 533 2. LIMITATION OF THE TIME 1. Λ VII Deposit accounts Total
A.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Balance sheet accounting - The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
Furthermore, it has played a key role in establishing a single system of budgetary and financial management in all departments.
Discussions are currently under way with the responsible Commission services to overcome any concerns expressed by the Court of Auditors by introducing a new budgetary management system which will enter into force on 1 January 1997.
It should be noted that none of the available budgetary resources has been exceeded during the period under review.
1.6 Management of advances It should be stressed that pre-financing has not been used for all purchases of equipment or for participation in real estate which constituted a significant part of the budget.
In addition, at present, the use of general pre-financing payments has been limited in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation and all accounting documents of the month in question are sent to the accounting officer in Brussels, respectively, within 10 and 20 of the following month.
On the one hand, the contracts discussed, closely related to the activities and projects covered by the Foundation's work programme, represent a very small part of the Foundation's activities, both in terms of quantity and budget.
On the other hand, it is true that the involvement of the competition that led to the conclusion of these agreements was informal.
This procedure was selected at that time mainly because of the urgency of the case.
In addition, the agreements in question aimed at organising conferences and seminars on behalf of and on behalf of the Foundation and under the strict control of the Foundation.
The corresponding budget was divided into two parts: a fixed part of the remuneration (less than ECU 12 000) and an operational part which the Foundation fixed in advance and reimbursed on the basis of supporting documents.
On the basis of these elements, the Foundation considered that the actual application of the agreement would not exceed ECU 12 000.
When it became clear at the beginning of 1996 that the Court of Auditors did not share this opinion, the system was abandoned.
The Foundation's accounting officer shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
That report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2400/96 of 7 May 1990 (J1).
The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
Pursuant to Article 13 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2410/90, the budget has been implemented under the supervision of the Executive Director.
Whereas the Court of Auditors is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice (2), in accordance with the internal financial rules provided for in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 0; whereas, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to verify that invoice;
The Court has carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted control standards, insofar as they apply to the Community context.
The Council carried out financial controls and applied other control procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and their legality and regularity are generally guaranteed.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency 1994 and 1995 Commission and Commission 1.5.
During the 1995 financial year, the Agency introduced only part of the budget-i1) OJ L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 4.
(2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 13 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 810/90, the invoice relating to all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 was drawn up on 20 June 1996, signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
That report was forwarded to the Court of Auditors on 29 June 1996.
The tables attached to this report provide summary financial statements.
The Court considers that, for the 1995 financial year, the Agency should have issued a recovery order of ECU 5.8 million for the fulfilment of the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (total of ECU 7 million); the excess over the year 1.6.
Title I (Personal expenditure) and Title II (current expenditure) of the budget (current expenditure) have found several budget overruns of the total amount of approximately ECU 0,4 million.
This amount, which cannot be entered in the 1995 budget, is entered on the asset side of the balance sheet in the trust account and must be entered in the budget for the financial year 1996 (infringement of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency Financial Regulation).
Paying agency 1.7.
Almost all payments to be paid under Title I and Title II of the budget have been paid through the paying agency. Almost all payments to be paid under Title I and Title II of the budget have been paid through the paying agency.
The use of this paying agency is incompatible with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation for the Agency, as the administrator of the pre-financing was the accounting officer, as well as the administrator of certain budgetary items.
Furthermore, the deadlines for the submission of supporting documents were not respected and the availability of the commitment appropriations was not taken into account.
This appears to be the main reason why the above quotas are exceeded.
Moves 1.8.
As at the end of the financial year 1994, at the end of 1995, a very large proportion of the available funds (ECU 7 million,... 57.2% of the total amount) were transferred.
Most transfers concerned Title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6,4 million u.90,3 % of the appropriations provided for in that Title).
A significant proportion of the appropriations carried over from 1994 to 1995 to ECU 8,5 million had to be cancelled (21% of the appropriations carried over).
No C 81/44 ΓΟΕ" Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3.97 Subsequent request from the financial controller 1.9.
Several requests for an obligation of ECU 0,5 million for compliance with financial control were submitted for financial control with regard to the east.
In these cases, the financial controller refused to confirm what the Administrative Board rejected.
The Court stresses the obligation to comply with the Financial Regulation, according to which, in accordance with Article 27 of the Financial Regulation of the Agency, in all activities likely to lead to expenditure, a request for compensation should be submitted in advance in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation; the allocation of tasks 1.10.
The division of tasks has not been carried out in the administrative department of the Agency.
Due to the lack of human resources in the field of accounting at the same time, the same person was an accountant, accountant, administrator and administrator of financial resources/instructor of certain budgetary items.
Accounting systems 1.11.
For the purposes of budgetary and general accounting, two independent systems, which are not interlinked, shall be used.
Moreover, the budgetary accounting system does not provide for any restriction in the event of an overrun of the available resources or resources.
Financial Controller 1.12.
The Management Board has appointed a financial controller for the Commission.
The Court considers it appropriate, on the basis of the current functioning of the Agency, to grant it financial control for the time it was adopted by the Court of Auditors on 28 October 1996 in Luxembourg. On behalf of the Court of Auditors, Mr Bernhard Fri EDMANN, President
13. 3.97 AND DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/45 Assets Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 2 Assets 2 Assets 2 Assets 2 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Appropriations 1 Appropriations carried over 1 Non-automatic assets 2 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 2 Assets 2 Assets 2 Assets 2 Assets 2 Assets 2 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 Appropriations 1 Assets carried over 1 Non-automatic assets 2. Appropriations 1 Appropriations carried over 2 Appropriations 812 193 1005 1 5 8 2 6 932 8 514 3 - 240 9 762 2 371 1844 4 215 989 5 997 6 986 0 778 1197 4 Assets 1 To be paid 2. Payment payment 75 850 to the Commission 3.V Appropriations 1 Bank accounts 1 Deposit accounts 1. For settlement of the Debtor 3 925 TABLE 1 Assets 1 Assets 1 ACCOUNT TO 31 December 1995 Total assets Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of information provided by the Agency.
Total liabilities 0 8 025 Short-term money 1. off-payments 0 9 762 Trust accounts 11979 V binding
1994 9 312 850 58 10 220 574 1 0 7 (ECU 1 000) 1995 6 219 5 740 362 12 321 2 896 202 1488 320 6 437 6 465 32 421 0 12 461 202 4140 37 1 791 1844 1 6 10 767 187 320 0 0 7 0 27 193 0 193
• The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
As early as 31 October 1994, the first budget of ECU 10.2 million was adopted.
As the decision on the Agency's seat was delayed, it was necessary to take particularly rapid action at the beginning of the Agency's activities.
With great commitment, projects were identified and commitments fulfilled before the end of the year, but for important reasons the implementation of commitments could not start before the end of 1994.
In 1995, the Agency had difficulties in implementing not only the 1994 budget but also the new budget of ECU 10,5 million in 1995, before the Agency's regular staff began their service.
Open posts at the Agency were announced in November 1994 and after a long competition with more than 7000 applications, the first selected candidates started working in the summer of 1995.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work programme and practically two budgets, but it had a very limited number of employees who took care of the task.
Nevertheless, the work has progressed and significant projects, such as the Dobris report and the revision of the 5th Environment Action Plan, were completed in 1995.
Five European thematic cooperation centres were set up and the construction of EIONET started.
On 1 January 1995, among 1 person, among 10 temporary staff, such as national experts and auxiliary staff, among the Agency's staff, the number of 22 temporary staff, of which the number of 10 temporary staff continued to be fixed as of 31 December 1995.
The Agency's administrative system was gradually expanding as the same open recruitment procedure was applied.
However, in 1995 the Agency did not have a way in which it was clearly unable to deal with the technical and financial aspects of the work.
As regards the financial side, in the first half of the year only one person had the opportunity to consider the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work programme.
In June 1995, the head of the administrative department began to work and at the beginning of 1996 the other staff of the financial and contract department joined.
The Agency has fulfilled its task, but, with regard to finances and budgets, certain errors have been made with regard to mandatory procedures.
Overshoot of appropriations Some budget lines have been exceeded.
This was due to the fact that the Agency's budgetary control system was not working satisfactorily, and, on the other hand, that some payments had not been booked, since the Agency's financial department was clearly occupied.
Therefore, the accounts found a discrepancy between the accounts and the payments made effectively, which took place on certain budget lines.
Since no accounts can be settled between the different budget lines after 1 January, these amounts must be included in the accounts for 1996, i.e. financed from the 1996 budget.
In 1996, the expenditure and resources available in Titles I and II (i.e. the 1995 problems) were carefully audited in order to avoid excess expenditure.
Failure to comply with the procedures (as requested by the financial controller) at the stage of the establishment of the Agency was prepared and started before the administrative procedures were clearly defined and the appropriate administrative structure was made available to monitor compliance with those procedures.
In some cases this has led to the commissioning and execution of the work, except for certain procedural rules.
In particular, the work has been commissioned without prior approval of the financial control in Brussels, which is a prerequisite for such operational expenditure.
This error was purely procedural and was due to the fact that work had to be done, but the necessary administrative structures had not yet been set up to ensure compliance with the rules laid down by Brussels.
A clear delegation of power to issue commands has been introduced and staff are informed of the procedural rules.
As for all public institutions, also for the Environment Agency, certain financial functions should be separate.
One of the basic principles is that obligations and payment orders should not be executed by the same person.
However, during the time of the construction of the agency in Copenhagen, the number of employees was low enough that this principle could not be respected.
This fact was rightly challenged by the Court of Auditors.
For the Environment Agency, the Agency's financial controller and the Commission are the same person based in Brussels.
This would make the work of the Agency significantly more difficult.
To get out of this dilemma is to set up a paying agency.
And m actually acts as a small reserve in cash, although the amounts in it are quite significant.
Instead of obtaining prior approval of the financial control, the Agency ordered the payment by sending a report of the transactions which the paying agency has carried out once a month, in order to obtain approval of the payment of the credit for the financial control at a later date.
On the one hand, it facilitates the work of the paying agency, but on the other hand it is a two-dimensional sword, because the internal control of the agency and the financial department must be able to meet this additional responsibility.
As a result, the Court of Auditors' reservations are understandable, but as long as the financial controller is based in Brussels, the Agency does not see, to this end, that the paying agency is not in a position to lodge a substantial claim. · As a result, the Agency has very much taken the recommendation of the Court of Auditors that the Commission should require the Agency to carry out a financial audit.The Environment Agency would welcome this step.
The computer-based accounting system of the Court of Auditors stresses the need for the Agency to establish a modern accounting system for both general accounting and budgetary control.
The EU financial system, which has been comprehensively combined, is crucial to avoiding the involvement of large financial and budgetary resources.
The Environment Agency wholeheartedly supports the Court of Auditors' conclusions.
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has always tried to find a solution to this problem.
This is happening in the same form for other EU agencies.
In 1996, the agencies issued a joint invitation to tender but failed, i.e. a satisfactory system was not found.
At the time when the Agency is able to use the new budgetary control system, Sincom 2.
The plans provide that it will be installed and ready to act in a timely manner in order to implement the budget in 1997.
Nevertheless, this soft budgetary control and other general accounting control will continue.
The Agency will continue to seek an appropriate solution to these problems and will seek to coordinate these work with other agencies.
13. 3.97 DE Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/49 Report on the annual accounts of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA), together with the Centre's replies (97IC 81/07) (period 1 November 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1 This report was submitted to the Management Board of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in accordance with Article 11 (11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 of 8 February 1993 n. 1.2.
The Court examined the annual accounts of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
Whereas, pursuant to Article 11 (8) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Director;
In accordance with Article 11 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 3294/94 of 22 December 1994 [3], that competent authority is also responsible for drawing up and submitting an invoice [4];
The Court of Auditors shall examine this invoice in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is the report on the first review of the Centre.
The Court carried out a check in accordance with generally accepted control standards insofar as they apply to the Community context.
He carried out checks,,,,,, and, and,,,,,,, and, and, and, and, and,, and, and,, and,,,, and,, and,, and,, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and,
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are generally guaranteed.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
For the financial year 1995 the Centre issued a recovery order for only 57% ( ECU 3 million) of the grant.
The Court considers that the Centre should have issued a recovery order for ECU 2,3 million (in total ECU 5.3 million) indicated in the balance sheet in order to comply with the commitments carried over to the financial year 1996 ( ECU 2.8 million).
Sending help to the Portuguese Government 1.6.
The amount of ECU 614 015 (including interest) made available by the Portuguese Government to the Centre to occupy its seat shall not be entered in the budget as revenue but only in the balance sheet.
Accounts for budgetary operations 1.7.
This may lead to measures being exceeded.
Paying agency 1.8.
In 1995 the Centre... (45%)...%...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The systematic use of the paying agency procedure is not in accordance with Article 43 of the Centre's Financial Regulation, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure.
In addition, the accounts of the expenditure were delayed as the documents had to be sent to the financial controller in Brussels.
In 1995, significant transfers were made to 1996, i.e. to ECU 2.8 million, equivalent to 52% of the Centre's budget.
Some of the appropriations carried over from 1994 to 1995 (a total of ECU 4,677 million) had to be cancelled ( ECU 0,368 million, i.e. 8% of the appropriations carried over).
Task division 1.10.
Financial controller 1.11.
Given the current situation, the internal control system could be improved by the allocation of the on-the-spot financial control at the Lux meeting held in Brussels on 28 October 1996. On behalf of the Court of Auditors, Mr Bernhard FRI EDMANN, President
13. 3.97 I DE VAT collection 0 2. Income from 681 (ECU 1 000) 1995 Liabilities from 1994 3. Cash Income 1 Bank accounts 3 049 0 1 3 050 0 2 350 4 2 000 2 162 0 7 566 Fixed capital 1. Own capital 1 Own capital 2 Income from 1 measures carried over 1 Non-automatic measures 2 2 2 Total payments 0 35 365-4 243 4 608 5 0 0 0 4 648 3 050 1294 4 344 1672 1063 2 735-99 388 0 388 7 566 Debtors 0 Total 681 3 967.
First reductions in remuneration in the short term V conditionality Total liabilities
2350 145 609 6 104 706 135 868 431 1 2 5 3 2 170 563 541 35 864 1440 Result to be transferred Source: Presentation by the Court on the basis of information supplied by the Centre. 157 4 608 4 765 35 · 35
13. 3.97 Differences between the EMCDDA in 1994 and 1995 (points 1.5 to 1.5 of the EMCDDA opinion).
The EMCDDA shares the view of the Court of Auditors that it would be more appropriate to issue a recovery order for all the appropriations on the balance sheet that have been transferred to the Commission and that the appropriate approach to the budget in 1996 was thus applied to the budget. (b) Government Portugal, which, within the meaning of Article 54 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and Article 82 of the implementing provisions of the same Regulation (in accordance with the spirit of Article 142 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities) of the EMCDDA, initially applied the advance payment procedure to the expenditure listed in Article 54 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and Article 82 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the same budget, in accordance with the spirit of Article 142 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.
The EMCDDA is aware, however, that it can only be a temporary system (based on Excel (EMCDDA)) and that it needs a more efficient accounting system.
In this context, decentralised agencies (including EMCDDA) with coordination of the European Training Foundation in Turin at the end of December 1995 published an invitation to tender to equip themselves with an integrated general accounting system and budgetary accounts.
The EMCDDA is developing a programming and control plan for the implementation of the budget and its work programme aimed at improving the use of the appropriations allocated and in particular the limitation of transfers to exceptional cases. (f) Allocation of tasks (point 1.10 of the Court of Auditors' observations) C Due to the very limited number of staff in 1994 and 1995, the EMCDDA was unable to fully ensure compliance with the principle of division of tasks, to which the Court pointed out.
The provisions of Article 16 of the Financial Regulation of the OEDT concerning the tasks of the authorising officer concerning the allocation of the tasks of the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer were fully complied with.
The EMCDDA is already making efforts to ensure that the different tasks to be carried out in the field are shared.
In this context, it shall take into account, as far as possible, the requirements notified by the Court of Auditors to determine to what extent the requirements for short-term staff are exercised by different persons in order to ensure that the administrative tasks referred to by the Court of Auditors (management of paying bodies, accounting, staff management or contracts) are carried out by different persons.
These proposals will be submitted to the EMCDDA's Management Board. g) Financial Controller (point 1.11 of the Court of Auditors' comments) The EMCDDA's Management Board, when adopting the EMCDDA's financial rules in June, published a negative decision on the transfer of the tasks of the financial controller to the EMCDDA's staff (in particular on the basis of the decision of the European Commission).
As the financial controller of the European Commission is also the financial controller of the EMCDDA, the Commission should also check whether it is possible for the other decentralised agencies to appoint a financial controller on the spot, taking into account the solution to this issue.
ECU price herausgegebenL + C" 101 sechsmonatige L + C" Microfiches notes (*) Γ) 595 no 30101 Supplement to the Official Journal (Februarys and public procurement) Calendar year 1997 Papermaking CD to 5thousand 800 and no more than 32 pages from 6.50 to 64 pages 13 no more than 64 pages Price fixing based on case BELGIUM/ BELGIUM Moniteur beige/ Belgian State Blad Rue de Louvain 40 chowal (Leuvenseweg) from 40owa42 Β ch Γ on 1000 Bruxelles/Bnjssel Tél.
(32 in 2) 552 22 11 Fax (32 w) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B więcim/ Brussel Tél.
(322.22) 538 51 69 Fax (322.02) 538 08 41 E Tochtermail: jean.de.lannoy@infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 B jean.de.lannoy@infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 Blanchel Bruxelles/Brussels Tél.
(322.2).................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 GERMANY Bundestablier Verlag Verlag Göte Straße 78e80 Postfach 10 05 34 Dblich 50667 Köln Tel.
(49) 20 29 y y y) 20 29 278 GREEECE/ ΕΛΛΑΛΑΛΑ G. C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR o) 105 64 Athens Tel.
(03.21) 331 41 80/1/2/3 Fax (30...1) 323 98 21 E-mail: elebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνές Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR-105 64 Α:τήνα Τηλ. Διεθνές Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR-105 64 Ατήνα Τηλ.
(232 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37, Etod28001 Madrid Tel.
(341.41) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (341.41) 575 39 98 E) mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: viiww.tsai.es/mprensa Bologna Oficial del Estado Trafalgar, 27...29 IRELAND Government Supplys Agency Publications Section 4 E.5 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel.
(353jnj) 661 31 11 Fax (353jnj) 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/ 1 Casella postale 552 1jn 50125 Firenze Tel.
(3939.55) 64 54 15 Fax (39.55) 64 12 57 E... mail: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/biblioVvetrina/licosa/tt1.htm GRANDUCHÉ DE LUXEM BOURG Messages du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen Lci2411 Luxembourg Tél.
(352) 40 10 20 Fax: (netto) 490 661 Ealysyiertmail: mdl@pt.lu Subscriptions: Messages Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L. 2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags. AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags.
53 161 334/340 Fax (43...1) 53 161 339 E. im: ausfuhr@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net: 81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional. Casa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ. im. a Codex Lisboa Tel.
(351 not applicable) 353 03 99 Fax (351 not applicable) 353 02 94/384 01 32 Distribuidora de Livros Bertrand Ld.° Rua das Terras dos Vales, 4 A Apartado 60037 P. 2701 Amadora Codex Tel.
495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (351...1) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemmlnen Kirjakauppa/Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoissaradi 39/joya esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN.00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
(358...) 121 41 Fax (358...) 121 44 35 E... mail: acatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB. tractorvägen 11 PO Box 200 S.22100Lund Tel./.../.../.../.../.../.../.../...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(46...46) 18 00 00 Fax (46...46) 18 01 25 E   Itmail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agence Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.
(44 ciuu) 873 9090 Fax (44 ciu (171) 873 8463 URL: www. tne. stations. office. co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Böndal Skólavortustig, 2 IS u101 Reykjavik Tel. ((354) 5515 650 Fax:17 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/ Söstioveien 18 Boxes 6512 Etterstad N. 06 Oslo Tel.
(47 out of 22) 97 45 00 Fax 47 out of 22 97 45 45 SCHWEIZ/ SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH out of 8035 Zurich Tel.: (47 out of 22) 97 45 45 SCHWEIZ/ SUISSE/ SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstrasse 85 CH out of 8035 Zurich Tel.: (47 out of 47 out of 22) 97 45 00 Fax: (47 out of 47 out of 22 97 45 45 SCHWEIZ/ SUISSE/ SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH out of 8035 Zurich Tel. (47 out of 47) 22 45 45 45 SCHWEIZ/ SUISSE/ SVIZZERA OSEC Stamfenbachstraße 85
(41 relevant41) 365 53 15 Fax (41  gloves) 365 54 11 E (Mail: urs. leimbacher@ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKÂ REPUBLIC NIS CR s-prodejna Konviktskâ 5. de 1113 57Praha1 Tel. E-mail: http://www.sec.ch CESKÂ REPUBLIC NIS CR.ch. prodejna Konviktskâ 5 j.
(42) 24 22 94 33 Fax (42) 24 22 94 33 E designate email address: nkposp@dec.nis.cz URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY.1509 Nicosia Tel.
44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (357stro2) 361 044 Estromail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hàz Margitsziget PO Box 475 HTIVA1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(36nd1)11 160611 16216 Fax (36d1) 302 50 35 He held: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel./.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 PLLSKA Ars Poland Krakowskie Sparctwo 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL. 00. owa Tel.
(48 counterparties) 26 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dùnya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad.
No: 469 TRw: 80050 Tünel: Istanbul Tel.: 469 TR. 80050 Tünel: Istanbul Tel.
(90 tenth weeks) 251 91 96 (90. 3112) 427 02 10 Fax (90. 212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress.. Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel.
(613/2012) 9417 53 61 Fax (61) na) 9419 71 54 CANADA Uniquement subscription/ Subscriptions only: Renouf Publishing Co. Ltd 1294 Algoma Road K1B 3W8 Ottawa, Ontario Tel.
(1 establishing a position on the position of the European Union on the position of the European Union, in particular as regards the position of the European Union on the position of the European Union, in particular as regards the position of the European Union on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, in particular on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union, and in particular on the position of the European Union, on the position of the European Union,
(81...3) 3234 69 21 Fax (81...3)ι 3234 69 15 E... mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi.japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146Sandton Tel.
(27...11) 883 37 37 Fax (27...11) 883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611... F Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) Email: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MÉXICO Mundi. opening Mexico, SA de CV RfoPânuco, 141 Delegation Cuauhtemo M.06500 México DF Tel.
553 56 58/ 60 Fax (52 different) 514 67 99 E jjj e-mail: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
Phyung HwaBldg 411. 2 Hap Jeong Dong, Mapo Ku 121 2220 Seoul Tél.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please contact the sales office E proposed by you E E E in your proposed locations in Madrid Tel. (34.E) 538 22 384 17 Fax (34.) 538 23 384 17 URL: www.boe.es 95 (Libras) / 15 (Suscripciones) 49 (Libros) / 14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR. 150000 Zagreb Tel.: (Suscripciones) 49 (Libros) / 14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR. 1 HR.010000 Zagreb Tel.: (Suscripciones) 15 (Suscripciones) 14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd.: (Suscripciones) 15 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR.
43 03 92 Fax (385) 44 40 59 ROMANIA Euromedia Str.
(40 a.m.) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax 40 will turn out to be 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technician Knlznica Nàmestie sloboda 19 SLO Slovensk1223 Bratislava 1 Tel.: + 44 44 01/614 06 64 Fax: + 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technician Knlznica Nàmestie sloboda 19 SLOcha223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(42 no 7) 53 18 364 Fax (42 no 7) 53 18 364 E in E in email: europ@tbb1. sltk. stuba. sk SLOVENIA Economic Vestnlk Zarozniska skacja d. d.
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 E setting up the URL: www.gvesfnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
546 14 23 Fax (972ono3) 546 14 42 Ealenmail: royil@netvision.net.il Submail.agent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 113131 Moscow Tel.: + 4. 11. 11. 11 11 Moscow Tel. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. + +... +.. +.. + +.. +.. +.. +.. +... +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.. +.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313 (27)06 - EN Page 1 of 5 Avis juridique important 31997Y0313 (27)06 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies Official Journal C 081, 13/03/1997 P. 0043 - 0048 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/06) (For the period from 1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1.
This report is added to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No efficiently of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accordance with the requirements of Article 13 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2710/90. His responsibility includes the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in accordance with the internal financial provisions set out in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
This report establishes the first audit of the Agency.
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
The Court carried out checks on the accounts and records and also applied such additional audit procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are presented in the second part of this report.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are related and the underlying operations were carried out, on the whole, in accordance with the rules concerning legality and regularity.
Main observations concerning the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 The Commission subsidies 1.5.
During the financial year 1995 the Agency used only part of the Commission provided for in the general budget (ECU 12 million, of which ECU 6.2 million was draw down).
It is the Court's opinion that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the financial year 1995 for the balance retaining due (ECU 5.8 million) in order to meet the commitments that were transported over to the financial year 1996 (totaling ECU 7 million).
Spend in excess of available commitments 1.6.
Several cases of expenditure in excess of available expenditures, in excess of approximately ECU 0,4 million, were found under Titles I (staff expenditure) and II (administrative expenditure) of the budget.
This http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313306 - EN Page 2 of 5 amount, which could not be charged to the budget for 1995, was entered on the assets side of the balance sheet in a settlement account, and had to be charged to the budget for the financial year 1996 (contravention of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Imprest account 1.7.
Most all payments charged to the budget under Titles I and II were made via an impression account.
The implementation of this account was not in accordance with Article 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, since the administrator of the affected accounts was, at the time, both the Accounting and the Authorizing Officer for certain budget headings.
Further, the demands for the submission of supporting documents were not met and the availability of approvals committed was not verified before payments were made.
This situation seems to be the basic cause of the cases of spending in excess of available adaptations pointed out above.
Appropriations carried forward 1.8.
At the end of the financial year 1995, as was already the case at the end of the financial year 1994, the percentage of commitments carried forward was very high in relation to the commitments available (ECU 7 million - 57.2 % of the total budget).
The majority of these carryovers concern title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6,4 million, representing 90,3 % of the acquisitions under this title).
A large share (ECU 1,8 million) of the subsidies carried over from 1994 to 1995, totaling ECU 8,5 million, had to be canceled (21 % of the subsidies carried over).
A posteriori referral to the Financial Controller 1.9.
Several proposals for the commitment of funds totaling ECU 0,5 million were submitted, a posteriori, to the Financial Controller for his approval.
In these cases, the Financial Controller withheld his improvement, but this repayment was overruled by the Management Board.
The Court wishes to imply the obligation to respect the Financial Regulation and to submit proposals for commitments in due form prior to 'any measure of a kind which might lead to expenditure from the budget wi Financial Regulation (Architectle 27 of the Agency's Financial Regulation) of the Court wishes to respect the obligation to respect the Financial Regulation and to submit proposals for commitments in due form prior to 'any measure of a kind which might lead to expenditure from the budget to expenditure (Architect 27 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Graduation separation 1.10.
The separation of duties within the administration of the Agency has not been observed.
Due to a shortage of staff in the financial accounting department, the same person was, at one and the same time, Account Officer, administrator of the impact accounts and Authorizing Officer for certain budget headings.
Accounting systems 1.11.
The budget accounting and general accounting are carried out on two independent and unconnected computer systems.
The budget accounting system is, moreover, not programmed to withdraw entries in the event of acceptances available, or acceptances committed, being exhausted.
The Financial Controller 1.12.
The Management Board approved the Commission's Financial Controller as their own Financial Controller.
The Court considers it would be able, in respect of the Agency's present mode of operation, to address a full-time Financial Controller for the Agency.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 28 October 1996. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y03133.06 - EN Page 3 of 5 For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIDMANN President > TABLE > > TABLE > > (1) OJ No L 120, 11. 5. 1990, p. 4.
(2) Contrary to the requirements of Article 13 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts for all revenue and expenditure of the Agency in respect of the financial year 1995 were not prepared until 20 June 1996, the date on which the accounts were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and sent to the Commission, to the Board of Management and to the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 28 June 1996.
The abridged version of these financial statements is presented in the tables listed to this report.
THE AGENCY'S REPLIES The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was adopted already on 31 October 1994.
Since the decision on where to locate the Agency had been served a fast start was needed.
Through a significant effect, projects could be identified and the budget committed before the end of the year, but for obvious reasons the execution of the commitments could barely start before the end of 1994.
This, in 1995 the Agency faced the dating task of execution, not only the budget from 1994 but also a new budget for 1995 of ECU 10,5 million, and this before the regular staff of the Agency had taken up duty.
The Vacan posts in the Agency were published in November 1994 and the selected candidates started coming on board in summer 1995 after a long selection procedure involving more than 7000 applications.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work programme and virtually two budgets to execute, but very limited staff for the task.
Despite this, work went ahead and in 1995 the Agency completed major projects, like the Dobris assessment, the review of the Fifth Environmental Action Plan.
Five European topic centre were established and the build-up of the EIONET advanced.
The build-up of the Agency progressed with regular staff increasing from 1 on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, for example national experts and helpful staff) to 22 on 31 December 1995, stilt supported by 10 temporary staff.
The Agency's administration has progressively developed since the same open procedure to recruitment was applied.
Nevertheless, it was clearly too understood in 1995 to become the procedural and financial aspects of the work.
On the finance side only one person was available to trade the financial, budget and contractual aspects of the work programme during the first hast of the year.
In June 1995 the Head of Administration took up duty, and only in the starting of 1996 did the rest of the finance and contract staff come on board.
The Agency rose to the challenge, but some mistakes of a procedural nature were made in the areas of finance and budget.
Obspending There was overspending on some budget lines.
The reason was, on the one http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
26/ 100/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313206 - EN Page 4 of 5 hand, that the Agency's budget monitoring system did not function in a satisfactory way and on the other hand some executed payments were not entered due to the fact that the Agency was seriously understood in the finance department.
As a consequence, when the accounts were closed, the decrepancy between the accounts and the payments actually made, shown up as overspending on some budget lines.
Since no adjustment between budget lines can be made after 1 January, this has to be booked on the 1996 accounts, i. e. be funded from the 1996 budget.
In 1996, the expenditures and the availability of alternatives in Titles I and II, which was where the problems occurred in 1995, were carefully monitored in order to avoid overspending.
Procedures overlooked (Saisine a posteriori) During the build-up of the Agency, a work programme was established and started beng executed before administrative procedures had been well established and an administration in place to monitor that procedures were followed.
In some cases this led to work being ordered and transported out without all the procedures being observed.
In particular, work was contracted without the Financial Controller in Brussels having given his visa which is a prerequisite for this kind of operational expenditure.
It was not a question of finances being wasted or that the finances were not there.
The mistake was procedural and reflected that work had to be done and the procedures to ensure that this was done according to Community rules were not yet in place.
Procedures are now in place to avoid similar problems.
A clear delegation of authorizing powers have been established and staff informed of the rules.
Separation functions In the financial framework of the Agency, as is the case in all public institutions, certain functions should be kept separate.
A basic principle is that the same person should not commit money and order payment.
However, during the period of establishment of the Agency in Copenhagen the number of staff in the Agency was so small that it was not possible to observe this principle.
This is correctly criticized by the Court of Auditors.
However, once the staffing of the Agency started to increase this was corrected and these functions have been rarely separate in the Agency since autumn 1995.
Extended use of impress accounts The normal procedure for committing and ordering payments in the EU-system is to have prior approval by the Financial Controller in practice all cases.
In the case of the Agency, the Agency Financial Controller is the same as the Commission's and located in Brussels.
To send all financial transactions to Brussels for improvement before they could actually be executed would be an optional executed procedure.
It would seriously obstruct the working of the Agency.
The way out of this dilemma is the impression account.
It works in principle as a petty-cash reserve although the amounts involved are important.
Instead of seeking prior approval from Financial Control, the Agency executes the payment and once a month the improved account is sent to the Financial Controller to have the ex post approval of the payments which have been made.
On the one hand this facilities the functioning of the Agency, but, on the other hand, it is a double-edged sword since the Agency's internal controls and the financial department must have the capacity to hand this additional responsibility.
This, the criticism by the Court of Auditors is understandable, but as long as as http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313[06] - EN Page 5 of 5 the Financial Controller is located in Brussels there is, in the Agency's view no alternative to an extensive use of the impress account.
It is therefore with great interest that the Agency has noted the recommendation by the Court of Auditors that the Financial Controller of the Commission should place a Financial Controller in the Agency.
The agency's gonna rot in that steppe.
Computerized financial system The Court of Auditors understands the need for the Agency to find an up-to-date computerized financial system which can integrate the accounting side with the budget monitoring side.
In the complex financial system of the European Union such a computerized system is crucial to avoid having to tie down a lot of resources in financial and budgety work.
The Agency supports entirely the conclusion by the Court of Auditors.
Since the beginner of 1995, the Agency has again and again tried to find a solution to this problem.
It is a problem which the European Environment Agency shares with the other EU Agencies.
In 1996, the Agencies launched a joint call for provides to find a solution but this call for leaders has not been successful, i.e. no satisfaction system has been found.
This, the Agency is at present pursuant to the possibility of using the new budget monitoring system Sincom 2. The plan is to have it installed and operational in time to execute the 1997 budget on the basis of this system.
There will still be one software for the budget monitoring system and another for the general ledger.
Nor will the impressive accounts be integrated in the software the Agency will continue to look for an efficient way of solving these problems and will endeavour to coordinate this work with the other Agencies.
Managed by the Publications Office http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
C 309/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Annual Report of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 2006 together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/05) Introduction of the CONTENTS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-225 PENS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 25 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
26 Agency replies..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/25 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) has been established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Agency's task is to set up an environmental monitoring network to provide the Commission, the Member States and the general public with relevant information on the state of the environment.
This information should in particular give the European Union and the Member States the opportunity to take environmental action and assess the effectiveness of these activities.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's tasks and tasks.
For information purposes, Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain the relevant information contained in the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2006.
3. This information on cohesion shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council in accordance with Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2), which refers to the Court, which shall present, in accordance with Article 185 (2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Agency's account.
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 [3] were drawn up by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Court, who... and provided an explanation of the consistency of the annual accounts, as well as of the legality and regularity of the accounts for the financial year 2006.
5. The Court carried out a review of its work in accordance with the Directives carried out financial audits and INTOSAI and the Code of Conduct and with the international professional bases and the work of IFAC controllers, provided that they are applied in the Community context.
The objective of this programme was to ensure that the annual accounts were sufficiently reliable and that the basic accounts were correct and correct.
6.The Court has valid grounds, in particular, as a result of a statement of assurance on the assurance of life as a result of the life experience of the life of the Agency's annual financial statements, in particular in the life of the Agency's annual financial reports, in particular as of 31 December 2006.The Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, has provided, in particular, a statement of assurance on the life of the life of the Agency's annual financial statements in the light of the life of the life of the financial statements provided by the Agency, in particular, the life of the financial statements of 31 December 2006 and the assurance of the financial statements of the Agency and the financial statements provided by the Agency in respect of the life of the financial statements of the Agency in respect of the life of the financial statements of the financial statements of the Agency in respect of the financial statements of the European Union and the financial statements of 31 December 2006.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's observations on cohesion.
COMMENTS 7. □ 30% of the budgetary commitments for the financial year had to be carried over to the financial year.
Operational expenditure (Title III and assigned revenue) has been allocated to more than half of the budget.
In the last two months of 2006, the Agency made commitments of EUR 1.3 million of EUR 1.3 million, but in 2007 the Agency made payments of EUR 1.3 million in the last two months of 2007.
On the basis of the selection of selections (4) of the sample selections selected, they do not indicate that they do not indicate an important exception in 2007 indicating the next important exception in 2007.
Therefore, the principle of budgetary fairness was not applied strictly.
8. The subcontractor not only carried out ex ante checks but also managed access rights to the electronic invoicing system, which is in breach of the principle of division of tasks.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 27 September 2007.
OJ L 120, 11.5.1990. (2) OJ L 120, 11.5.1990.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 29 May 2007 and received by the Court on 3 July 2007.
(4) Sample value: approximately EUR 500 000.
C 309/26 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community competences resulting from the Treaty (Council Regulation (EEC) No 3090/90 of 7 May 1990) Governance structure 1. Governing Board Ordered by the Agency in 2006 measures (data for 2005) Main products and services in 2006 Environment policy Objectives Final Budget measures: Notification of the Prelude (PRospective Environmental analysis of Land Use Development in Europe). Community environment policy aims to achieve a high level of protection taking into account the different conditions of the different regions of the Community.
It is based on prevention and prevention, on the basis of prevention of environmental dominance in the first place in its origin, and on the principle of "polluter pays" (...).
When preparing its environmental policy, the Community shall take into account identifiable scientific and technical data.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The use of the European Environment Information and Observation Network and the provision of objective, reliable and comparable information at European level at Community level at Community and Member State level at Community level, at Community level and at Community and Member State level at Member State and at Community and European level, the information necessary for the development and implementation of appropriate and effective environmental measures; the composition of EUR 37.1 million (EUR 32.1 million), (Article 174 of the Treaty) and cooperation on data harmonisation.
Source: The Agency's data and the Member States on the basis of which they collect, collect and evaluate data on environmental status and reporting on the quality of the environment and environmental impacts in the territory of the Community and data on:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
To this end, the Economic and Social Committee may rely on international international international technological research........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Council initiative organized seminars. More information on the European environment information on international programmes; 3. Consultative Forum: One representative of the Member States; W. W. W. W.u.e. every five years More information on the state, development and environmental prospects; 4. The Scientific Forum consists of W. Environment in particular: in 42 (42) W. More information on the development of environmental forecasting procedures and methods for assessing environmental costs and the exchange of information on technologies that can be used to benefit from environmental protection; 5. External audit: European Court of Auditors.
To develop methods for assessing the environment and the cost of providing the environment, the protection and the protection of the environment and the environment.
Table 1 European Environment Agency (Copenhagen) 4 - one representative of the Member States, update of the EPER.
Two representatives of the Commission, a Community grant: 75% ((84%).
Commission established.
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(2) Recovery of real estate taxes in the period 2000-2004 (EUR 905 000).
C 309/2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANSWERS AGENTURY H in 2007 largely involves... extraordinary events in 2006, which led us to postpone interim payments in thematic centres until services were provided in a satisfactory manner.
Until 1 January each year licence agreements were required to maintain the Continuuit, and the time needed to establish and negotiate the costs and costs and time-consuming new, complex works.
The Agency will continue to seek to reduce participation in these activities.
The risks associated with the situation described were assessed by the management and risk reduction checks were introduced.
Other risks shall be considered acceptable.
This will be re-evaluated in the context of the review of the sensitive tasks to be carried out in mid-2007.
C 309/40 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 report on the implementation of the annual accounts of the European Agency for Reconstruction for the financial year 2006 together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/08) CONTENTS OF THE 2006 CONTENTS................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-241 ENFORCEMENT.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 41 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
42 The Agency's replies...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19.12.2007 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 309/41 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96[41], as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 756/2006 of 28 November 2006 [2].
The Agency, set up in 2000, had a first task of managing the European Union's support programmes in Kosovo.
To this end, its mandate for Serbia and Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been extended.
The Agency shall prepare programmes to support institutional development and support the responsible State to support the development of the market economy and the basic infrastructure in civil society.
As a general rule, the mandate of the Agency shall expire on 31 December 2008.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain, for information purposes, the relevant information contained in the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2006.
MEETING.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Commission asks the Court to draw up an invoice for the agency to be reviewed by the Court under Article 5 (2) of the Treaty on the European Community.
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 [4] were drawn up by its Director pursuant to Article 8 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5) and were forwarded to the Court.
The Agency's annual report for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 shall be invoiced in all material respects.
The following comments do not call into question the Court's assessment of the compatibility.
COMMENTS 7. The budget implementation rate was satisfactory.
However, the Agency will be noted on the scale of still binding measures, which will require special monitoring of the Agency's programmes, given that its mandate will be withdrawn by the end of 2008.
8.With regard to the accounting system and the internal control system, the Court noted an improvement in relation to previous years, in particular with regard to the monitoring of measures managed by external entities and the application of procurement procedures.
F implementation by the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER Prōsident (1) OJ L 204, 14.8.1996, p. 1.
OJ L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18.
OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1.
(4) The accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 6 July 2007.
OJ L 306, 7.12.2000, p. 7.
C 309/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Areas of Community competence resulting from the Treaty of 5 December 2000 (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000) Structure of the management of the appropriations transferred to the Agency (information from 2005) Products and services in 2006 The Community will implement the activities of economic, financial and technical cooperation with third countries in the framework of its capacity.
These actions promote the activities of the Member States and are in line with the Community's development policies.
Objectives Scope of tasks Administrative Board Final budget After operational headquarters (most important events): (Article 181a) Operational headquarters in Belgrade, Pristina, Podgorica and Skopje with a wide range of administrative autonomy.
In connection with Community assistance, the Agency manages the main assistance programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (HYROM). The Agency manages the main assistance programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (HYROM) and manages the regional aid programmes, which are countries, territorial units which are managed by the United Nations, regional, regional and local associations, NGOs and NGOs, social partners, local organisations, cooperatives, cooperatives, organisations, associations, foundations and NGOs.
108 (114) the positions provided for in the employment plan; (iii) support for the development of the market economy; continuation of investment in basic infrastructure; environmental actions; other actions: (iv) support for social development and development of civil society.
Contract staff responsible for discharge: 29 (28) Posts, 26 (26) of which are filled.
External audit External staff: 164 (170) Posts, posts occupied: 157 (162).
Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Court of Auditors. SERBIA: (a) draft legislation: public administration reform; (b) supply of supplies material; (c) completion of an advanced DNA laboratory; (d) reform and judicial equipment; (e) reform of the health programme; (f) recruitment for work through loans from the Revolving Credit Fund; (g) rehabilitation of local infrastructure; (l) reform of the statistical office; (m) support for direct investment; (n) support of recruitment groups, including minorities and agriculture; (j) supply of new materials for the new frontier infrastructure reform in Hungary and Croatia; (j) reform of local infrastructure in Hungary and Croatia; (j) reform of statistical administration; (m) support of direct direct investment; (n) support for project groups; (n) support of economic development in (n) support of state-of-the-art urban administration; (j) reform of new administrations in Hungary and Croatia.
Euro Euro) 19.12.2007 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 309/43 Community competence under the Treaty (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure of 5 December 2000. Structure of the management of the appropriations delegated to the Agency (2005 data) Products and services in 2006 Source: Agency data.
(b) the central IT database in the Ministry of the Interior; (c) the support of the Personnel Management Agency; (d) the construction of the new airport in Podgorita and the new transport law; (e) the separation/restructuring of the public enterprises electrified; (f) the construction of the Environment Agency; (g) business management advice; (h) the support of the training centre in the field of justice; and (i) the reform of the criminal system; (j) support the development of strategies in the field of agriculture and local development.
C 309/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community 24 795 20 200 Title I Staff 18540 195 187 1236 495 385 109 19035 1 1295 187 1745 47 6755 4705 465 507 1597 Revenue Expenditure incurred in the previous year of expenditure for the financial year entered in the budget of 797 187 1236 495 385 109 19035 1 4702 17502 187 6755 187 6755 4705 465 507 1597 Revenue for the financial year Expenditure entered in the budget of the European Union I budget in the final budget of the revenue for the previous financial year Revenue available in budget I for the financial year 175 (from financial year and in previous years) Other revenue p.m.
The accumulated revenue and payments will be determined in accordance with the cashier-based invoicing method. (EUR 1 000)
C 309/46 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency undertakes to implement a very accelerated procedure for the implementation of aid schemes.
The last allocation of aid to the Agency amounted to EUR 250 million in 2006, to be allocated over a period of three years, i.e. until 2009.
During the first six months of 2007, the Agency adopted EUR 185 million of aid, representing 74% of the annual budget.
The final balance to be allocated at the end of the mandate is therefore expected to be small.
OJ C 311/42, OJ of the European Union 5.12.2008 Annual Report of the European Agency for Reconstruction for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/07) CONTENTS...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 43 OVERVIEW.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 43 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
45 Agency replies...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/43 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96 (9), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1756/2006 of 28 November 2006 [2].
Its task has also been extended to Serbia and Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Agency shall organise programmes to support institutional and institutional development, to support the development of the market economy and basic infrastructure and to support civil society.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's tasks and tasks.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain, for information purposes, the relevant information contained in the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2007.
Where the European Parliament and the Council are not required to investigate infringements of the provisions of this Regulation, the Council and the Council may, on a proposal from the Commission, within two months of the date of entry into force of this Regulation within two months of the date of entry into force of this Regulation, decide whether, and within two months of the date of entry into force of this Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council may decide whether, within two months of the date of entry into force of this Regulation and within two months of the entry into force of this Regulation, they may decide not to disclose the provisions of this Regulation within two months of the date of entry into force of this Regulation, where the Council does not infringe the provisions of this Regulation referred to in Articles 5 (1) and 5 (1) of this Regulation. 5 of this Regulation.
It shall be based on the drawing up of the accounts of the agencies to be carried out by the Court under Article 24 of the Treaty establishing the European Community by Article 24 of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, European Atomic Energy Community.
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 [4] were drawn up by its Director and forwarded to the Court, which indicated that the accounts were drawn up and were in accordance with the law, law and order.
5. The Court has carried out an assessment of compliance with international auditing standards (ISSAI) and international professional bases (IFAC) (where they are applied in the Community context) in order to establish compliance with international auditing standards (IFAC) (where they are applied in the Community context).
This procedure has been planned and set up to obtain adequate safeguards to ensure that the annual accounts are clear and that the financial bases are correct and correct.
OJ L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18.
OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1.
(4) The accounts were drawn up on 10 July 2008 and received by the Court on 16 July 2008.
(6) ISSAI is the international standards of the highest quality audit bodies; IFAC is the International Federation of Accountants of IFAC (International Federation of Economic Entrepreneurs).
6. The Court bases itself on the following statement of consistency: the fullness of the accounts The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended on 31 December 2007 shall be... in all material respects overdue.
The following observations do not undermine the Court's assessment.
COMMENTS (7) The Agency's 2007 budget was EUR 250,2 million compared to EUR 268,8 million in the previous year.
Although the level of budgetary expenditure at the end of the year was satisfactory, the Agency at this stage used budgetary appropriations which were not used (EUR 453 million) for operational actions, i.e. EUR 163 million which were not yet committed, and EUR 290 million for existing commitments.
Since the Agency's competences are multiannual, they should be partially distinguished from 2008 (the last year of the Agency's operation).
8. the Agency's mandate expires on 31 December 2008.
On 24 April 2008, the European Commission adopted a decision on the implementation of the programmes managed by the Agency so far and on 11 June 2008 adopted a memo containing instructions and guidelines for the dissemination of programming and contractual documents.
This note does not cover the agency's agency's position in the field of security controls.
In order to ensure the effective management of the programme and the agency's position, the Agency and the Commission must sign an agreement approved by the Agency's Management Board.
This shall facilitate the liquefaction of those items and ensure that they are correctly entered in the Agency's annual accounts.
C 311/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 9. The cumulative limit of EUR 180 million as set out in the emission forecast as of 31 December 2007 reflected in part the amount for advance payments of EUR 180 million received by the Commission by the Agency on the basis of public procurement contracts and grant agreements.
These elements should also be under the authority of the European Commission upon expiry of the mandate of the Agency.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 18 September 2008.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/45 Areas of Community competence resulting from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure 1.The management agency of 2007 (data for 2006) Activities and services in 2007 The Community shall carry out economic, financial and technical cooperation activities with third countries within its competence.
These measures promote the activities of the Member States and are compatible with Community development policies.
Objectives Scope of tasks Final budget: following operational visits (most important changes): Kosovo: (Article 181a) Administration, strengthening of the institutions and the rule of law, directing all measures necessary for the implementation of Community aid, at the request of the Commission appointed.
These include operational T wigkei-b) provision of equipment and support to police and border guards, support for border guards for minors, development and strengthening of civil society, i.e. 163 (171), c) inclusion, first of all, of civil society organisations in the field of health care, including the Agency, which manages the main assistance programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro) and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The beneficiaries include countries, territorial units managed by the United Nations, territorial units, regional and local authorities, public and semi-public organisations, social partners, charities, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organisations.
One representative of each Member State, two representatives of the Commission and one observer of the European Investment Bank.
250,2 million euro (EUR 268,8 million) a) socio-conomic assistance for the development of minorities; the Council of the Court of Auditors; 27 of which (26); occupied: 4th discharge: 264 (273) a) preparation of the provisions on public administration reform; Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessalonics) Other posts: (f) privatisation of public utilities; of which 165 (164) positions: 154 (157) g) Sustainable forest and floch development; administrative action: 101 (102) d) support of privatisation and training for enterprises§; (b) assistance to civil society and the media; SERBIA:
MONTENEGRO: (a) supporting the integration of refugees and internally displaced persons and supporting civil society organisations; (b) supporting environmental management; (c) the improvement of road infrastructure in the areas of export; (d) supporting the reform of public administration: police and prison; (e) the separation/reorganization of public electricity undertakings; the energy efficiency strategy; (f) management advice for businesses; (g) the system for the identification and registration of animals and the management of fisheries resources.
(d) supporting civil society organisations and the community; (e) supporting the development of zones of industrial problems; waste water treatment at community level; waste management and health prevention risk; (f) supporting the planning of the social assistance instrument; (g) supporting the implementation of professional standards in the field of management and health protection.
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 311/47 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Revenue Allocation of expenditure Commission subsidy 24 559 p.m.
23 960 4 743 Title I Staff 18702178691754 330 832 187 0 133 54 18889 17889 178891773 330 886 36 6364 4768 4770 469 1125 Other revenue Title II Administration 5857 4768 4299 469 1089 507 0 471 Assigned revenue 23 642 5 461 Title III Operating expenditure 13727 3031 120 13607 0 678806 276086 276017239217 3417 692533 2323 236292 452824 3417 Total 250 201 251 104386 2566470 219591406 1921 679500 276086 236776 439217 3507 717786 301754 258735 453623 5428 Revenue from the previous year Expenditure from the budget of the budget of the budget for the financial year 2005 4 for the financial year 4 of the financial year 435 453623 5428 Expenditure from previous year
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its own accounts.
The revenue and payments obtained shall be adjusted according to the spot accounting method.
2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013 - 2013
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method.
Table 4 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) ANWEND Verm ) Verm induziertegens including as of 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006. Fixed assets Fixed assets Long-term long-term current claims Pre-financing short-term claims Cash and cash short-term claims.............. ) ) )
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/49 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCIES 7. the end of 2007 due to the multi-annual nature of the CARDS programmes, the Agency could continue to fulfil the commitments and payments of the annual programmes for the years 2004, 2005 and 2006.
For CARDS, the deadline for budgetary commitments is 2009 and the deadline for payment for 2010.
The costs of these three programmes, which have not yet been closed, amounted to EUR 1.8 billion.
The fact that EUR 163 million (9%) is still reserved and that the total amount of EUR 453 million (25%) will be paid three years before the CARDS deadline shows a very high exposure rate.
The Court commended the Agency's results in Special Report No 5/2007 (OJ C 285, 27.11.2007, p. 1).
8. The Agency shall do everything in its power to successfully pass through this process.
Its aim is to reach an agreement with the various EU institutions that those who do not want to communicate with the other EU institutions benefit from.
The Agency shall also contact the Commission in order to formally regulate the disposal of resources and shall submit the results to the Management Board for approval.
C 311/20 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Annual Report of the European Aviation Safety Agency for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/04) CONTENTS................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 21 Granting a grant..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 21 COMMENTS...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
23 Replies to the Agency...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/21 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2002.
The main task of the Agency is to maintain a high level of civil aviation safety, to ensure the proper development of civil aviation, to develop certification specifications and to issue certificates for aviation products.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's tasks and tasks.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain, for information purposes, the relevant information contained in the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2007.
Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2) (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2) (the amendment) refers to the Agency's accounts, which the Court must implement, in accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 [3] were drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 49 of Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and forwarded to the Court and forwarded to the Court, which provides explanations on the extent to which the annual accounts comply with the principles and are legal and legal.
5. The Court has carried out an assessment of compliance with the International Standards of First Budgetary Control (ISSAI) and the International Professional Standards (IFAC) (IFAC) (IFAC) (IFAC) (If) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv)) (iv) (if) (iv) (if) (iv) (if) (if) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii)) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (
OJ L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 30 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
(4) ISSAI is the international standards of the highest level audit bodies; IFAC is the International Federation of Accountants (International Federation of Economic Entrepreneurs).
6. The Court grants a reasonable basis....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget was 72.0 million euro compared to 66.0 million euro in the previous year.
The budget of the Agency shall be financed by remuneration and fees for issuing or amending certificates or certificates by the Agency and by the Commission's contribution.
8. The 2007 establishment plan provided for 467 posts for temporary staff, an increase of 139 posts against the 2006 establishment plan.
Since staff expenditure did not cover actual staff expenditure, the Agency decided to reduce the number of staff employed and agreed with the Commission to reduce the number of posts to 342, of which 333 at the end of the year.
However, the establishment plan has not been adapted accordingly.
The Agency should seek to determine the appropriateness of the expenditure plans submitted for approval by the budgetary authority.
9. In accordance with the new IPR Regulation [5], the Agency, in force from 1 June 2007, implemented measures in Hiehe to cover the potential costs of granting authorisations or certificates.
However, this amount was too high, as it also covers the areas for which it was imposed under the old rules.
(5) Commission Regulation (EC) No 593/2007 of 31 May 2007 (OJ L 59, 31.1.2007, p. 1).'
C 311/22 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 10. In the case of the procurement procedure, the situation of the tenderers was unclear due to the lack of clear and complete information on the award criteria and on the one hand on the one hand, and due to the method of financial valuation on the other hand.
In three other cases (1) a limited procedure was carried out after the call for declarations of interest, although the total value of the services to be provided exceeded the threshold from which the open procedure should be initiated.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 24 and 25 September 2008.
Court of Auditors Court of Auditors Court of Auditors Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Pr Auditors (1) Insufficient total value: EUR 2.5 million for a period of four years.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311 shall not be prohibited from applying the European Union rules to products and services based on the Treaty and applicable to the products and services of the Common Transport Policy.The objectives to be pursued by the Agency 1. The Board of Directors shall be composed of one representative per Member State and one representative of the Commission; it shall establish an advisory body of interested parties.
Final budget: Opinions: The Council, acting by qualified majority, may decide to what extent and to what extent appropriate rules should be adopted on maritime and air transport; maintaining a common, high level of security in civil aviation in Europe; and maintaining and developing civil aviation security.
(Article 80 of the Treaty) International cooperation: Source: Agency data.
Erwägungen The development of certification specifications, including airworthiness codes, acceptable conformity certification methods, as well as any guidelines for the application of Community policies; 2) The Executive Director shall direct the Agency and be appointed by the Governing Board on a proposal from the Commission.
55,8 (33.2) million euro (65%), Community aid: 26,5 (31.4) Mil-17 2777/75 amendments to certificates: specifications (15) and acceptable methods and instructions (2).
The contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany (Ministry of Federal Transport) and the City of K (Ministry of Federal Transport) is EUR 0.3 (1.2 million).
In this respect, particular attention should be paid to changes in working arrangements with the Interstate Committee on Civil Aviation (USA) and JCAB (Japan); in this respect attention should be paid to changes in working arrangements with the Interstate Committee on Civil Aviation (USA) and JCAB (Japan); during inspections for the control of standardisation in the Member States; 4. external audit 467 (328) Temporary posts in the establishment plan; decisions on approval on 31 December 2006: the verification of the necessary tests in companies.
European technical specifications: 198 Court of Auditors.
Additional type certificates: 879 total staff: 362 (309) of which: operating: 277 (227), administrative activity: 57 (57), operating activity: 28 (25).
C 311/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned revenue Assigned
836 14 865 326 Assigned revenue resulting from revenue and salaries collected p.m.
14 865 326 0 326 14 865 0 500 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assigned revenue Other assigned revenue 836 Total 72 045 85 281 72 045 84 996 50 402 35 094 1 414 19 252 16 985 2 267 Revenue expenditure in the final budget Note: in view of the rounding of the amount may vary.
Source: Agency data.
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its own accounts.
3. European Aviation Safety Agency ( Aviation Safety Agency) (hereinafter "the "European Aviation Safety Agency')') European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter "the "European Aviation Safety Agency') (hereinafter "European Aviation Safety Agency") is hereby appointed "the "European Aviation Safety Agency") to provide a "European Aviation Safety Agency" (hereinafter "the "European Aviation Safety Agency") with "European Aviation Safety Agency" (hereinafter "the " Aviation Safety Agency") " (hereinafter "the European Aviation Safety Agency") and "the European Aviation Safety Agency") " (hereinafter "European Aviation Safety Safety Agency") and "European Safety Agency" (hereinafter "European Aviation Safety Safety Agency") " (hereinafter "the Agency") "the Agency") " (hereinafter "") " (hereinafter "the Agency") "") " (hereinafter "") "") " (hereinafter "the Agency")")") " (hereinafter "")") " (hereinafter " (hereinafter "") "") "") "" (hereinafter "the "the Agency") " (hereinafter") "") " ( "") "") " (the") " and "") "the") "") " " s " s "" " s " s " ( " s " s " s " ( " " s "") "the " s " s " ( " " s " " s " " " s " " " " s " " " s " " " " " " s "") " s " "") " " " " " ( " s " ( " " " s " s " " s " " " ") " " " "") " s " " " " " " " " "") " " s " " s " " s " s " " s " " " " " " " " " " " " " " s " s " " " " " " " " " ( " s " " " " " " " " " " " s " " " " " " " " "") "") " " " " " "") " " " " " " " "") " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " s " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " "") " " " " " " "") " "") "") " " "") " " " "") " " " " " "") " " " " " "") " " " " " " " "
Table 4 The European Aviation Safety Agency (K Table)... (K...) we entered as of 31 December 2007 and as of 31 December 2006 (EUR 1 000) 2006... 1 719 0 13 881 24 056 39 924 639 30 663 31... 8 622 3 029 593 8 622 Fixed assets and fixed assets Fixed assets in circulation... 1 522 Assets... 6 and 3 0 Current assets Detention assets 0... 820 36 659... 797 44 618 45 415 14 880 822 6 of 880 2007 4 542 029 593 Fixed assets in respect of fixed assets holding fixed assets at the end of the year... 9 0 Assets in respect of holding at the end of the year. 1 542 Agency data.
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method.
C 311/26 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCIES 8. During the first two years of the implementation of the Regulation, the Agency's revenue was not sufficient to cover the estimated total costs.
Therefore, the Agency has decided, in case of emergency, to limit its attitudes.
The same is reflected in the staff policy plan 2008-2010 agreed with the Commission.
9. Old and new rules were applied in 2007 in the initial phase.
The calculation of assigned revenue and remuneration shall be in accordance with Article 64 (5) of basic Regulation ((EC) No 216/2008) which provides that revenue and fees, including revenue obtained in 2007, constitute assigned revenue.
The basic Regulation does not provide that animals taken under that Regulation should not be excluded.
The exact calculation method was submitted to the Budget Committee of the Governing Board (28 May 2008).
10. The Agency is fully aware of the need to comply closely with the Commission's public procurement rules.
The Commission will pay particular attention to informing potential tenderers of the award criteria and their assessment.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 305/55 Annual Report of the European Maritime Safety Agency for the financial year 2006 together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/10) CONTENTS of the 2007 PACKAGING................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 HAZARD...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 COMMENTS.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Agency's replies..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Point 56 56 56 58 61
C 309/56 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 [1].
The tasks of the Agency shall include the implementation of a high level of maritime safety, the increase of pollution caused by ships, the scientific and technical assistance of the Member States and the Commission, the monitoring of the application of Community rules and the assessment of their effectiveness.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's tasks and tasks.
In order to ensure the availability of the trans-European trans-European trans-European trans-European network network network and trans-European trans-European network network network and trans-European trans-European network network network trans-European trans-European network network trans-European network and trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network network and trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network trans-European network and trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network network trans-European network network and trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network and trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network and trans-European network trans-European network and trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network and trans-European network trans-European network network and trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network and trans-European network trans-European network network trans- network and trans network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network network and trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans-European network trans- and trans- network trans- network trans-European network trans-European network and trans-European network trans- and trans-
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were drawn up by the Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and forwarded to the Court, which explained that the accounts were in accordance with law, law and order.
5. The Court has examined, in accordance with the directives, the financial control and obligations and the INTOSAI Code of Conduct, as well as the international professional base, as well as the financial control of IFAC, insofar as they are applied in the Community context.
OJ L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 27 June 2007.
6. The Court shall determine the appropriate basis for the following declaration of compliance: the Court of Auditors' annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ending 31 December 2006 shall be outstanding in all material respects.
COMMENTS 7. More than 43% of payments were cancelled at the end of 2006.
Moreover, in the last quarter of the year, the rise in the rise in the budget of the budget was not fully respected.
8. In drawing up the budget and the establishment plan, no action has been taken on the planning of employment, and therefore, due to the inadequate planning of employment (5) and the inadequate presentation of the budget (6), no action has been taken on the planning of employment.
9. Legal obligations were taken before the relevant commitments were made (7).
Some enterprises provided for 100% of pre-financing, which is not in line with the principle of cost-effectiveness of the budget (8).
(4) More than 35 measures were granted in 2006.
(5) The lack of adoption of recruitment objectives led to the adoption of financial measures which were reduced by EUR 1.2 million in budget line 1100 (main) (main) (main).
(6) The budget In relation to the budgetary clearances for payments for subsequent financial years for budgetary commitments (Article 31 (2) (c) of the Agency's Financial Regulation) the payments for subsequent years (see Article 31 (2) (c) of the Agency's Financial Regulation) are included.
- Yeah. - Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
(8) Article 67 of the Financial Regulation (Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23 December 2002).
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309 European Union. 10. The inventory management system shows weaknesses in the identification of the presence of all controversy.
On; on the basis of records this is not possible, this is what is not included in the system.
C 309, C of 3 December 2004 OJ C 339 of 3 December 2006 OJ C 339, 13 December 2006 OJ C 339, 13 December 2006 OJ C 339, 13 December 2006 OJ C 373, 30.12.2006, p. 3 2006, OJ C 373, 30.12.2006, p. 1.OJ C 373, 30.12.2006, p. 1.OJ C 394, 30.12.2006, p. 1.OJ C 373, 30.12.2006, p. 1.OJ C 373, 30.12.2006, p. 1.OJ C 373, 30.12.2006, p. 1.OJ C 373, 13.12.2007, p. 1. OJ C 373, 13.12.2007, p. 1. OJ C 373, 13.12.2007, p. 1. OJ C 373, 13.12.2007, p. 1.
th th th h h h h h h h h th h h h h h th h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
H a a a a h a s a a h a h a a a s h a h a s h a s h a a s h a h a h h a s a h a h a s h a s a h a s h h a a h h a h a h h h h a h h a a s h h a h a s s h a s h h a h a s h h a s h a h h a s h h a h a s a h a h a h a h a h h a h a s h h a s h h h a s h h a s s h a s h a s a h a h h h h a h a s a h a h h h a h a h h a h a h a h a h h a h h a s h h a h a h a h h h h a a h a a h a s a a h a h a h a s a h a h a h h a h h a h a h a a h a h a s h h a h a h h a h h a h h a h a h a a h a h h h a h a h h a h a h h h a h a s h a h h h h h a h a h a h h a h a h h h a h a h a h a h h a h h h h a h a h h a h a h a h h h h h a h h a h h a h h a h h a s h h a h h h a h a s h h h h h a h h h h a h h h h a h h a h a h h h a h h a h a h a h a h h a h a h h h a h a h h h h h h a h a h h h a h h h h h h a h a h h h h a h a h h h h h a h h h a h h h h h h a h a h h h h h h a h h h a h h a h h h a h a h h h h a h h h h h h h h h h h h h a h h a h a h h h h h h h a h h h h h a h a h h h h h h h h h a h h h h h a h h h h h h h h
Total staff: 131 (100), monitoring the functioning of the Community port State control system, which may include visits to Member States; one representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four representatives of the economic sectors concerned, without voting rights.
, m, m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m m m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m m m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m m, m m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m m, m, m m m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m m, m m, m, m, m m, m m, m, m m m m, m, m m, m, m m, m, m, m, m, m, m m m, m, m m, m, m, m, m m m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m, m m m m, m, m m, m m, m, m, m, m m, m, m, m m, m, m, m, m, m m, m m, m, m, m m m, m, m m, m, m m, m, m m, m, m m, m, m, m, m m, m, m m, m m, m, m m m m, m m, m, m, m
Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Arguments on Member States' requests for support.
4. Discharge 41 (27), because of other tasks: 7 (8).
Human resources as at 31 December 2006: ← sea fries: 7. 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/59 Origin of revenue Own resources Own resources Allocation of Community expenditure 44 738 32 030 Titlel I Staff (NGM) 13 459 2 972 12 705 2 550 10 387 1 944 664 606 2 408 422 62 99 33 333 2 out of 483 85 Revenues miscellaneous 0 362. VE 28 3108 28 2 31 44 738 44 738 19 033 0,00 0 11 638 0 23 969 0 9 per 2 out of 16 669 12 105 19 499 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 44 738 32 392 VE Total CE 34 287 0 1 270 1 494 310 484 Revenues from final budget for the financial year 2006 for 2006 own at 31 December 2006.
GM: Miscellaneous measures (bonds do not have to comply with commitments).
PA: payments under differentiated appropriations.
Title II Operational expenditure (NDA) Title III Operational expenditure (GM) Table 2 European Maritime Safety Agency... Implementation of the budget for the financial year 2006 for 0... Source: Agency data... The data presented by the Agency in the Agency's financial statements are presented in the following table.
C 309-06 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) - for financing (Lissbon) for financing for financing for funding for finance for finance for finance (Lissbon) - View for the financial result for the financial years 2006 and 2005-06-06 19.12.2007 Enterprise for funding. Other operating expenditure Staff expenditure Other administrative expenditure for operating expenditure (1) Total (a) 24 716 678 25 394 9 616 3 for 2006 3 548 14 151 27 551.2157 0 0 0 0 0 309 2157 (1 000 euro) 2005 15 666 6 099 151 2 042 2 925 11 217 439 0 3.3 435 Total (b) 435 0435 (b) 717 957 0 (c = a) Costs related to financial transactions (e).
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) for 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 for the purpose of the European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon).
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/61 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 7.
In this area, the Agency has tendered for four expenditures on transport........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................and................................and....................and......and..............................................................................................and................................and...............................................................and....................and.....
At the end of this process, two companies decided to withdraw their offers at the last minute and, therefore, only two companies could be granted.
This meant cancellation of payments in a large surplus at the end of the year.
8. The move of the agency from Br 98/70ssel to Lisbon in 2006 had an impact on the budget, which was difficult to predict.
9. procedures to avoid obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising out of obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising out of obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising out of obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from liabilities arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from obligations arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from obligations arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from obligations arising from obligations arising from liabilities from liabilities arising from liabilities from liabilities arising from liabilities from liabilities arising from liabilities from liabilities arising from obligations arising from liabilities arising from from from liabilities arising from from from from obligations arising from obligations arising from from from liabilities arising from from from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from liabilities from obligations arising from liabilities arising from obligations arising from from from obligations arising from liabilities from liabilities arising from liabilities arising from from liabilities from liabilities
The pre-financing conditions will be reviewed in accordance with the Court's observations.
10. The updating of the old stock management system by ABAC Assets in June 2007 allows the Court to solve the problems.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311 folglich Financial statements of the European Maritime Safety Agency for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/09) for the financial year 2007..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Point 58 58 58 60 63
C 311 shall not apply where it does not apply, nor is it possible to limit or limit the risks associated with exposure to radiation or to ionising radiation, except where the risks are not or may be associated with exposure to ionising radiation or ionising radiation, or where it is not related to exposure to ionising radiation or ionising radiation, it may be related to exposure to ionising radiation or to ionising radiation or to exposure to ionising radiation or to exposure to ionising radiation.
The Agency's tasks include ensuring a high level of maritime safety, reducing ship pollution, technical support to the Member States and the Commission and monitoring the application of Community legislation and assessing its effectiveness.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 shall contain, for information purposes, the relevant information contained in the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2007.
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 [3] were drawn up by the Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and forwarded to the Court and presented to the Court, which it explains.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 11 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
COMMENTS The Agency's 2007 budget was EUR 48.2 million compared to EUR 4.7 million in the previous year.
The Agency's budget shall be financed mainly by grants from the European Commission.
The procedures for drawing up the budget were not strict enough.
This involves a large number of measures (5), a flawed presentation of the budget (6) and an unlikely change in the source of funding for pollution control measures (7).
8. Legal obligations have been taken before the corresponding commitments have been carried out (8).
(5) More than 32 measures in 2007
6. In the case of differentiated appropriations, the budget should include information on payments due under commitments under previous financial years for the following financial years (Article 31 (2) (c) of the Agency's Financial Regulation) (Article 31 (2) (c) of the Financial Regulation).
(7) From mid-June to December, EUR 25 million of the EUR 25 million of the appropriations to cover environmental pollution was authorised by the household as cost-covering (C1) not acceptable (C1) for assigned revenue (R0).
(8) Three estimates of a total of EUR 208 000.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/59 9. As regards the recruitment procedures requested, the selection criteria and the required minimum point were not established before the start of the evaluation process.
Members of the Staff Committee have never been invited by staff to participate in recruitment procedures.
Such an approach did not allow for transparent and non-discriminatory procedures.
The European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions of the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, and the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European, and the European Atomic Energy Community of the European Atomic Energy Community and the European, and the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, and the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, and the European, and the European, European Atomic Energy and the European, and the European, and European Atomic, and the European, and the European Atomic and the European, of the European, The European, of the European, The Financial Atomic Atomic and Financial, of the European Atomic and European Atomic and European Atomic and European, Financial Financial Financial Financial, of the European, European, Financial, Financial, of the European, The European, Financial, of the European Economic and Financial Financial Atomic and the European Atomic and Financial, of the European, Financial Financial Financial and Social, of the European, the European, of the European, Financial, and the European, European, European, of and, the European, Financial, of the European, and the European,, and Financial Financial Financial, of the European, European, and Financial, and Financial Financial, and European, of the European, Financial, and, of the European Economic and the European, Financial Economic and the European, and Financial, Financial Committee of the Financial Financial
The development and operation of the required information systems; in the majority of Member States' requests for assistance and assistance.Employees: 13 (9)Employees and national experts, including representatives of individual Member States, four representatives of the Commission and four representatives of the sectors concerned, who do not have the right to vote.
Entfällt Launching the opportunities of marine support services.
3/2012 Support from the Commission and the Member States for the identification and tracking of illegal discharges; (3) the external audit of the Court of Auditors.
It has nothing to do with the fact that it has nothing to do with what could mean that nothing that could mean that it has nothing to do with what could have happened to it has nothing to do with what could have happened to it, and that it could have happened, that it had nothing to do with what could have happened to it, and that it has nothing to do with what could have happened, and that it had nothing to do with it.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 318/61 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of Community expenditure C 318/61 Revenue collected 48 249 37 387 Title I Staff (NGM) 15 320 3 180 11 999 3 149 11 805 1 881 194 1 267 3 321 31 664 245 419 606 523 83 Other revenue 157 collected for 40649 29 749 48 249 249 28132 0 43 280 0 19 295 0 32 982 141 1617 10 454 4 969 13 806 0 0 Total 48 249 37 544 54 FE Total 1 603 1 603 1 270 768 502 expenditure in the final budget of the financial year in the final budget for the previous year Revenue entered in the final budget I in the previous budget for Title II (i) Title III Operating expenditure (GM) NGM: Non-differentiated appropriations ( commitment appropriations correspond to payment orders).
PA: payments under differentiated appropriations.
Title III appropriation is intended only to cover the re-use of revenue (EUR 101 000) and assigned revenue (Phare excluding EUR 40 403).
The revenue collected and payments are cancelled according to the cash accounting method. according to the designated cash payment. Move cancelled payments cancelled (EUR 1 000)
C 311/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) on the economic performance for the financial years 2007 and 2006 5.12.2008 Operational expenditure Operational expenditure Operational expenditure Staff and administrative expenditure Operational expenditure Total expenditure 2007 33 801 1 111 34 912 10 791 3 252 14 842 292 2 422 5 669 (EUR 1 000) 2006 24 716 678 25 394 9 616 236 3 548 14 151 27 551 2 157 Total (b) Economic result of the year (c = a expenditure) B) Source: Agency information.
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its own accounts.
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) as at 31 December 2007 and as at 31 December 2006 (EUR 1 000) 55 523 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 as at 31 December 2007, 5 028 7 185 as at 2 157 5 028 Fixed assets Fixed assets and fixed assets Fixed assets and 55 55 550 523, 2 549 270 11 633 17 330 and 330 12 111 12 301 5 028 7 as at 31 December 2007, 2 157 5 028 Fixed assets, 2 157 5 028 Fixed assets, 2 157 5 028 Fixed assets, 3 and 697 Fixed assets, 2 5 5 5 028 Fixed assets, 2 550 Fixed assets, 2 2 2 and 5, 4, 2 5, 5, 5 5, 6, 697, 5 5, 4 5 669 10 697, 697 Source: Agency information.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/63 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency confirms the observations of the Court of Auditors.
The Agency shall continue its activities to improve planning and monitoring.
Particular attention shall be paid to the forecasts and the schedule of payments.
The appropriations needed in 2007 are in line with the 10% threshold in line with the Financial Regulation.
On 20 March 2007, on a proposal from the Commission, the Management Board decided to, uh, charge pollution compensation as assigned revenue, but on 21.11.2007 decided not to recognise those measures as such.
8. Measures to avoid the emergence of minorities at local level shall be interpreted in a fully consistent manner.
These factors are training and communication.
9. In response to the Court of Auditors' observations, measures have been taken to ensure that the selection criteria and the minimum number of points required are determined at a later stage of the selection procedure.
In the light of the forthcoming adoption of new implementing rules for the recruitment of temporary staff, the Agency will take into account the further observations of the Court of Auditors on the procedure for the recruitment procedures.
, y y y y y y y y y th ethial, the year years years, y the year the years years y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y years y y y year y the year year y the year the year the European Centre for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), provided by the replies of the Foundation 10 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products y y y y (AQQ), yeth y y y y years y y the European Commissions (As of the Ey-Qs (Ayy y of the EQs EQ), y (QQQ) Ey and Ey-Q)
23 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies 29 Report on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies 35 Report on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies 41 EN 2 (Continued overleaf) Report on the financial statements of the Translation Centre of the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Fincial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies 47 (Fincial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies 47
Notice No 97/C 393/09 97/C 393/10 Contents (continued) Report on the financial statements of the Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO-Angers) (Fincial years 1995 and 1996), together with the office's replies 52 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies.................
58 Note to readers (see page 3 of the cover) EN
EntrepreneurshipΕΝ Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/1 (Information) COURT OF AUDITORS REPORT on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop calonica), accompanid by the replies of the Centre (97/C 393/01) CONTENTS THE FINANCIAL STATEM ENTS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCAL TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YOUR 1996AL AUDITION INTRODUCTION Background Scope of the audit Financial data) concerning budget implementation of Dies
C 393/2 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 THE FINANCIAL STANDINGS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONALTRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is added to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 12 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (a) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1945/93 (2).
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In accordance with Article 18 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
This liability included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Articles 65, 67 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3).
The Court of Auditors is required within the meaning of Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community to examine these financial statements.
3. The Court undertook its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context, and, accordingly, carried out such tests of the accounting cycles and such other audit procedures as the Court denied necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996'are responsible and the underlying transactions are, as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was l established by the Council Regulation EEC No 337/75 {) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of promoting vocational training at Community level.
Cedefop communications in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Thessaloniki in 1995.
6. The same Regulation defines its role as that of assisting 'the Commission in fostering, at Community level, the promotion and development of vocational and in-service training', of contributing 'to the implementation of a common vocational training policy', and specifically encouraging 'the exchange of information and the comparison of expertise'.
Its main tasks in the field of vocational training are 'to compile documentation, to introspective to the development and coordination of research, to dispose of useful documentation and information, to encourage and support initiatives to facilitate a coordinated approach (specifically in respect of the approach of standards and the mutual recognition of certificates) and to provide a Forum for all those concerned'.
Scope of the audit 7. The Court carried out a financial audit of the 1996 accounts and has reviewed the Centre's decisions concerning its temporal and permanent premises and staff situation.
Financial data 8. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Centre.
Available replies for the financial year 1996 calculated to ECU 14,8 million.
Commitments entered into gave rise to ECU 11,4 million in payments and ECU 2,1 million in carry-over to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 1,3 million having been cancelled.
Applications carried over from the previous financial year gave rise to ECU 4.2 million in payments and ECU 0.6 million in cancellations.
Table 3 of this report gives an analysis of the cancellation of the approximations for 1996 as well as of those carried over from 1995.
Observations concerning budget implementation Separation of duties 9. The Centre has put in place adequate procedures for the separation of duties of authority officer, accounting officer and influence holder (5).
Imprest account 10. A high proportion (in 1996 74 %, including salaries) of payments continue to be made prior to approval by the Financial" Controller.
Last year (5) the Court recommended that the use of the.imprest account be limited to ongoing or small expenses, where' the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
A Management Board decision defining which kind of expenses may be paid thrnnph the innrest account has been established and came into force on 1 January 1997.
Transfers of funds to be used 11. The value of transfers of funds between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 891 600 (6% of the initial budget), down from ECU 922 000 in 1995.
29. 12.97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/3 12. Following consultations with and the approval of the different services in the Commission (DG IX, DG XIX and DG XX), the Centre transferred ECU 30 000 from budget line 117 6 'Other services and work sent out for translation and typing' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 0 'Auxiliaries', and ECU 40,000 from budget line 1 0 0 0 'Basic premises' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 1 2 'Local agents'.
These new budget lines were created by the Centre.
The Court acknowledged the reasons for making these transfers, but notes that they are contrary to paragraph 4 (a) of Article 21 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 which states: 'applications may be transferred only to budget headings for which the statement of expenditure has approved approvals or carried a token entry'.
The same budget lines are also included in the 1997 budget with approval of the budget Authority.
Carry-over and cancellations of commitments 13. The volume of commitments carried over has decreased in 1996.
Nearly 77 % of final approaches for 1996 were paid out in 1996 as compared with 61 % in 1995.
The percentage of commitments made and carried over to 1997'was 14% (28% in 1995).
The percentage of cancellations was 9 % comparison with 10 % in 1995.
Table 4 shows the carry-overs from the 1996 initial budget by title and their subject use.
Observations concerning the revenue and expenditure account and the balance sheet Revenue 14. The EU subsidy for the Centre for 1996 was ECU 14 625 000.
The Centre actually requested and received ECU 14 410 000.
15. In 1996, for the first time Norway and Iceland paid the Centre ECU 9 6 1 3 5 as a contribution for their participation in the work programme.
Expenditure 16. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 stands for that contracts may be made by direct agreement where the contract involves an amount not exceeding the limit of ECU 12 000.
In the case of at least 17 studies contracts and five fixed assets purchases, contracts over that limit were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of the Regulation, however all payments were approved by the Financial Controller.
17. The result of a study of fails in the submission of work by contractors for 1996 shown that 55 % of the contractors did. not respect the contractual deadline.
None of the minutes of management meetings contained any evidence of a review of the performance of contractors in meeting contract cuts.
Balance sheet 18. The Centre made an up-to-date inventory list as foreseen in Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (s).
Fixed assets of ECU 1 443 431 recorded in the 1996 balance sheet represents the historical cost of materials and furniture.
19· At the year end, cash balances selected by. the Centre were ECU 4.1 million, down from ECU 5.9 million in 1995.
The Centre is again taking responsibility for managing large cash balances.
The Court recommends the Centre make its quarterly drawing from the Commission on the basis of its actual cash needs.
20. The balance sheet includes an amount of ECU 483 308 relative to 'VAT to recover', of which ECU 251 434 relate to the year 1995 but not yet recovered due to the move to Thessaloniki.
The Court asks the Centre to do the necessary to recover this amount as soon as possible.
With regard to the 'VAT to recover for 1996', the Centre is recommended to explain to the responsible tax authorities every detail related' to this procedure to avoid funds being cancelled or optional gifts in recovery.
Audit of the Centre's premises'and staff situation Temporary premises 21. As the Court observed last year (8), the Centre had to invest ECU 120,000 to fit out the premises to make the temporary building functional and'ready for use'.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the Centre 'explained that these costs were involved to improve the conditions for efficient functioning of the Centre', but was unable to explain who was involved to bear these costs.
Premises 22. The Centre and the Greek State signed on 22 June 1995, a basic agreement regarding the construction of the permanent building.
According to this agreement, the Centre will pay to the Greek State ECU 6 879 750 in four equal installations of ECU 1 719 937.
"Two were paid on 1 September 1995 and 1 September 1996"
This third installation has to be approved by the budgety Authority and the last installation will be paid when the building is handed" over.
23. If appropriate is given by the budgety Authority before 1 September 1997, the Centre will have paid to the Greek' State ECU 5 159 811 for the construction of the permanent building.
The construction of the building was planned to communication on 30 March 1997.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the tendering procedure, which is managed by the Greek authorities, was not yet completed nor were any contracts signed.
As a consequence, no financial data or budget related to this investment was available for audit.
Staff 24. In 1996, the staff complement table authorized 81 posts (permanent and temporal positions), of which: 25 A, 11 LA, 15 B, 27 C and 3 D. At the time of the audit (May 1997), 78 persons were actually working in.
Thessaloniki, of which: 60 officials and temporary officials (25 A/LA, 10 B, 23 C and 2 D), 7 national experts, 5 local agents, 3 auxiliarias, 2 interims and 1'stagiaire'.
25. Another three persons are working at Cedefop's office in Brussels, one person is followed to Eurostat for a cooperative project, three persons we're still in Berlin, This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors and 13 Novembers are on special leave (CCP) and one person has been for many months.
Many new members of staff have been recruited during 1996.
26. The Court has been informed of an investigation by the Greek tax authorities concerning, among others, tax and social security payments for local staff put at the disposition of Cedefop by a company in Thessaloniki.
Conclusion 27. In the case of at least 17 studies contracts and five fixed-asset purchases, contracts over the limit of ECU 12000 were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (see paragraph 16).
28. The Centre once again holds large cash balances.
This situation should be avoided by making quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of actual cash needs (see paragraph 19).
29. The Centre is recommended to make sure that the work concerning the permanent premises is progressing in conformity with the contract (see paragraph 23). in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President (!)
OJL39, 13.2.1975, p.1.
(2) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993, p. 11.
(3) OJ L 164, 24. 6. 1976, p. 1.
(4) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993, p. 15.
(5) Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1995 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop Regieren Thessaloniki).
29. 12.97 I EN. Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/5 Fixed assets 1. Furniture Current assets Fixed capital 1. Stocks 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Advances 4.VAT to recover 5. Expenditure to be charged Cash accounts 1. Bank account 2. Improved account Sums t o b e recovered Assets 1996 1 4 4 4 4 4 7 66 8 483 294 3 151 882 29 ■ 1995 941 7 10 9 251 1962 5 360 504 16 Liabilities 1. Own capital 2. Balance for the financial year Current liabilities 1. Salary deductions 2. Other liabilities Sums to be recovered Approached over Payments in progress Sums to be collected 1996 1450 1623 82 654 133 2 615 2 664 (in de electu 1 2lect 730.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE Sheet AT 31 DECLARATION BALANCE BER de 1996 9 060
Total expenditure (b)
29. 12.97 ΓΕΝ Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/7 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure not provided for Total Definitive 7 839 3 008 3 974 14 821 Payments 6 225 (79.42) 2 667.
(88.65) 2 492 (62.71) 11384 (76.81) Carry-overs 510 (6.5) 258 (8.59) 1 383 (34.8) 2 151 (1.42) Canceled 1 104 (14.08) 83 (2.76) 99 (2.49) 1286 (86) Available 1287 864 2 664 10 4 825 (*) 1213 (94.32) 757 (87.52) 2 229 (83.67) 10 (100,00) 4 209 (87.23) Canceled 74 (5.68) 107 (12.38) 435 (16) 0 (0,00) 616 (12.77) TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996
1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 already ju jujooy 1996 year 1996 jojjjjj już już CARRY-OVERS FROM THE 1996 INITIAL BUDGET Staff Administrative expenditure Operational expenditure Carry-over from 1996 509 8 3 258 0 4 383 122 Carry-over as percentage of initial budget 6.5 8,59 34,8 14.52 Carry-overs paid out 1. to 31.3, 97 254 4 0 5 168 2 5 5 574 599 997 258 (in ECU) Percentage of 1996 carry-over used by 31.97 49,89 65,04 41,54 46,36 expenditure total Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop.
2 151 048 (in ECU 1000)
C 393/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRADE The nature of the observations of the Court of Auditors maces it possible for the Management Board of the Centre to react in a directmanner. EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 The nature of the observations of the Court of Auditors maces it possible for the Management Board of the Centre to react in a directmanner.
The Board will follow the structure of the Court's observations and conclusions.
The numbering of the annotated paragraphs correspond to that used in the Court's report.
12. The Centre thanks the Court for the understanding show for the indicated transfers, which were necessary for smooth functioning in the Greek context and points out the exceptional nature of these operations which will not recur under normal circumstances.
16. Concerning the procedure to call for the purposes the following points should be taken into account: a) Some ongoing contracts are based on earlier calls for interest and for tender.
In the case of the documentary network, for which contracts are mostly above ECU 12 000, these were signed in most cases with the same specialized institutions as in.previous years.
A high degree of continuity is needed in this work and a yearly call for ends with the possibility of informal changes in contracts would be very difficult and, due to the need for training and a period of introduction, inefficiencies.
Nevertheless the performance of the contracts is carefully appreciated and a call for contracts (on the basis of the call for interest recently made by the"Centre) will be launched in cases where it is considered that this performance is not satisfied. (b) Contracts for preparing new monographs preparing the vocational education and training systems in the Member States (or for amending existing ones) are subject to the useful rules, i.e. a restricted invitation to tender is organised.
In the case of the monographs, this list is drawn up following consultation with members of the Management Board.
An exception to this rule was made during 1995 and 1996 in relation to monographs concerning the new Member States and the EEA countries, when it was thought more appropriate to take the decision directly following consultation with members of the Management Board.
As planned, the Centre launched a general call for an expression of interest for participation in networks and the performance of study contracts.
This was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities (C 214 of 16 July 1997) and the results of this call are now being processed.
17. Delays in complete transactions in relations to contracts in many cases derive from defective administrative procedures, specifically the failure of contracts to forward in time the necessary invoices for payment.
Delays were also involved sometimes in signing contracts, allowing work on them to begin only some months after the date initially planned which had knock-on effects.
In other cases appeals were due to the need for intense and time-consuming discussion between the contractor and Cedefop on the basis of the contractor's. Draft report.
In cases in which the contracting institution may be co-financing the activity itself, or enabling some funding from another source, Cedefop cannot always determine the timetable.
This is particularly so, when the price that Cedefop is paying is lower than the market might dance for the work involved.
Nevertheless, Cedefop will try to avoid failures.
In the case of unreasonable causes the Centre indicates to the contractors that these imply serious disadvantages for them, as far as the prospects for future cooperation are concerned.
The new list of interested persons/institutions, which will be the result of the recent call for expression of interest, should enable the options available to the Centre for the future award of contracts and therefore make it easier to insert that contracts and their institutions therefore strictly with the rules and timetable laid down.
Business-like approach will be maintained.
19. The Management Board notes the improvements in 1996 and considers that further progress is possible.
It will intensely its effects to that end.
The Centre has improved its procedure by adding to every quarterly drawing from the Commission given a detailed statement with respect to the current supply of means of payment and the total payments expected during the subject four months.
The difference between these shows the balance of the real demand and, as a result, a permanent optional cash balance will be avoid.
20. The Centre immediately initiated action after the audit of the Court of Auditors and is pressing for recovery.
The accounting records for recalling from the German financial authorities the value-added tax (VAT) paid in 1995 and 1996 by the Centre have been subject.
The Centre has made contact with the responsible tax authorities in Greece and has been informed in detail on the procedure and appropriate preparation of the records for appropriate value-adde tax
29. 12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/9 (VAT) paid in previous years.
In the mean time, the records-concerning the financial years 1995 and 1996 have been prepared and forwarded to the authorities.
21. The Centre draws to mind that. the quickly recovered temporal premises are not an optimally· solution (e.g. the available surface area is only +/- one third the size of the future new building),. to new needs area after Cedefop's relocation (particulally, investment in the infrastructure for electronic equipment),.e.g. the initial agreement nor the Greek law is clear on who should bear such costs.
Legal advice confirmed the uncertainty.
The Centre had to make modifications to run operations efficiently.
The Centre recognizes that it would have been better to make arrangements beforehand on any additional investment.
The owner has taken note of these additional investments made by Cedefop and has shown a generic approach in new issues (e. g. extra meeting facilities).
The Centre also will try to receive compensation in the setstlements at the end of the present rental contract.
23. The Centre agrees that the preparation time was very long, but is convinced that matters will now proceed quickly.
The calendar for the coming period served by the Greek authorities is as follows: Calendar with main events and dates for Cedefop's new building Selection of the leader of the call for tender in the second round of tips Implementation of the infrastructure work Foundation stone laid by Mr Pangalos, Foreign Affairs Minister Signing of the contract Estimated total time for completing the work Estimated completion of the project The Centre expects that the budget authority will lift the reservation in the 1997 budget and that the Centre will be able to complete with its contractual obligations vis-à-vis the Greek Government.
Hopefully, the progress will be subtle enough to pay the third installation before the end of 1997.
This would also be of importance because in the budget proposal of 1998 there is no request for another installation.
24 not 25. There are several new staff members registered and several persons working in the Centre on different contracts on top of the table of posts.
The social measures related to the transfer came to an end (May 1997) and the Management Board will asses the staff situation at the end of 1997.
30 July 1997 In progress 6 September 1997 30 October 1997 460 calendar days 10 May 1999 at the latest 26. The expectations are that the results of this investigation will not have results for the Centre.
27. As explained, a new extensive call for interest has been understood with success.
28. This situation has been improving over the last years and this trend Hopefully willconune in 1997.
29. The Centre did its utmost, and will continue to do so, to ensure that it will have a high-quality new building and to obtain good value for good money.
The cost of the new building could be less than the initial estimates.
The prospects are positive (see paragraph 23).
- C 393/10 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Found Found Found Founding), incorporated by the replies of the Foundation (97/C 393/02)
29. 12.97 [~~ SUPPLYN~1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/11 THE FINANCIAL STATES OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is added to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (l) as amended by Article 1 (4) of Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 (2).
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In accordance with Article 1 (16) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (1.2.4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Administrative Board.
Assessment of environmental and environmental effects and environmental effects in the context of environmental and environmental effects, including environmental and environmental effects, including environmental and environmental impacts, including environmental and environmental, in particular with regard to health and health, the environment, environment and the environment, and the environment, in particular the environment, health, safety and environmental impacts, environmental and environmental impacts, including safety and environment, including the environment and environment, including environmental, health and environment, in relation to the environment, environment, the environment and safety, including the environment, the environment and the environment, in particular with regard to the environment, environment and the environment, in particular with regard to the environment and the environment, environment and the environment, including the environment and the environment, including in relation to the environment and the environment and the environment, including in particular with regard to the environment, the environment and the environment, and the environment, and the environment, in particular with regard to the environment and the environment, in relation to the environment and in particular with regard to the environment, the environment, the environment and the environment.
3. The Court understood its audit in accordance with generally accepted international audit standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context and, accordingly, carried out such tests of the accounting records and such other procedures as the Court Deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996 are Reliable and the underlying transactions are, taken as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Foundation for the Improvement in Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (5) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of contributing 'to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions through action designed to increase and disseminate knowledge of this development'.
The Dublin Foundation recommended operations in 1976.
Scope of the audit 6. The Court of Auditors has examined the accounts and financial management of the Dublin Foundation for the financial year 1996 in accordance with the provisions of the relevant accounts[6).
A review of the cooperation with the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao and Directorate-General V of the Commission in the area of health and safety was also carried out.
Financial data 7. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Foundation.
Available solutions for the financial year 1996 charged to ECU 13,8 million.
Commitments entered into gave rise to ECU 10,5 million in payments and ECU 3,1 million in carry-over to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 0,2 million having been cancelled.
Specifications carried over from the previous year gave rise to ECU 2.9 million in payments and ECU 0.1 million in cancellations.
Table 3 attached to this report gives an analysis by title of the implementation of the commitments for the year and for those carried over from 1995.
Follow up of previous observations Separation of duties 8. There is still an inadequate separation of duties between the authority officer and the accounting office (7), contravening Article 1 (15) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 Articleing Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76. Impest account 9. Last year the Court recommended that the use of the impres account is limited to ongoing or small expenses, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
At the time of the audit in April 1997 a written definition of ongoing and small expenses still had not been established by the Foundation in consultation, with the Financial Controller.
Transfer of acceptances between Titles 10. The Court welcomes the fact that no transfers of acceptances between Titles were made during 1996.
The Court has criticized such transfers in previous years (8).
Mission Extensions 11. Some improvements have been made to surtethethen the controls and monitoring of the results of missions.
The Foundation should continue its effects so as to ensure that:
C 393/12 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12... for all missions a report setting the times of meetings, persons met and the results of the meeting is prepared.
The report should be reviewed by a senior member of staff and filed centrally, not where possible, more than one meeting should be arranged during a mission to Brussels in order to avoid the same staff member going to Brussels on successful weeks, wing other means of communication, including tele wed, should be seriously considered, especially when communicating with persons in Brussels already well known.
Study contracts 12. The audit team of the Court followed up last year's observation regarding failings in the submission of work by contracts.
The minutes of the programme management meetings did not contain any evidence of a review of report deaths.
A summary of the information supplied by the Foundation during the audit is show in Table 4 and demonstrates the need for a formalization of followundup procedures.
Management of health and safety issues at work at Bilbao communed its activities in September 1996
"Health and safety" was in the Foundation's programme of work for 1996, but was replaced in the programme of work for 1997 with "Health and well ψbeing" (Health and safety's programme of work for 1996 "Health and safety's programme of the Foundation's work for 1996 (Health and safety's programme of work for 1996, but was replaced in the programme of work for 1997 with "Health and wellbeing."
There is an urgent need for a clear and detailed M emorandum of Understanding (currently being negotiated) to be agreed on by both satellite agencies.
This should maximum cooperation and exclusive any overlap in activities.
17. Formal contact points already exist at administrative level, notably through both directors at attention to the other's Administrative Board meetings as an observer.
Links need to be extended to the research manager level in order to ensure full coordination.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. Directorate F of DG V, 'Public Health and Safety at Work', makes use of some of the Foundation's research within this specialized field.
Whilst maintaining the present independence of the Foundation's Administrative Board, there is a need to make more effective to ensure that its output is as useful as possible to DG V/F in terms of content and timing.
DG V/F is unable to attend all meeting concerning specific study contracts.
It would therefore be useful to hold periodic meetings at which the whole range of studies which may concern DG V/F can be discussed.
Conclusion 19. There is an inadequate separation of duties rights accounting officer and authorising officer (see paragraph 8).
20. The use of the impress account should be regularised (see paragraph 9).
21. Controls over mission expenditure and the monitoring of study contracts should be tightened (see paragraphs 11 and 12).
22. Cooperation and communication with the Bilbao Agency and DG V/F in the folds of 'Health and safety at work' and 'Health and well. Being' should be covered (see paragraphs 16 to 18).
Budget implementation and the expenditure account Transfer of commitments revenue and 13. The value of transfers of transfers of commitments between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 1 366 000 (9.9% of commitments entered into the budget), down from ECU 1 494 000 (11.0%) in 1995.
Carry-overs and cancellations of requests 14. Table 3 shows that the payment rate is 76 % for the account as a whole, but only 55 % for Title 3 Operating expenditure'.
This is in line with previous years and is due to the fact that studies are usually paid in three istalments over the period foreen in their contracts.
Revenue 15. The EU subsidies for the Foundation for 1996 was ECU 13,4 million.
The amount actually requested and received was ECU 12 895 632.
The funds were requested as required by the Council Regulations and in line with a cash flow forward, as previously recommended by the Court.
29. 12.97'1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities'C 393/13 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 and 13 November 1997. ί1) OJL139,30.5.75,p.1.
(2) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 93, p. 13.
(4) OJ L 164, 24. 6. 76, p. 16.
(5) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 published on 30 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30.5. 1975).
(6) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30. 5. 1975) on the creation of the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993).
Council Regulation (EEC) N o 1417/76 of l'June 1976 (OJ L 164, 24. 6. 1976) on the financial provisions applying to the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) N o 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23. 1993).
(7) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 8.
(8) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 10 and Dublin Foundation annual report 1994, paragraph 3.2.
For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIDMANN President
C 393/14 1 EN I - Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assets 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Mission advances 4. Miscellaneous advances 5. Bank weights Cash accounts Bank account geschange - ECU. (IR £) I. (IR £) (1996) 7106 1 5 5 1 38. 337 3 9 2 440 794 204 1995 7106 1350 23.2. 9 1 legion (in ECU 1000) 1995 8 479 - 2040. 18. 3 4.2.040. 0121 10 750 Assets 1. Buildings 2. Furniture Current assets 1 Stocks Fixed capital 10 484 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation. : C 393/14 1 EN I - Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 97 Assities 2. Sums to be recovered.
10 484 - ANNEX TABLE 1 TABLE Sheet AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 10 750 1. Own capital 8 695 2. Balance for the financial year - 2 8 8 3. Balance from the previous year - 2 040 Current capitalities Salary reductions 24 Revenue to be collected 336 Sums to be recovered ■ 209 Appropriations carried over 3 098 Payments in progress 450
C 393/16 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996... UTILIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRIATIONDefinitive 5 950 1 170 6 680 13 800 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
Canceled '50 (0.8) 16 (1.4) 130 (1.9) 196 (1.4) Available 28 177 2 807 3 012 Total The figures in.
Year 1995 1996 Total contracts (') 110 62 Deadlines not respected (2) 57 42 Percentage (2) / not') 52 68 Payments 5 877 (98.8) 976 (84.4) 3 653 (54.7) Carry-overs 23 27 (96.4) 174 (98.3) 2 669 (95.1) 2 870 (95.3) Caitcelled 1 (3.6) 3 (1.7) 138 (4.9) 142 (4.7) 10 506 (76.1) 1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments - (0.4) 178' ((15.2) 2 897 (4.3) Total 172 99 58 (1) For 1996 only those contracts for which the regular deadline was prior to 31 January 1997 have been included' ((15.2) 2 897 (4.3) Total 172 99 58 (1) For 1996 only those contracts for which the contractual deadline was prior to 31 January 1997 have included.
(2) Only cases where reports were shown as received over one month after the deadline have j)een included.
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
3 098 (22.5) TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 in yAN 1996 in yR P Y Y Y Y Y P Y Y P Y Y P Y P Y P Y Y P Y Y Y Y P Y Y Y Y P Y P Y P Y Y P Y P Y Y P Y Y Y P Y Y P Y P Y C C Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y Y P Y P Y P Y Y Y Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y Y P Y P Y Y P Y Y P Y P Y C C C Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y P Y Y P Y Y P Y Y P Y Y Y Y P Y P Y Y Y Y P Y Y P Y P Y Y P Y P Y Y P Y Y P Y Y P Y T T Y T Y T Y Y T Y T Y T Y Y T Y T Y T T Y T Y Y Y T Y T Y T Y Y T Y T Y T Y Y T Y Y T Y Y T Y T Y T Y Y Y Y T Y Y T Y Y Y T Y T Y Y Y T Y Y Y T Y Y T Y T Y T Y T Y T Y Y T Y T Y T Y T Y T Y Y T Y Y T Y T Y T Y T Y T Y T Y T Y T Y Y T T Y T Y Y Y T Y T Y Y T Y Y T Y Y Y Y Y T Y Y T Y T Y Y Y Y Y T Y Y Y Y T Y T Y T Y T Y T Y T T Y T Y T Y Y T Y T Y T Y Y Y Y T Y T T Y T Y T Y T T Y T Y T Y Y Y T Y Y Y T Y T Y Y Y T Y T Y T Y Y Y T Y T T Y T Y T Y Y T Y Y T Y Y T T Y T Y T Y Y T Y Y T Y Y Y T Y Y T Y T Y T Y T Y Y T T Y Y T Y T Y T Y T Y Y Y Y Y Y T Y T Y T T Y T Y T Y Y T Y Y Y Y Y T Y T T Y Y T Y T Y
29. 12.97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/17 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPREVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS Separation of duties 8. The Foundation would ask the Court to note that the two functions of authority and accounting officers are carried out separately by different individuals: a residual problem of separation of duties is limited to data input to the accounting system.
This problem will be restored when the Foundation obtains delivery of a new system.
The Foundation is in contact with the Commission services with regard to the feasibility of the application of the Commission's Sincom 2 system to the Foundation's accounting requirements. ~ ~ - Imprest account 9. During 1996 the Foundation's use of the Imprest account was, in practice, in accordance with the recommendation of the Court, limited to ongoing or small expenses.
The Foundation, in June 1997 in consultation with the Financial Controller, established a written definition with regard to these expenses.
Mission expenses 11. In 1996, the Foundation further developed e existing procedures with regard to mission reports.
"Tis process will continue and will corporate the suggestions of the Court."
The Foundation continues to facilitate the optimal number of meetings during a particular mission.
The Court's comments regarding missions to Brussels are, however, noted.
Following the successful completion of a pilot scheme during 1996 the Foundation has now installed a tele-conference facility.
It is intended to review the implementation of this facility at the end of a trial period at which time further decisions will be taken, based on a cost analysis, regarding the value of acquiring more extensive and sophisticated video-conferencing equipment.
Study contracts 12. Although the minutes of the programme management meetings have not registered the situation on specific contract dies, such discussions on each contract take place at every meeting and appropriate action is taken.
With regard to such recording the Foundation is now establishing an improved system for formalization of follow-up procedures in order to present a more realistic picture.of the situation.
Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The memorandum of Understanding currently under consideration is regarded as a priority item by the Foundation.
The establishment of left at research-manager level has also leveled.
These will be implemented in line with any increase in activities undertaken by the Bilbao Agency.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. The Foundation.is very cognisant of the need for its output to be relevant to the work of DG V. The Commission is represented on the Foundation's Administrative Board by the Deputy-Director-General of DG V. Various forms of working relations have been established with the Director of DG V, included mutant participation in working groups as appropriate.
Specificly through the office of the Director of DG V/F the Foundation has regular contacts with officials in the various units within DG V/F. Presentation of aspects of the Foundation's work to DG V officials is provided for within the Foundation's operational activities.
The Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work in Luxembourg is also kept informed of the Foundation's programme and its results.
More generally there is a flow of relevant documentation from the Foundation to DG V •in relation to the results of the work programmes.
The Court's acknowledged that DG V/F is frequently impossible to attend meetings relation to specific study contracts is noted.
The Foundation is fully open to alternative proposals from DG V/F with regard to rendering of the Foundation's output.
C 393/18 I EN [Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products (EMEÄ, London) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/03) 1.1.
This report is added to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products, pursuant to Article 57 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (*).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accordance with Article 57 (7) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 (l).
His replies include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in accordance with the three internal financial provisions provided for in Article 57 (11) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court concluded its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards in so far as they are appropriate to the Community context.
It examined the account books and records and carried out such additional audit procedures as it considered necessary.
The financial statements concerning the financial year 1996 are related and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions as a whole are guaranteed.
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE EVALUATION OF MEDICINAL · PRODUCTS (EMEA, LONDON) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget accounts 1.5.
The Agency's budget accounts do not enable the principle of the feasibility of the accounts to be guaranteed, as a posteriori modifications are possible and enable.
Further, the accounts do not make it possible to detect cases of spending in excess of available acquisitions.
The current system does not allow the authorisation officer to enter accounting data (proposals for commitments and payment orders) to the computer.
These data are recorded by the accounting officer in the accounts for the record (Temporary freezing) before being approved by the Financial Controller.
This practice does not provide accurate information on the accounts in real time.
As the Sincom 2 system, which is supposed to replace the present accounting system, is not yet operational, an alternative solution should preferably be should without delay.
General accounts zeiten analytical 1.7.
The general accounts software that is currently used is inefficient for the Agency's needs and is separate from the budget accounts system.
Further, the Agency has no system of analytical accounts, which is however disposable if one wishes to establish whether the scale of fees laid down by the Council (3) adequately covers the costs of evaluation.
Use of subsidies.
1.8. The commitments carried forward from 1995 to 1996 totalled ECU 5.9 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million (29%) was cancelled.
ECU 0,9 million of 1995 acceptances made available for reuse but not used in 1996 were also cancelled. 1.9.
Only 79,6 % of current commitments (ECU 22,6 million before the SAB and ECU 17,9 million after a reduction made following the adoption of an amending budget) were implemented and 20,7 % were cancelled (ECU 4,7 million).
The main reason for this was the impossibility of recruiting staff in good time (only 65 % of the posts for which provision had been made); a second reason was the reduction in licence applications and in the corresponding studies.
1.10. The approvals carried forward from 1996 to 1997 totalled ECU 4.8 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million and ECU 2.8 million concern Titles II (administrative expenditure) and III (operational expenditure).
In the case of Title II, ECU 1,1 million concern purchases of equipment based on new technology.
In the case of Title III, ECU 1,3 million concern fees to be paid to the auditors during examinations (started in 1996 and finished in 1997) and ECU 0,8 million was for engine drugs.
29."
12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/19 Imprest account 1.11.
Contrary to accounting principles, a loss of ECU 0,02 million in 1994 was listed under expenditure to be settled in 1995 and 1996. ^ Revenue; subsidies; own resources 1.12.
The total révenue actually collected, i.e. ECU 18,4 million, represents 81 % of the amount for which the budget actively provided.
The fees collected amounted to ECU 7 million.
Only 73 % of the amount initially provided for could be collected and checked.
The balance sheet shows ECU 0,9 million of fees due that have not yet been validated and established in accordance with Article 5 (3) of the Agency's Financial Regulation. 1.14.
In 1997, the Agency adopted a new computer system for revenue.
This system will be exhausted during the next Court audit.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997.
0 OJ L 214, 24'.
8. 1993, p. 18.
(2) Pursuant to Article 57 (9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 26 March 1997, on which date they were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and delivered to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 31 March 1997.
The short fornì of these financial statements is presented in the tables included to this report.
(3) OJ L 35, 15. 2. 1995.
Quelsions subpropesses dispositions detoels dispositions decovers decovers decovers decovers depos cs 393/20 1 EN Ci Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDNN Pre Pre Pres Pres Pres Pres Pre C 393/20 Bernhard FRIEDNN C 393/20 3 893 1 893 1 893 0 147 728 113 1995 1394 0 21 199 993 1 157 8 249 8 249 10 800 Liabilities Capital (l) Balance for the year ^ Current dispositions 1996 1 893 4 583 6 476 16 3 593 4 583 6 476 8 190 895 314 728 7 235 13 7 7 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 564 1226 41 85 390 0 199 7 855 10 800 Fixed assets Fixed castsasse deto-covers subpropers to deprovers to deprovers to deprovers per pertos pertos tos
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 TABLE TABLE Sheet FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996
29. 12.97 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/21 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE ACCounT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Received from the Commission Fees Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff. Budget Title I Payments Accepted over Total revenue 1996 11 000 7 004 372 18 376 6 593 263 2 858 1698 3 650 2 811 388 18 011 365 1 551 2 667 4 583 (in ECU 1000) 1995 10150 3 210 299 13 659 3 594 Total revenue 1996 11 472 3 39 5 660 0 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551 Buildings, equipment and various administrative expenses Over Operating expenditures in.
Budget Title III Payments Commitments carried over Miscellaneous expenditure not included in budget Payments to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Exchange losses Outturn for the financial year Balance carried over from previous year Commitments carried over from previous year, cancelled Total expenditure Balance to be carried over Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
In the absence of a commercial computing system which meets the requirements of the Financial Regulation and until the new SI2 system, developed by the Commission, which the Agencies are in the process of adapting to their needs, is available, the Agency is managing its budget accounts using Excel software.
This software makes that the information required for the sound management of the budget is always available and it provides the Agency's management with information which is relevant and up-to-date.
The software versions budget commitments, commitments, orders, frozen commitments and payments.
The existing system indicates cases spending in excess of available commitments.
The supporting document for each entry in the budget system is the document signed by the authority officer.
It is approved by the Financial Controller and is processed by the accounts department.
It is true that the Agency's system is not yet completely computerized and, because it does not retain in its memory changes to enteries, it does, in principle, allow changes to be made without any indication there appears in the general accounts.
However, it should be noted that all commitments, cancellations, payment orders, etc. are prepared and classified in accordance with the rules, the relevant supporting documents being placed in an annex.
In the new system it will not be possible to make ex post facto changes without there being any indication there.
Jake most of the Agencies, the EMEA expectations that the work on the SI2 project will be completed in 1997 and that the system will be made available.
The new system will allow the general accounts to better integrated with the budget accounts.
Together with the other Agencies, the EMEA issued an invitation to tender two years ago for compatible software; the result was dis Speaking.
The EMEA alternatives that the SI2 system, adapted to the needs of the Agency, will be available by the end of 1997.
1.7. On 5 February 1997 the Management Board adopted a report on the cost of operational activities, which was forwarded to the Commission.
The Agency is busy structure its accounts system so as to include analytical accounts.
In addition, a pilot programme for the electronic recording of activities has been started. 1.8.
The sum of ECU 0,9 million in 1995 approximations made available for reuse but not used in 1996 relates notably to Article 204 (fitting-out of premises).
As these approaches could not be transferred and as no significant fitting-out work was carried out in 1996, the sum in question was cancelled.
1.11. Article 5 of the Financial Regulation measures that expenditure for which authority reaches the Financial Controller no later than 31 December, and for which the Article 5 of the Financial Regulation measures are made no later than the following 15 January, will be entered in the accounts for the financial year which is coming to a close.
Following the precision interpretation of these provisions in 1994 a sum of ECU 16 915.22. was impressed to the impress account.
Following discussions with the Court's auditors the sum in question was settled in the 1997 accounts.
1.13. Even if, with more experience in the field, the Agency was able to improve its estimates of the volume of users to be received, taking account also of the seasonal nature of their submission, the Agency would still be no more able in the future than it is at present to form, one year in advance, exact estimates of the plans of the pharmaceutical industry and therefore of the amount which might be expected from fees.
These uncertainties mean that the Agency is obliged to pursue a cautious policy with regard to expenditure.
29. 12.97 ΓΕΝ~ make available Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/23 REPORT on the financial statements of the Office for harmonisation in the I financial market (OHI M, Alicante) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Office's replies (97/C 393/04) 1.1.
This report is added to the budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the I external Market pursuant to Article 137 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 C).
The Court has examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the I external Market for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office in accordance with the requirements of Article 119 (2) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2).
His replies include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (3) in accordance with the internal financial rules, as provided for by Article 137 of Regulation (EC) No 40/94. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court.of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
I t carried out tests on the account books and records and such' additional procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report.
1.4. For the reasons indicated in paragraphs 1.8 to 1.12 (own revenue) the Court was unable to form an opinion as to whether the accounts understood the revenue show in the financial statements are financial.
Subject to the above reserves, the financial statements for the financial year 1996 are flexible and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, assured.
Main observati ons imitation of the Budget of the Offi CE FOR HARMONI ZATI ON AND NTERNAL MARKET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget accounts 1.6.
Although 1996 is the Office's third year of activity, the accounts department of the Office still does not have good budget accounting software.
Monitoring the implementation of the budget is carried out with the aid of a tool which is not a real accounting system (changes may be made to enteres with no subject record of their having been made, absence of any link to the general accounts, etc.). 1.7.
The Office does not Possess any system of analytical accounting, which is, however,,, indispensable for the purposes of establishing the real cost of services rendered.
Own revenue 1.8.
Before the entry into service, in May 1996, of the system set up to monitor the charges associated with the filling of trade marks (Euromarc), two alternative systems had been used temporally to monitor applications for trade-mark registrations.
The risk that is inherent in the transfer of data from these temporal systems to Euromarc is high and the Court was thus impossible to form an opinion as to whether such transfers were complete.
The Office was not able to demonstrate that the Euromarc system was functioning according to the description it had given.
The Court is, therefore, not in a position to state with certainty that the reliability of the system is assured.
The new description draw up by the Office reached the Court too late for it to be able to carry out the additional work that was necessary to remove this unknown.
For reasons which are mainly due to the unwirdiness of Euromarc and the complexity of the THE regulations, long deals in dealing with applications were observed.
Some clients filed to the Office on this account.
Moreover, the cumulative delay prevention the entry of more than ECU 12.4 million of revenue out of a total of ECU 45.9 million in receptions.
The difference, i.e. ECU 33.5 million, was entered under liabilities and show on the balance sheet as 'advances from clients'.
Of this amount, ECU 4,7 million was made up of payments that could not be linked to the related trade-mark applications.
Bearing in mind that new payments arrive every day, these old transactions must be identified as a matter of turency.
C 393/24 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 ACPC 1.12.
The Office's ACPC was not created until 1 April 1996.
Several contracts for which the opinion of the ACPC would have been required, had. already been approved by the Office on the basis of an Operating report' approved, in some cases, by a note from the legal department, concerning the regularity of the procedure followed.
Searching for notes can, under no circumstances, replace the opinion of the ACPC.
Appropriations carried over; cancellations; transfers 1.13.
Approvals carried over to 1997 totalled ECU 14.5 million (total automatic carry-over), i.e. 44.8 % of the total of ECU,32,4 million of Approvals for the financial year.
These approaches carried forward originally in the large volume of trade-mark applications which had not been processed at the end of the year.
The total of current developments which lapsed was ECU 5.6 million, i.e. 17,3 % of the developments for the financial year.
As far as the approximations carried over from the financial year L995 are concerned ECU 4,65 million, i.e. 14,6 %, lapsed (ECU 0,68 million).
Transfers of funds approximately approximately equaled to ECU 7.6 million.
The. totals quoted, as well as the subsidies carried over to the financial year 1997 and the volume of revenue received, show the inaccuracy of the budget estimates for the financial year 1996.
An amendment of the initial budget estimates should have been made during the financial year.
Buildings 1.16.
The Office continues to move a building belonging to the Spanish authorities and placed at its disposing free of charge.
However, no contract exists in this respect.
As far as the final location is concerned, the Office has open negotiations in respect of a proposed acquisition and has entered an initial amount in the budget for superior work.
1.17. It must be emphased that the Office must ensure that the necessary proposals are available before a legal commitment is entered into.
(2) OJ L 11, 14.1.1994, p. 30.
(3) Pursuant to Article 137 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 21 February 1997.
These accounts were received by the Court on 25 February 1997.
The short form of these financial statements is to be found in the tables included to this report.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President 29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/25 Fixed assets Fixed capital installations and furniture Movable equipment Computer equipment Intangible assets Current assets Subtotal Capital 0 2 412 Balance for the year (4 318) Securities and Guarantees received 3 Other long-term liabilities 43 Subtotal (2) (1 860) Current liabilities Automationc carry-overs of 14 517 liabilities Revenue for reuse 69 Institutions 478 Sundry accounts due 35 Balance of Commission subsidies (3) 6289 VAT and charges to be recovered 429 Advances from clients 33 511 Subtoatal 55 328 total assets 478 Sundry accounts due 35 Balance of Commission charges (3) 6289 VAT and charges to be recovered 429 Advances from clients 33 511 Subtoatal 55 328 total accounts to assets 53 468 Commission VATtos recoverable accounts recoverable.
Cash accounts Bank subscription accounts Imprest account Subtotal Subtotal Assets Assets Assets "1996 383 48 1 890 91 2 412 6 289 42 429 6 760 44 291 5 44 296 53 468 1995 569 48 162 779 3 275 26 169 3 470 1 863 16 1 879 6128 Liabilities 1996 (in ECU 1000) 1995 779 478 2 43 1302 4 648 9 169 4 826 6 128 ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE Sheet FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 (') This amount corresponds to total fixed assets.
(2) The negative total of the balance for the year and capital does not constitute a loss of capital.
It is the result of applying the Financial Regulation in respect of revenue (only revenue which has been collected) and expenditure (payments plus payments carried over).
(3) In the financial statements for the financial year 1995, the amount of Commission subsidies still to be paid at the end of the financial year is listed as revenue.
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities. '
Source: Draw up-by the Court, on the basis of information supplied by the Office.
2015 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y 2015 y
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities..
29.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/27 REPLIES OF THE OFFICE FOR HARMONIZATION IN THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET 1.4.
Own revenue The payment of the fees and charges associated with the filing and registration of a Community trade-mark is the final step in a lengthy procedure, which is laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993.
Between the time a trade-mark application is filed and the time the corresponding charges are entered in the accounts there is usually an interval of two months, in the course of which the case is antited by at least three different types of staff.
The whole process is computerized and each category of staff involved is authorized to access the computer system which covers the duties for which they are responsible.
In order to be able to cover in a limited amount of time (two to three days) all the stages involved from receive of application to enter in the accounts of the charges, it is absolutely essential that the cases selected at the outside receive priority treatment.
This is possible providing two conditions are met: 1. that a single user is authorized, temporally and by way of exception, to have access to all computer systems required to complete all the stages, up to enter in the accounts, and 2. that the demonstration of the approved procedure takes place in a test environment in order that there may be all the flexibility of use required without the production base being discussed.
During the visit of the auditors in February 1997 it was not possible to carry out such a demonstration in the time available for technical reasons.
Measures have already been put in place to ensure that a complete presentation of the revenue payment system can be made during the auditors' visit which is planned for October 1997.
Budget accounts Like the other Agencies, the OHIM is awaiting the final version of the Sincom 2 budget accounting software.
This software ought to be available towards the end of 1997.
Once the OHIM receives the software, it will be brought into use over a period of a few months.
Analytic accounts The Office will start to establish analytical accounts for certain areas of activity at the starting of 1998, when it will have a successful broadcast and stable production base in certain sectors to be able to establish realistic standards.
Own revenue Stückkosten change of system While changing over to the final system for monitoring applications and charges, the Office verified extremely though that the data transferred were consistent.
Moreover, bank renewals confirmed the results of the transfer.
The Office therefore considers that the transfer was carried out correctly.
1.9 Volume 1.10.
System for the payment of charges See reply to paragraph 1.4.
Deal hi the identification/entry of payments On account of the large number of applications received in 1996 (43 000 rather than the 15 000 anticipated), the Office built up a certain backlog in 1996 in the entry of application charges.
The Office has now almost caught up with this backlog.
As regards the ECU 4,7 million made up of non-identified payments, the situation has been rectified since March 1997, as intended and explained to the Court's auditors.
At present, the time-lag between the reception of a cheque by the OHIM and its identification and transfer to the bank is six days.
C 393/28 ΓΕΝ~1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 1.13 ACPC The ACPC began operating as soon as the Office's Financial Regulation and the implementing rules applicable to the Financial Regulation, which govern the composition of the ACPC, entered into force.
Before the creation of the ACPC the OHI M had no alternative but to follow the procedure which it did, namely to consult the legal department in respect of contracts exceeding a third of ECU 42 000, in order to ensure that the procedure was in accordance with the rules applicable to the conclusion of public contracts.
In the case of the other institutions and of the Commission in particular, in order to benefit from the legal guarantee attached to such contracts and the economies of scale which necessarily result.
Applications carried over A relative large amount of acceptances were carried over in 1996.
80 % of the carry-overs in question related to procedural expenditure (searches/ translation/publications, etc.).
In accordance with Article 29 of the Financial Regulation, the Office must commit the procedural expenditure Articleing from Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 on the Community trade-mark the moment application charges are entered in the accounts.
This is effectively unavoidable expenditure, the implementation of which is directly linked to the collection of the application charges.
Clearly, during this start-up phase, taking into account the fact that the number of applications was much higher than anti-cipated (+ 280 %), the discretory between the commitment of procedural expenditure and the actual implementation of the procedures in question is much greater than during normal operation.
This situation is progressive being regularized; in 1997 approaches carried over in respect of procedural expenditure will be clearly less.
Łapsed commitments/transfers of acceptances The 1996 budget was draw up at the end of June 1994 and submitted to the budget authority in February 1995. Łapsed commitments/transfers of acceptances The 1996 budget was draw up at the end of June 1994 and submitted to the budget authority in February 1995.
At that stage, there was nothing to suggest that the OHIM would be faced with such a number of trade-mark applications.
In June and September 1996 the OHI M informed its budget Committee of how the situation was developing, drawing its attention to the budget attentions.
It should be noted that some of the.lapsed provisions come under Chapter 1 1 and relate in particular to Heading 1 1 3 (ECU 1.31,000).
These approaches were entered in the budget at the request of the Commission in order to cover the employees' contribution to salaries payable to staff (it was said that this entry was contrary to the staff regulations).
I n the mean time, the Commission has indicated that no pension fund exists and that no amount is due as an employer's contribution.
As regards the other lapsed approaches, they are necessarily approaches relation to procedural expenses for which it was impossible to make commitments in 1996 due to packed of time.
Building There is no leave contract between the Spanish authorities and the OHI M. for the later's occupation of its temporal seat at 20 Avenida de Aguilera.
There is, however, a document entered 'Acte de remise des clés du siège provisoire' (Deed of delivery of keys to the temporal seat), which was signed on 25 February 1994 by the Cosoami and the OHIM and which provides for the OHI M to occupy the temporal seat until it is able to overnight the final seat.
Final seat The OHI M has taken note of the Court's observation concerning the availability of acceptances for the acquisition of the final seat.
Its budget Committee has, however, approved the acquisition of the first phase of the final seat by means of bank loan financing.
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/29 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/05) 1.1.
This report is added to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency, pursuant to Article 13 (4) of the Council Regulation (EEC) No 390/90 of 7 May 1990 (i1).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 1996.
The Court carried out tests on the account books and records and also such additional audit procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The observations set out in paragraphs 1.6 to 1.15 show that there are accounting practices in use at the Agency which are not consistent with the regulations.
There are also certainsums for which nojustification could be given.
Subject to the above reservations, the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 1996 are -reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, guaranteed. of accounts.
No such rehabilitation was made during the financial year 1996.
Further, for the financial year 1996, such recovery was completed by the consolidation of a substantial proportion of the general account entries (the various budget accounts were grouped into five major expenditure accounts in the general accounts; several non-budget entries concerning various credit or debit operations in respect of staff were also grouped together in a single account in the general accounts).
Another activity of this accounting system is the impossibility of checking a posteriori the level of acceptances during the year and thus of obtaining that available acceptances have not been exhausted.
1.8. Further, it was noted that a balance of approximately ECU 0,02 million was shown on the balance sheet (sundry accounts payable) for which the Agency was unable to provide the Court with the appropriate supporting documents (see consolidation problem mentioned in paragraph 1.6).
The Agency's budget accounts are still behindhand and could not provide the authority officers and the Financial Controller with the information they need if the former are to commit themselves legally in respect of third parties and the later to give his approval to the proposals for commitments that are subject to him.
For this reason, the Agency has had to set up a parallel system for monitoring the implementation of the budget so as not to exceed available acceptances, as it did during the previous financial year (see report on the implementation of the 1995 budget), and to enable the authority officers to check at all times the level of commitment of the acceptance for which they are responsible (failure to observe Articles 58 and 59 of the implementing provisions for the Commission's Financial Regulation, which also applies to the EEA, as the Agency has not adopted its own implementing provisions).
As the Sincom 2 system is unlikely to be available within a reasonable time, the Agency should preferably seek an alternative solution so as to have an effective accounting system at its disposition.
The methodology applied during the financial year 1996 applied neither with accounting rules nor with the MAIN OBSERVATIONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (EEA, COPENHAGEN) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget and general accounts 1.6.
The accounts continue to be kept on two different computerized accounting systems: commercial software is used for the general accounts and another tool is used for the budget accounts.
This double system would require regular (at least monthly) restructurings of the two sets CONCERNING THE
C 393/30 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 Communities' financial regulations and effectively led to the financial statements (trial balance, balance sheet and revenue and expenditure account) being submitted after the deadlines had exhausted.
1.12. The approach adopted by the Management Board for drawing up and submitting the financial statements is thus not a relevant one.
1996 payments recorded in 1997 1.15.
Commitments carried over; contracts 1.18.
The percentage of payments carried forward This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. ί1) OJ L 120, 11. 5. 1990, p. 4.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI EDMANN President
12.97 1 EN separate 22.. 1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/31 Fixed assets Ass Ass Ass 1996 1995 1995 153 2 209 9 2 371 0 172._ 32 4 5 740 6 3 463 3 243 3 71979 Liabilities Fixed capital Capital C) Balanced forward Subtoal (2) Short-term liabilities N-automatic carry-overs Automatic Automatic Automatic carry-overs Automatic Automatic carry-overs Automatic Automatic carry-overs Accountants 1996 2 629 (3387) 89 6 126 129 15 20 10 905 (in ECU 1,000) 1995 2 371 1 844 4 215 5 997 0 153 Equip 0 153 172
(293/32) 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Comm money 29. 12. 97 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE AACCOUNT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Grants received from the Commission Miscellaneous revenue Ex Ex Exchange profits Subsiditure Staff received i1) Ex ENVENDITURE ACCOUNT About ch THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue received from the Commission Miscellaneous revenue Subsidiary revenue revenue (i1) Expenditure Staff dy Staff. i Payments Payments Payments 1995 6 2 219 3 0 5 786 20 14 298 (5 812) 1844 5 5 5 5 5 887 0 5 740 12 321 2 886 5 5 5 5 740 2 0 0 per 5 Exceurs Extens to Expens to Expens on 0 and ce
29. 12.97 I EN... requested the official Journal of the European Communities C 393/33 REPLIES OF THE EUROPE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY Budgets and general accounts Point 1.6 accounting systems The Agency provides from the Lack of an integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
C 393/34 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 and the resulting efficiency, the Agency use SI2 for its integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
29. 12.97 Γ Ε Ν journal Journal of the European Communities C 393/35 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/06) 1.1.
THE Contracts and ACPC 1.12.
C 393/36 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 tender (sometimes in the absence of a preliminary invitation to interested parties to apply).
OJL 36,12.2.1993,p.6.
OJ L 341, 30.12.1994, p. 7.
C 393/38 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 Revenue Commission subsidies Commission subsidies received received Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff. Title I.
29.12.97 [ EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/39 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN MONITORING CENTRE FOR TRUGS AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
C 393/40 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 1.16.
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/41 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies (97/C 393/07) 1.1.
C 393/42 1 EN 1. Official Journal of the European Communities' 29. 12. 97 for 1996) for certain items of expenditure was not recorded in the accounts of the Foundation (but in separate accounts).
Awarding of contracts 1.12.
02 02 02 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015.29.97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/43 Assetts 1996 Computers Equipment and furniture 544 1995 326 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 4 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 5 5 5 5 5
29. 12.97 AND EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/45 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEANTRAINING FOUNDATION 1.5.
1.12.
C 393/46 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 be carried out for Tempus projects (Phare and Tacis) and Phare vocational training programmes.
29. 12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/47 REPORT on the financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Fincial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/08) 1.1.
C 393/48 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 years), these contributions are to be flat-rate and are to be calculated on the basis of each body's forecast of its translation needs.
OJ L 314, 7.12.1994, p. 3.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/49 Fixed assets 1996 17 464 Subtotal 481 BALANCE Assets 1996 SHEET FOR 1995 198 198 924 924 1122 THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Liabilities Fixed capital Own capital (x) Net results Short-term liabilities Applications carried over by the budget Authority Automation Automatic carry-over Sundry accounts payable Net contributions from clients (2) Subtotal Total liabilities (in ECU 1,000) 1995 334 334 320 468 788 1122 Assets and furniture 9 Intangible assets 1 1 1x Official Banks over 1 1
ΓΕΝΗ Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Various revenue Own revenue Recoverable revenue (λ) Expenditure Staff. Title I Payments Payments carried over Total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 " 1996 90 2 703 2 793 1 155 905 (in ECU 1000) 1995 12 1095 198 1305 181 393 2 395 971 334 Buildings, equipment, etc. Title I Payments 88 Expenditure carried over Outturn for the financial year Outturn from previous financial year acquisitions carried over and cancelled.
29.12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/51 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/51 EN Official Journal of the European Communities of the European Communities CENTRE FOR THE BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN Union Budgets accounts 1.5.
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/53 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. (') OJ L 227, 1.9.1994, p. 27.
In October 1995 EN Halo 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 EX 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 OPA 2015 2015 w 2015 w... 12. 97 Fixed assets Equipment and furniture Computer equipment Intangible fixed assets Current assets Sundry accounts received Cash accounts Bank wzarrent accounts Impres accounts Subto Subtotal Asset Assets 1996 15 35 2 52 20 498 150 4 648 4 748 4 720 4 720 1995 24 2 0 3 403 3 429 Liabilities Fixed capital Own funds (x) Balance for the financial year 1996 52 3 885 3 937 472 28 283 783 4 7 720 (in ECU 1,000) 1995 26 3 065 3 091 97 ■ 37 204 3 429 Subto Total asses Short-term Library 2 7 7 720 (in ECU 1,000) 2015 2015 26 019 97 ■ 37 204 3 429 Subto Subto Total asses Short-term 28 28 283 783 4 7 720 (in ECU 1,000) 2015 26  091 97 ■ 37 429 2015 2015 2015 in October 2015 in October 2015 in year 2015 in October 2015 in the 4th year 2015 in October 2015 in October 2015 EN Halo 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 EX 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 OPA 2015 2015 in 2015 OPA 2015 2015 in... in the OPA 2015 2015 in OPA... 7-
29. 12.97 AND EN.
C 393/56 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12.97 C 393/56 EN Official Journal of the European Communities Official Journal of the European Communities of 29 12.97 Resolutions OF THE COMMUNICATION PLANT Variety OFFICE The main points raised by the Court in this document on the execution of the budget for the these years relate to the absence of: effective IT for general and budget accounting, to a formal Financial Controller, a Consultative Committee on Procurement and Contracts.
29.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/57 President of the Council had to stand in as 'Martidentaire', b) no relevant purchase or tendering exercise exhausted the exhausted set under the Financial Regulation of the Commission.
C 393/58 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Fincial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/10) 1.1.
29. 12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/59 were also departures in the recruitment of the persons who make up the Agency's basec staff.
C 393 Nachbeobachtung I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Fixed assets Fixed capital Equipment and furniture Computer equipment assets Sundry accounts received VAT and duties Own funds (l) Balance for the financial year Short-term liabilities Subtotal Cash accounts Banks. yurrent Impres acount Subtotal Subtotal Assets 34 16 16 50 1 9 7 5 100 2 075 2 157 Approaches carried over by the budget Authority Automation carry overs Sundry "accounts due Assets 1996 25 7 Subtotal -32 Liabilities (in ECU 1,000) 1996 32 83.9696 76 161 2 5 157 (') This amount corresponds to the fixed assets.
Source:'Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Recoverable V A T and duties Subtotal liabilities
29.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/61 TABLE 2 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR.1996 Total revenue (ECU 1000) 1996 3 000 36 3 036 292 81 884.
6 3 0 3 319 2 3 206 830 830 Revenue Commission subsidies Sundry revenue Expenditure Staff nie Title I Payments Buildings, equipment, etc. y., Title II Payments Measures carried over Operating expenditure. Title III Payments.
Commitments carried over Outturn for the financial year source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
Total expenditure Balance for the financial year
C 393/62 1 EN 393/62 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK The Court of Auditors visited the Agency for Safety and Health at Work from 12 to 16 May 1997 and carried out the audit for the financial year 1996.
The Director presented the objectives, programme and activities carried out, under way or planned.
In order to facilitate the work of the Court, the accounts and all relevant supporting documents were made available to the Court.
The personnel files and the contracts concluded were also presented.
The Court forwarded its preliminary comments with a view to drawing up the report on the financial statements of the Agency (financial year 1996) in its letter No 001594 of 15 July 1997.
The Agency, which welcomes the conclusions drawn in paragraph 1.4 of the Court of Auditors' draft report, in so far as the Court states that the financial statements for the financial year 1996 were reliable and, on the whole, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions were guaranteed, would like to comment on the following paragraphs.
Paragraph 1.5.
The breakdown is complete because when the budget was being drawn up in 1995 it was not possible to plan in detail the budget requirements for the financial year 1996 and to include specific amounts; this was due to the fact that the Agency was in its start-up fashion.
As a result, 'token entry' was entered in most chapters.
Paragraph 1.6.
It is true that there is no documentary evidence to show that the Administrative Board of the Agency approved the amendments to the initial budget for 1996.
In order to avoid a similar situation in the future it was agreed, at the meeting of the Bureau of the Administrative Board on 5 and 6 June 1997, that the minutes of meetings would include, in addition to the account of the discussions at meeting, a document explaining the formal decisions taken, in order to facilitate their withdrawal.
Paragraph 1.7.
The Agency does not intend to use additional software for its budget accounts and it is not intended to use Excel.
In order to overcome this, the Agency has joined forces with the other Agencies to analyse the feasibility of an integrated software package such as the prototype of the beta version of SI2 provided by the European Commission.
Moreover, the Agency is following with interest the progress of the software being developed by Cedefop in Thessaloniki, which would appear to meet our needs as it makes a budget and accounting management module as well as human resource management modules.
The Bilbao Agency will take a decision before the end of the year on the installation of one system or another, depending on the results of tests using both systems and the opinion of the superior bodies (Financial Controller and Court of Auditors).
The Agency is doing all it can to improve the administration of its improve account and in September 1997 installed the RAI software with the assistance of the EMCDDA in Lisbon.
Paragraph 1.8.
In order to make good the deficit calculated by the Court of Auditors, the Agency acquired Cubic software in June 1997 which, the training of the competent staff having been completed, is already being used to keep the general accounts.
Paragraph 1.9.
It is true that the implementation of the budget for 1996 was extremely affected by the delay in the recruitment of the Director and staff for the administration unit of the Agency.
The said staff were only registered in May 1997, when the head of the unit and two assistants (a computer expert and a financial officer) took up their posts.
This means that the gradual introduction of all the systems necessary to ensure sound financial management (staff management, budget and accounting management, conclusion of contracts and general services) did not begin until after the said date.
Paragraph 1.10.
At the time of the negotiations on the seat of the Agency the Basque Government and the County of Vizcaya committed themselves to pay 75 % of the cost of the rent of the office building obtained by the Agency.
♪Despite the ♪ ♪Despite the ♪ ♪Despite the ♪ ♪Despite the ♪ ♪Despite the ♪
29. 12.97 1 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/63 absence of an agreement signed between the Agency and the Basque authorities to this effect, the Basque Government has, as of September 1997, paid the Agency a subsidy of Pta 20 million and the County of Vizcaya has initiated the necessary procedures for the payment of its subsidy of Pta 10 million.
Paragraph 1.11.
In accordance with the provisions of its Financial Regulation, the Agency is doing all it can to make good the deficits pointed out by the Court of Auditors as regards public contracts and has recently submitted a draft Regulation for the creation of an ACPC for the opinion of the Financial Controller at the Commission and to the Court of Auditors for information; the Regulation is based, as far as possible, on the models adopted by the other Agencies.
As regards the contracts for the procurement of goods and services concluded by the Agency, notably since the audit concluded by the Court in May 1997, it should be pointed out that invitations to tender always been issued, even where the value of the estimated expenditure would have been allowed private treatment.
The Agency would like to assure the Court that it is doing all it can to acquire, as quickly as possible, all the means necessary to carry out the improvements indicated by the Court of Auditors.
It would ask the Court to take account of the difficulties it has had in its start-up phase in respecting in full the rules of arrangement from Financial and other Regulations to which all its activities should be subject.
NOTICE TO READERS In 1998 several changes to the Official Journal (OJ) L & C subscription will be included.
This notice aids to help paying subscribers make an informed choice about the new options.
EU LAW SERVICE Starting in January 1998, the full text (included tables and graphics) of new editions of the OJ L & C will be available in all 11 languages free of charge on the Internet (http://europa.eu.int) for a period of 20 days.
OJ L&C CD-ROM In 1998 a CD-ROM version of the OJ L & C will be published in quarterly, cumulative, single-language editions.
Current subscribers to the OJ L & C who purchase the CD-ROM subscription in addition to the paper or microfiche version or CELEX will benefit from a promotional discount of 50% on the CD-ROM.
A LAN option will be available.
Personal copies of each CD-ROM can this be purchased. Personal copies of each CD-ROM can be purchased.
FLAT FEE SUBSCRIPTION TO CELEX In Spring 1998 a flat fee subscription to CELEX will be available, offering one year's access at a fixed price (ECU 960), independent of consumption.
CELEX is the EU's official legal database offering unparalleled coverage of EU legislation since 1951 (http://europa.eu.int/celex).
PENALTIES FOR LATE RENEWALS OF PAPER SUBSCRiption Despatch of the paper version of the OJ L & C will be stopped on 31 January 1998 to all paying subscribers who have not renewed their subscription by then.
Subscribers starting or renewing a subscription to the OJ L & C after this date may choose: (i) not to receive retroactive despatch of missing editions, and pay only for months received; (ii) to receive the CD-ROM version of the missing editions, and pay the normal annual subscription fee; (iii) to receive the paper version of the missing editions, and pay double for each month requiring retroactive despatch.
Please note it is now possible to purchase all versions of subscription to the Official Journal L & C (paper, microfiche, off-line and CELEX) from any member of the EUR,-OP sales networks, except document delivery agents.
Please contact your sales agent for further details on the above.
Price ECU 'L + C' paper version η 700 L •L + C' Recruitment microfiches notes (*) () 595 microfiches notes (*) 595 ci 30 ) OJ Supplement (notes and public contracts) calendar year 1997 1 C) crofiches notes (*) () 595 OJ Supplement (Nictency and public contracts) calendar year 1997 1 it32 33 i 33 s 33 chwi64 pages pages 6, 50 13 i ch) More than 64 pages Price determined case by case BELGIUMUE/BELGIE Moniteur beige/Belgisch Staatsblad Rue de Louvain 40 miuvenseweg 40 b) 42 Β y 1000 Bnjxelles/Bnisel Tél.
(332.22) 552 22 11 Fax (332.22) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan (3.22.02) 552 22 11 Fax (3.202) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B.2.1060 Bruxelles/Brussels Tél.
532.2) 538 51 69 Fax (332.22) 538 08 41 E single email: jean.de.lannoy @ infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 247 B. 1040 Bruxelles/Brussels Tél.
(32 W?2) Κ 26 39 Fax 32 W?2 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/ S Herstedvang 10 W? 12 DK W? 2620 Albertslund Tlf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 E confidentiality: schultz@sultz.dk URL: www. schultz. dk GERMANY Bundesweiter Verlag Breiter Straße 78 wieder80 Postfach 10 05 34 D wiederk Köln Tel.: +45 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 E writ: schultz@sultz.dk URL: www. schultz.dk GERMANY Bundesweiter Verlag Verlag Breiße Straße 78. 80 Postfach 10 05 34 D. 50667 Köln Tel.
(49 visited 221) 20 29... (49...221) 20 29 278 GREEECE/Ε Λ ΛΑ ΛΑ G. C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR. versteckt105 64 Athens Tel.
(304.21) 33141 80/ 1/ 2/ 3 Fax (30.21) 323 98 21 Elevomail: elebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνές Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR0405 64 Αβηνσ Τηλ.
(30 • 3314180/ 1/ 3 Τέλεφαξ (30 Ausland 1 ) 323 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37 E E φα28001 Madrid Tel.
(34141) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (341.41) 575 39 98 E) mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: www.tsai.es/mprensa Britain Oficdal del Estado Trafalgar, 27 B.29 E...28071 Madrid Tel.
488 34 92 Fax (343.3) 487.76 59 FRANCE Journal officiel Service des publications des CE 26, rue Desaix F. 75727 Paris Cedex 15 Tél.
(33 tourists) 40 58 77 01/31 Fax 33/31 40 58 77 00 IRELAND Government Supplys Agency Publications Section 4 (Norway) 5 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel.
(353 inclusions) 661 31 11 Fax 353....1 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/ 1 Casella postale 552 1 27 125 Firenze Tel.
64 54 15 Fax (39 54 55) 64 12 57 E informed: licosa@ftbcc. it URL: icl382. cilea. it/ Virtual_Library/Library/vetrina/ licosa/ tt1. htm GRANDDUCHÉ DE LUXEM BOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L. 2411 Luxembourg Tél.
(352) 40 10 20 Fax (352) 490 661 Angels: mdl@PT.lu Subscriptions: Messages Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L. 2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlagsz 666 und Universitâtsbuchhandlung Gmbh Siebenbrunnengasse 21 Postfach 1 A ch1050 Wien Tel.
53 161 334/340 Fax (43...1) 53 161 339 E overrun: ausfuhr@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net: 81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional overrun, Casa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ A. 1050 Lisboa Codex Tel.
(351. safe) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (351...1) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlnen Kirjakauppa / Akademiaska Bokhandeln Pohjoisesplanadi 39/ Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN.00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
(358 separate) 121 41 Fax (358 proposed) 415 440 35 Ej. mail: acatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB traktorvagen 11 PO Box 200 S. 22100 Lund Tel.
(46 ̊46) 18 00 00 Fax (46 46 modified) 18 01 25 E Mehrjahresmail: btj_tc@mail. btj. se URL: www. btj. se/ media/ eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agence Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.: UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agence Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.
(44 in 171) 873 9090 Fax (44 in 171) 873 8463 URL: www.tne w. stations w:.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blondal Skólavördustig, 2 IS w: writ.:: (354) 55 560 NORGE NIC Info A/ S Ostenioveien 18 Boxes 6512 E tterstad N writ.:... writ... wi... wi... wi... wi... wi... wi.k.
(47 WR) 97 45 00 Fax (47 WR) 97 45 45 45 SCHWEIZ/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH WR8035 Zürich Tel. (47 WR/EC) 97 45 45 45 SCHWEIZ/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH.8035 Zürich Tel.
365 53 15 Fax (41 amended1) 365 54 11 E unentbehrlichmail: ur.leimbacher® ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKA RE PUBLICA NIS CR C. C. C. ch unentbehrlich Prodejna Konviktskâ 5 j113 57Praha1 Tel.: +3 5 11 365 53 15 Fax (41 amended) 315 54 11 E. mail: ur. leimbacher® ecs.osec. inet. ch: www.osec.ch CESKA RE PUBLICA NIS CR jna Konviktskâ 5..1113 5Pracha1 Tel.
(42 bad) 24 22 94 33 Fax (42.42.22) 24 22 94 33 E.E. E. mail: nkposp@dec.nis. cz' URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, Grivas Digenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY E.1509 Nicosia Tel.: +30 2 415 422 442 94 33 Fax (42.422) 24 22 94 33 E. mail: nkposp@dec.nis. cz' URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, Grivas Digenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY 1509 Nicosia Tel.
44 95 00/ 46 23 12 Fax (357..2) 361.044 E 731mail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hâz Margitsziget PO Box 475 Hrus. 1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(36..) 11 16 061/11 16 216 Fax (36...) 302 50 35 E. j. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e.
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polona Krakowskie Przemiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL. 00. 00. Polara Warszawa Tel.
(48 debts) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dünya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad.
(90 w wi (212) 251 91 96 (90 wi (312) 427 02 10 Fax (90 wi (212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress wije Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel.
(1 of this type) 741 54 39 Ej mail: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/enouf EGYPT The Middle E ast Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.
(81 markets and 33 markets) 3234 69 21 Fax (81: 33) 3234 69 15 E (: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi.japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146 Sandten Tel.
(27 referring to 11) 883 37 37 Fax (27 referring to 11) 883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611 to F Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) Eone-mail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MEXICO Mundl. Prensa Mexico, SA de CV RioPânuco, 141 Delegación Cuauhtemoc ME e06500 México DF Tel.
553 56 58pilk 514 67 99 E-mail: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please address yourself to the sales office of your choice 95 (Libras) / 15 (Suscnpciones) 49 (Libras) / 14 (Suscripciones) Euromedia Str.
(40 to 71) 210 44 01/ 414 06 64 Fax (4014) 210 44 01/ 312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Kniznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO Ncka 81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.: (40 to 31) 210 44 44 01/ 3114 06 64 Fax (40.1) 210 44 01/ 312 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Slovenska Technician Kniznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO SLO. 81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(4242 w 7) 53 18 364 Fax (42 w 7) 53 18 364 E w eurap@tbb1. sltk. stuba. sk SLOVENIA Economic Vestnik Zarozniska concentrates d. d.
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 Email: belick@gvestnik.si URL: www.gvestnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
546 14 23 Fax (972 wi.3) 546 14 42 Ej. mail: raiil@netvision. net. il Subj. agent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 11931/2008 Moscow Tel.: (.pl: +495) 135 52 27 Fax: 095) 135 52 27 S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S
The Office/Journal of the European Communities and all other European Communications publi abgezinst shares on sale, whether periodic or otherwise, may be ordered at the sales offices listed below.
N.B.: The subscription to the Official Journal of the European Communities also includes the 'Directory of Community Legislation in Force and other Acts of the Community Institutions' (two editions per year). (*) Only joint subscription (including delivery) are available to the L (Registration) and C (Information and notices) series of the Official Journal of the European Communities. (**) The notes of open competition, which are published as notes to the C series, are basically available free of charge from the Commission's offices in the Member States.
For regular delivery of all notices of competition on a subscription basis a charge is made to cover postage.
S funds S. AND SUBSCRIPTIONS S.U.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S. S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S. S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S
(359 submitted an application for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation for a marketing authorisation not exceeding 30 years or for a marketing authorisation not exceeding 30 years or a marketing authorisation not exceeding 30 years or for a marketing authorisation not exceeding 30 years or a marketing authorisation not exceeding 30 years.
(185 ja1) 43 03 92 Fax (185 ja) 44 40 ROMANIA 59
C 309/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Annual Report of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2006 with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/11) STATEMENT OF THE PROPOSAL...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 63 REIMBURSEMENT.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
7 63 Tables 1 to 4................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
64 Agency replies..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/63 INTRODUCTION 1.The Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 [1].
The Agency's tasks are to collect and disseminate information on national and Community priorities in the field of health and safety at work, to support the relevant national and Community institutions in the formulation and implementation of relevant actions and to inform on the implementation of health and safety at work.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year 31 December 2006 [3] were drawn up in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 by its Director and forwarded to the Court, which, in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, and, in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, the Court, which, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, (EC) No 2062/94, (EC) Nos (EC) Nos (-) and (EC) Nos (EC) Nos (EC) No..., (EC) Nos (EC) Nos 2062/94 and (EC) Nos (EC) Nos (EC) and (EC) Nos (EC) Nos (EC) and (EC) Nos (EC) Nos (EC) No... (EC) Nos (EC) No... (EC) Nos (EC) No... (EC) (EC) No 2062/94 (EC) (EC) No) Nos (EC) No)
6. The Court provides a useful basis for the following information on compliance.
Responsibility for the Agency's accounts The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 shall be sealed in all material respects.
The following comment does not call into question the Court's explanation of compliance.
NOTE 7. In 2006, the Director signed 19 decisions on the amount of approximately EUR 880 000 for the purpose of approving the appropriations from the article to the article under the chapters.
Contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation [4], the Management Board has not received the necessary information.
Therefore, the principle of the specialist's budget was not strictly respected.
Fleasingr Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER PrÅsident (1) OJ L 174, 17.7.1999, p. 1.
(3) The annual accounts were registered on 2 July 20074 June 2007.
(4) Article 23 of the Financial Regulation.
C 309/64 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community competence under the Treaty (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994, as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 of 24 June 2005) Management structure of the 1st Administrative Council of the Agency for 2006 (data for 2005) Objectives.Social principles Objectives.......Management....General principles...... Objectives......Management... Objectives........ (Management Board.....) 1...... (data for 2005)..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
▁PCB In order to ensure compliance with the Treaty and with subsequent programmes for occupational safety and health, to improve, in particular, the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on national and Community priorities as well as on studies; the health and safety composition of workers, of EUR 14,1 million (EUR 13,7 million) in order to achieve the objectives set out in Article 136, in particular as regards: (a) improving the working environment to protect workers' health and safety; (b) improving working conditions (...) with a view to improving workers' safety and health, the Agency shall seek to ensure that all relevant technical, scientific and economic information in the field of safety and health of workers is distorted.
In order to promote cooperation and exchange of information, including information on training programmes, including information from each Member State, with regard to one representative of workers' organisations from each Member State, the dissemination of information: (exclusion from Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) the provision of information on the formulation and implementation of an effective policy for the Community institutions and the Member States, in particular with regard to the impact on SMEs, 2. The Management Board on 31 December 2006: for third generation information services on safety and health at work. Source: The Agency's data.
organised crime; worth the help; ï the next representative of each group and the Commission; ï the representative of each group and the Commission.
26 (20) other positions (assistance posts, seconded national experts, national staff) and participation in the development of strategies and possible Community action programmes;? the preparation and implementation of decisions of the Management Board.
4. Committee Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 1 Government representative in each Member State, including: a trilateral structure in the Agency's networks; one representative of employers from each Member State; one representative of employers from each Member State; one representative from each Member State; one representative from each Member State; one representative from the Community; one representative from the Community, DG Employment, Social Affairs and Gender Equality: 93.5% (96%); one from the institutional community in the candidate countries (the Phare programmes).
Yes, that's right. Yes, that's right, that's right. Yes, that's right, that's right. Yes, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right.
400000 Information material for national campaigns and campaigns under the European Week 2006 (for young workers) and 2007 (MSE); Information material for older workers, OSH and OSH (for OSH) and for economic performance in the HORECA sector; 3. The Director, on a proposal from the Commission, on a proposal from the Commission, shall consist of: on operational results: on risk-related information material, including reports on research priorities in the field of OSH, biological materials for work and ultraviolet radiation; on a proposal from the Commission, on a proposal from the Commission, on a proposal from the Commission, on stress, skin problems as well as muscle and skeletal diseases in young workers under the European Week 2006 and 2007, on the collection of data on energy efficiency research results for young workers as part of the European Week for 2006 and 2007.
42 (35), during administrative matters: compulsory consultation of the Commission and the Advisory Committee on Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work under the Work Programme.
5. External audit of the Court of Auditors.
6. The European Parliament shall, on the recommendation of the Council, grant discharge.
Tip 4 of the decisions of October 4 of the October 4 of the October 4 of the October 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the beginning and 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st and 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st and 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st and 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 4 of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 4 of the 1st of and the 1st of 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 4 of the 1 and of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 4 of 1st of the 1st of the 4 of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of the 1st of 1st of 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of the 1st of the 1st of the 1st of 1st of
At this point, in order to obtain an appropriate picture, the value of EUR 518 000 is appropriate.
This table presents the Agency's final data in 2006 in the Agency's summary table (s) of operational activities (c = a. b) of operational activities (risk and liabilities) 63 1 981 2 044 58 2 448 2 507 of financial expenditure (d) of operating activities (losses) of non-economic activities (e = d) of non-economic activities (f = c + e) Total financial result of non-economic activities (e) of non-economic activities (f = c + e) Total operating liabilities (a) of 2006 (a) of operational activities (EUR 1 000) (EUR 1 000) of Table 2 of the European Agency for Safety and Health (Bilbao) of non-economic activities (Filbao) of operating activities (F in 2005) for the implementation of the F (f) budget in 2006 for operational activities.
The revenue collected and payments collected shall be determined in accordance with the accounting method based on the cashier.
Table 3 Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Krill in the light of economic performance in the 2006 and 2005 financial years European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) in the light of economic performance in 2006 and 2005 European Agency for Safety and Health (Bilbao) in the light of financial results on 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005. Source: Information provided by the Agency in this table: Data provided by the Agency in the Agency's annual accounts.
C 309/66 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 1.
Since July 2007, the Management Board shall be notified by all members of the Management Board of the funds of the Agency's extract.
C 311/50 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 ANNUAL REPORT Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Official Journal of the European Union Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/08) CONTENTS................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
THE COMMITMENT OF THE DISCUSSION.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Tables 1 to 4..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
52 Agency's replies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/51 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 [1].
The Agency's tasks are to collect and disseminate information on national and Community priorities in the field of safety and health at work, to assist the national and Community institutions concerned in the formulation and implementation of the relevant actions and to inform them of preparatory actions.
Article 185 (2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 [2] provides that.
4. The Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 [3] were drawn up by its Director and forwarded to the Court.
5. The Court has carried out an assessment of compliance with the international standards for the highest controls (ISSAI) and with international professional rules (IFAC) (I) (IFAC) (I) (VI) (i) (i) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (
6. The Court shall be responsible for providing an adequate basis for the following security information: the provision of the Agency's accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be as valid as justified.
Court of Auditors V INTERESTED Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President (1) OJ L 143, 20.5.2000, p. 1.
(3) The accounts were drawn up on 24 June 2008 and received by the Court on 26 June 2008.
(4) ISSAI (International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions); IFAC (International Federation of Accounts).
C 311/52 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Community competence under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Governance structure 1. 2007 Administrative Board of Measures (2006 data) Products and services (2006 data) Social provisions Objectives Objectives Final budget: Linking and networking: The Community and the Member States (...) aim to improve living and working conditions (...) to adapt to progress (...).
In order to achieve the objectives set out in Article 136, the Community shall support and support, in particular, measures to protect the health and safety of workers in the following areas: (a) to improve the working environment, in particular improving safety at work; (b) working conditions;
(Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) (Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty)
(C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C)) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C)) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (CAT) (C) (C) (C) (C) (CAT) (
Total number of employees: 63 (59), of which: 47 (42) Administrative matters: 9 (9) Other: 7 (8) Verification and evaluation: 2005 evaluation report on the ăSchluss campaign of L arrm. ch...; online survey with website users; comparative analysis of the website.
(qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/53 Source: Data from the Agency. Community competence of the Agency pursuant to the Treaty (Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Structure of management of appropriations (data for 2006) Products and services in 2007 Task
4. The Committee on the Relative involvement of the Commission and the Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work on the work programme and on the budget.
5. External audit of the Court of Auditors.
6. The European Parliament shall, on the recommendation of the Council, grant discharge.
C 318/54 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue Revenue allocation of Community expenditure Allocation of expenditure Community revenue Allocation of expenditure Community revenue Miscellaneous revenue 14 000 430 13 000 443 Title I Staff 4 797 1 623 8 010 4 292 1 443 7 880 3 996 1 087 4 972 160 641 184 130 125 79 47 Assigned revenue 498 430 Assigned revenue 498 391 287 867 194 0 Total 14 928 13 873 14 006 10 202 3 702 1 023 2 663 2 312 351 Assigned revenue final for the financial year 498 430 Assigned revenue for the financial year 391 341 1067 68 194 0 Total Title II Administration 381 369 11 Title III Operating expenditure 2 908 1963 1 670 293 Table 2 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) for the financial year 2007 Budget for the financial year 2007 for the financial year Revenue: data from the Agency.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) (Bilbao) and in the light of economic results for the years 2007 and 2006 C 311/55 Enterprise Community subsidy Other operating costs Operating costs Other Administrative costs Operating costs Total (a) 2007 12 682 subsidy 480 13 505 3 661 137 1 991 7 in results 2006 494 in 2006 3 491 (EUR 1 000) 2006 11 730 238 1 580 13 548 3 640 139 1 825 8 028 13 632 a) 84 and 6 80 90 Total (b) C.B. C.
Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) for the provision of information at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 (EUR 1 000) 2006 71 247 4 435 27 2 990 3 774 63 1 981 2 044 1 730 1 820. 90 1 730 Investors. 1 730 Fixed assets. 44 Fixed assets. EUR 4 1 000 in 2006 Long-term assets. 1 735 27 2 990 short-term receivables. 3 774 63 1 981 2 044 Current liabilities R.
C 311/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 1. The Agency shall take note of the Court's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union IV (Information) INFORMATION to the said bodies, institutions and other bodies of the European Union, INFORMATION ON THE COURT OF COURT, THE annual report of the European Union Agency for the financial year 2017 (2018/C 434/01) (C 434/1 DE list)..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
DE C 434/2 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 LIST OF ACCESSION LISTS The K-Acceles list includes Union agencies and other bodies covered by this report.
On the day of 2013, the European authorities...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap......Aquap...Aquap...Aqua...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aqua...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquapp...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...Aquap...CoAquap...Aquap...Aqua...Aqua...Cop...Ap...Ac...Cop...Aquap...Cop...Ap...Ap......At...At...In the...At...Ac...Ac...At...Ac...At...Cot...Aquap...In the European bodies in the European bodies in the field...Cop...Inc...In the field of Energy...Inc...In the field...In the field in the field of the field...In the field...In the field of Energy...In the field of Energy...In the field of...In the field of Energy...In the field of...In the field of...In the field of...In the...In the field of...In the area of...In...In the field of...In the area of...Inc...In the field of...In the area...In...In the field of...In the field of...In the area of...In the field of...In the field of Energy...In the field of...In the field of...In the field of...In the field of...In the area of the field of...In the field...In the area of...In the area of the area of the area...In the area of...In the field of...In the area of the field of...In the field of European...In the field of...In the field of...In
On 30 November 2018, the European Union, 30 November 2020, na... na..., na., na., na. PaDC.. na. A. ECEA ESMA EUA EUIPO eu-LISA Euratom Eurofound ESMA FRA Frontex GSA REA SRB C 434/3 Full name European Union Agency for Training and Training in the field of prosecution European Union Agency for Railway Agency for the European Union, for the European Union, European Agency for the Management of Operational Information Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice European Agency for Safety and Health at the workplace European Agency for Safety and Health at the workplace European Union Agency for Safety and Health Protection in order to improve living and working conditions European Railway Agency European Agency for Safety and Environment European Agency for Safety and Health in the European Environment Agency, Agency for the Management and Protection of the Environment, European Agency for Safety and Health at the workplace of the European Agency for the European Union, p. for the European Union, p., p. in the European Union, p. on 30th European Union, p., p. on 30th, p. on p. on the Functioning. on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the European Union, on the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, p. on the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on 30th, on 30th, 30th, 30th. p. p. on 30th, p. on the Functioning on 30th, on 30th, p. p. pa. on 30th, on the p. pa. p. pa. on the European Union, on 30th...
DE C 434/4 Official Journal of the European Union CHAPTER 1 EU Agencies and Court INTRODUCTION AND INTRODUCTION
The decentralised agencies deal with the specific policy needs of the Commission executive agencies of the EU programmes..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
THE COURT COURT REFERRED.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
30.11.2018 Page 1.1-1.3 5 1.4-1.21 5 1.4-1.14 5 1.8-1.9 7 1.10 8 1.11-1.14 8 1.151.20 8 1.21 13 1.22-1.32 13 1.22-1.24 13 1.25-1.32 13
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/5 INTRODUCTION 1.1.
In accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (1), the European Court of Auditors is the European Union's external financial institutions.
To this end, the Court acts as an independent guarantor of the financial interests of Union citizens, in particular in helping to improve the financial management of the EU.
More detailed information on the Court's work can be found in its annual activity reports and annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget, as well as in the special reports, the Landscape analyses and the opinions on new or revised EU legislation or other measures affecting financial management (2).
In the framework of its mission, the Court shall draw up the annual accounts and reports of all the institutions, agencies and other bodies of the Union on which they are based on the annual accounts and reports of all the institutions, agencies and other bodies of the Union (3) every three years.
This report sets out the results that the Court has achieved in the preparation of EU agencies and other Union bodies (hereinafter referred to as "the Agencies and the Agencies') in the financial year 2017.
The report is presented as follows: Chapter 1 gives an overview of the agencies and the way in which the Court is responsible.. Chapter 2 of Chapter 2 sets out the general results of the work as follows. is presented, in respect of each of the 41 agencies, as follows, and together with the Court's opinions, in relation to the way in which the agencies are cleared as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying revenues and payments.
EU AGENCIES Different types of agencies contribute to the formulation and implementation of EU policies in 1.4.
Agencies are separate bodies of their own legal personality, expressing themselves by means of an exceptional act to carry out specific technical, scientific or administrative missions, so as to assist in shaping and implementing the policies of the EU institutions.
Many agencies are clearly visible and have a significant impact on important areas that are important for Europe's citizens' daily lives, such as health, security, freedom and justice.
Chapter 3 provides a concise description of the tasks performed by each agency.
In this report, the Agencies shall use their own structures, which can be found on the list at the beginning of this report.
There are three types of agencies: decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other agencies.
Their main features are visible below.
The number of agencies increased over the years and in 2017 amounted to 41 agencies, as illustrated in 1.1.
(1) Articles 285 to 287 (OJ C 326, 26.10.2012, p. 169-171).
(2) Available on the Court's website: www.eca.europa.eu (3) Three defence agencies (European Defence Agency, European Union Institute for Security Studies and the European Union Satellite Centre) financed by the assistance of the Member States are not audited by the Court but by other independent external agencies.
DE C 434/6 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.1 The increase in the number of agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Commission's executive agencies shall have their seat in Brussels and Luxembourg, as shall the Commission.
The decentralised agencies and other bodies are located across the EU and are located in 23 different Member States, as shown in the list in the EQF and illustration 1.2.
The seat of the Agency shall be the Council or the Council and the European Parliament together.
Directorate-General for External Relations, Directorate-General for External Relations, Directorate-General for External Relations, Directorate-General for External Relations and Directorate-General for External Relations, Directorate-General for External Relations, European Commission, European Commission, Directorate-General for External Relations, Directorate-General for External Relations, Directorate-General for External Relations, European Commission, Directorate-General for External Relations and European Commission, Directorate-General for External Relations, European Commission, European Commission, Directorate-General for External Relations, European Commission, European Commission, European Commission and European Commission.
The decentralised agencies address specific policy needs 1.8.
32 decentralised agencies (4) play an important role in the development and implementation of EU policies, in particular in the field of technical, scientific, operational and/or regulatory tasks.
This is mainly about meeting specific policy needs and strengthening European cooperation by strengthening the expertise and expertise of the EU and national governments.
The decentralised agencies have been set up for an indefinite period by a Regulation of the Council or of the European Parliament and of the Council.
The decentralised agencies shall operate under the control of the Management Board, which shall consist of representatives of the Member States, the Commission and certain agencies, including other parties.
The Governing Board shall define the operational framework to be respected by the agencies, such as the multiannual and annual work programme, the budgets and the places of employment to be used by the relevant executive directors/directors.
Each decentralised agency shall be subject to a separate discharge procedure in respect of the implementation of the budget, which shall include personnel, administrative and operational expenditure.
(4) Cedefop, Eurofound, EEA, ETF, EMA, EMCDDA, CdT, CPVO, EUIPO, EU-OSHA, FRA, EASA, EFSA, EMSA, Eurojust, ECDC, ENISA, ERA, Frontex, GSA, EPA, EFCA, ECHA, EIGE, ACER, B CA, EASA, EBA, EIOPA, ESMA and eu-LISA.
5. The two self-financing agencies (CPVO and EUIPO) are subject to the discharge procedure by the Management Board of these agencies.
DE C 434/8 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Commission executive agencies for EU programmes by 1.10.
6 Commission executive agencies (http://ec.europa.eu/economy/economic/economic/economic/s/s/seconomic/s/s/sport/scc/sec/sec/sec/sec/sec/sec/sec/sec/sec/sec/sec/sc/sc/sc_sc_sc_sc_sc_sc_sc_s_sc_s_sec_s_s__s___s___s_____sc___s_____s______s____s____s___s___s____s___s___s__s__s_s__s___s____s____sc_____s__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
They have been established by a Commission Decision and operate under the supervision of a steering committee established by the Commission.
Their work shall be based on multiannual and annual work programmes prepared and carried out under the responsibility of the Executive Director.
They are subject to individual discharge procedures by the European Parliament and the Council with regard to their own budgets.
Unlike decentralised agencies, their budgets cover only staff and administrative expenditure, while all the operational expenditure they cover comes from the Commission's budget and therefore forms part of the overall discharge granted to the Commission.
The budget of the executive agencies therefore only corresponds to a very small part of the budget that they will actually implement.
Other institutions have specific tasks 1.11.
The other three entities are the EIT, the Euratom Supply Agency and the SRB.
The EIT in Budapest is an independent and decentralised EU institution that uses resources in the fields of science, the economy and education in order to strengthen innovation in the Union by providing financial assistance.
The Institute was established by the European Parliament and the Council for an indefinite period.
It shall be managed by the Director and supervised by the Management Board and shall be subject to a special discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Euratom Supply Agency in Luxembourg has been established by the Council for an indeterminate period of time to support the objectives of the Treaty in order to consolidate the European Atomic Energy Community.
This decision shall be subject to a special discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Advisory Committee of Member States shall assist the Euratom Supply Agency in the performance of its tasks by issuing opinions and providing analyses and information.
The Director-General of the Euratom Supply Agency shall act under the supervision of the Commission.
The SRB is a central resolution authority in the Banking Union and is established in Br.
The SRB aims to organise the restructuring and orderly restructuring of bankrupt banks, which has the least impact on the real economy, the financial system and the public finances of the participating Member States, and which goes beyond what is necessary.
The SRB shall be reprented by its President, who shall also act as the recruitment body.
The Chairperson of the SRB shall be subject to a separate discharge procedure by the Committee, the members of which shall be elected by the participating Member States.
The agencies are financed from various sources and under various actions of the MFF 1.15.
The total budget of all agencies in 2017 amounted to EUR 3.5 billion (excluding SRB) (2016: EUR 3.4 billion), corresponding to around 2.7% of the total EU budget for 2017 (2016: 2.4 percent), as shown in Figure 1.3.
In 2017, high growth agencies are GSA and EIT financed under sub-heading 1a of the MFF (7) (competitiveness in growth and employment), as well as Frontex, EMA and EASO, financed under the MFF 3 (security and citizenship).
In addition, the 2017 SRB budget of EUR 6.6 billion (2016: EUR 11.8 billion) of EUR 6.6 billion (2016) (8).
It shall consist of advisers paid by credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund.
(6) INEA, REA, EACEA, ERCEA, Chafea and EASME.
(7) The EU Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020.
(8) The 2016 revenue budget consisted not only of contributions from credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund for 2016, but also of contributions for 2015, which were collected by the National Resolution Groups in 2015, but were only transferred to the Fund in January 2016.
Therefore, the general budget for 2017 is much lower than the budget for 2016 (EUR 6.6 billion compared to EUR 11.8 billion).
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/9 1.17.
The budgets of decentralised agencies and other bodies cover staff, administrative and operational expenditure, while the executive agencies are responsible for programmes financed by the Commission budget and their own budgets (a total of around EUR 241 million) cover only personnel and administrative expenditure.
The Commission's operational expenditure incurred by six executive agencies amounted to approximately EUR 6.8 billion in 2017, representing more than twice the total budget of all other agencies, without the SRB.
Figure 1.3 Sources of funding for the Agency in 2017 Source: EU total for 2017 and Agency budgets for 2017, data collected by the European Court of Auditors.
Most agencies, including executive agencies, are almost fully funded by the EU budget.
Other agencies are fully or partially financed by agencies, including Member States, EFTA States, etc., in whole or in part by agencies, including Member States, EFTA States and Member States, etc. in the EU budget of a total of EUR 2.5 billion and EUR 1 billion in procurement and remuneration, as well as directly by participating States.
Figure 1.4 shows that the agencies, according to the amount of contributions received, are supplemented by the EU budget.
EN C 434/10 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.4 Agencies according to the size of the contribution from the EU budget Source: Agencies, data collected by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/11 1.19.
EUR 2.5 billion from the EU budget will be financed under the various MFF programmes, as illustrated by 1.5.
Picture 1.5 Funding of the agencies under the MFF of the EU general budget Source: EU multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and agencies' 2017 budgets, data collected by the European Court of Auditors.
As regards staff, by the end of 2017, approximately 11 000 employees were employed by agencies [9] (2016: 10 300), representing approximately one sixth of the staff employed by EU institutions and agencies as a whole.
Illustration 1.6 results from an increase in the number of employees in the various agencies.
9. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
EN C 434/12 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.6 At the end of 2017, broken down by agency, human resources, broken down by agency, source: Agencies, data collected by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/13 The network of EU agencies supports cooperation and communication with stakeholders 1.21.
The EU agency network (EUAN) has been set up by the agencies as a forum for cooperation for agencies to increase the visibility, to identify and increase their effectiveness, and to increase their effectiveness and added value.
EUAN shall work on the basis of the priorities set by the Agencies in the five-year strategic programme for the period 2015-2020 and on the basis of annual work programmes which identify the opportunities and results to be achieved.
EUAN plays an important role in ensuring effective communication between agencies and stakeholders Mainly with EU institutions As a rule, the EU plays an important role in ensuring effective communication between agencies and stakeholders.
THE COURT'S FACT The mission of the Court consists of the annual report and the agency's report and the agency's responsibilities and responsibilities and responsibilities and of the Court's mission consists of the annual report and the agency's annual report and the agency's annual report and the agency's annual report and the agency's report............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. and
In Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court (a) analysed the annual accounts of all the agencies, including the annual accounts[10], the accounts for the implementation of the budget [11] f for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017, and (b) on the regularity and regularity of the annual accounts underlying the annual accounts.
On the basis of the results of its work, the Court shall report to the European Parliament and the Council and to the other discharge authorities referred to in Chapter 3 of this report to each agency on the correctness of the accounts and the regularity and regularity of the accounts.
Article 208 (4) of the EU Financial Regulation [12] provides that the annual accounts of the 32 agencies receiving financial assistance from the EU budget have been drawn up by independent external experts from the EU budget.
The Court examined the importance of the results of this study, the importance of the international audit standards and the compliance with its own opinions.
The Court relied on the identified risk 1.25.
In order to obtain reasonable assurance, the Court has drawn up a study to examine the main identified risks and, with regard to the solvency of the Agency, with regard to the solvency of the Agency, there is at all a small risk of 1.26.
In general, the Court considers that the risks associated with the increase of accounts for all agencies are low....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The number of significant errors identified in the past was small.
Title I (Employment expenses) 1.28.
The management by the PMO (office for the identification and management of the Commission's individual proposals) is subject to review by the Court in its detailed evaluation of administrative expenditure.
In recent years, no significant errors have been identified in relation to staff expenditure.
However, if agencies have to employ additional staff in the short term in large numbers, there is an average or high risk of the legality and regularity of recruitment procedures.
(10) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, and a summary of the recognised accounting bases and other summary.
(11) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure and expenditure and expenditure reviews.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
DE C 434/14 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Title II (administrative expenditure) 1.29.
Contracts for different services (as the number of persons involved in IT services increases) include complex public procurement rules and procedures, and the agency administration sometimes does not provide satisfactory transparency and not the best quality of procurement procedures.
Serious errors in the award of contracts affecting payment terms were in general one of the main errors in public procurement in respect of which the Court gave its opinion and opinion.
Title III (operational expenditure) 1.30.
There are small or high risks.
This may depend on the type and type of operational expenditure of the agency concerned.
Overall, the risks associated with the award of the contract are comparable to those of Title II, but given that the risks associated with the award of the contract are likely to occur to a greater extent.
As regards grants paid under Title III of the budget, the previous work concluded that, despite the overall improvement, the agency's controls were not always fully effective.
There are average risks associated with the cost-effectiveness of the budget, which has, in principle, been established in the field of IT and public procurement.
The Court has already set out its findings on the different IT areas in the agencies, weaknesses in the management of IT projects, and procurement procedures which did not guarantee the best quality and quality of procurement procedures.
Overall, there are many small agencies (see illustrations 1.4 and 1.6), which have their own administrative structures and procedures, which pose risks to management efficiency.
RESULTS OF 2017 IN THE YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR
Incoherent judicial decisions on the compliance of accounts with all agencies..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The absolute emphasis on facts is fundamental within the meaning of the annual financial statements..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Court's observations cover a number of topics....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Special ReportHofes of the SSRB Principles....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
DE C 434/16 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 INTRODUCTION 2.1.
This chapter provides an overview of the results of the annual work of the Agency undertaken by the Court in 2017 and further work undertaken in connection with the agencies carried out by the Court in 2017.
RESULTS OF 2017 OF THE YEAR OF THE YEAR OF THE YEAR OF THE LAST OF THE THE YEAR OF THE LAST PHYSICAL POSITIVE LAWS.
In general, the Court, in respect of the Agency's annual accounts, in the year ending 31 December 2017 and in respect of the revenue and payments underlying those annual accounts, recognises the positive results of the previous years.
The Court issued inconsistent opinions on the annual accounts of all the agencies.
On the basis of their assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall, at 31 December 2017, present their financial position and financial position, as well as the results of its forecast and cash flows as at 31 December 2017, in all material respects, the year ending on that date.
Abs  ætztze in order to highlight the facts in the main trend in the approach to the annual accounts 2.5.
With regard to EASO, the Court pointed out that the human situation in EASO had deteriorated sharply.
There are currently no administrative staff to fill many vacancies.
Overall, the situation with regard to staff has significantly improved the situation with which this situation is related.
In the case of the SRB, the Court stressed that the contributions to the Single Resolution Fund are calculated on the basis of the information that the credit institutions provide to the Committee of the Single Resolution Fund for the Single Resolution Fund.
However, the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure the consistency of this information.
The Court also found that the method of calculating the premiums laid down in the legislation is very complex, which involves a risk of accuracy.
For reasons of confidentiality, the Committee cannot make public the data of credit institutions which have been used to calculate data for the fund, which reduces transparency.
With regard to ECHA, the Court stressed that the Agency is partly financed by itself and that any company applying for the registration of chemicals under REACH has the right to be owned by an undertaking applying for the registration of chemicals under REACH[14].
The Agency shall calculate and take into account the information provided by the undertakings at the time of the application.
The Agency's ex post verification shows that serious corrections are needed which were not known at the end of 2017.
This statement shows that the system is based, to too high a degree, on too high a number of applications for authorisation that the applicants are applying for.
With regard to the GSA, the Court pointed out that one of the tenderers contested the outcome of the tendering procedure on the basis of one of the Agency's most important communications (a framework agreement worth EUR 1,5 billion).
As regards the two London agencies (EMA and EBA), the Court stressed that they would leave the United Kingdom in 2019 and that their annual accounts, together with the inaugurations, were drawn up on the basis of the information available at the time of their signature.
The Court also pointed out the effects of the lease contracts currently in force in London and the possible reduction in the revenue resulting from the UK's resignation from the EU.
Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (OJ L 316, 30.12.2006, p. 1).
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/17 Incomplete decisions on the legality and regularity of the income underlying the accounts of all agencies 2.12.
For all agencies, the Court issued unsupported decisions on the legality and regularity of the annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017.
The Court found that revenue was legal and regular in all material respects.
Incoherent opinions on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the Agency's annual accounts (except EASO) 2.13.
h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
The Court assessed that payments were justified and correct in all material respects.
In view of the systematic existence of the rules, the internal control system appears unacceptable.
The total error associated with incorrect payments requires at least EUR 7,7 million or 10,3% of the total payments made by B,ro in 2017.
In order to address other issues raised on specific issues in point 2.15.
The purpose of explaining other issues is to draw the reader's attention to important issues which are neither presented nor presented in the accounts nor which concern the legal issues and regularity of revenue and payments.
With regard to the EIT, the Court concluded that, at the end of the transitional period, the initial reimbursements to the Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KWI) were increased at the end of the transitional period.
In addition, two KICs have included several new initiatives in research and innovation initiatives.
For one KIC, this led to a significant change in the initial grant decision.
Significant changes may affect the equal treatment of KICs and do not comply with the Financial Regulation.
In the case of Frontex since 2014, the Court has repeatedly referred to the fact that the cooperating countries often do not provide sufficient evidence that the expenditure has been declared by them.
It's been maximized by what happened in time.
In response to the Court's 2016 recommendation, Frontex is currently introducing a simplified cost recovery model.
With regard to EBA, EIOPA and ESMA, the Court noted that its budgets are partly financed by the European Union and partly by direct contributions by the supervisory authorities and/or supervised bodies of the EU Member States.
As a result of the UK's decision to leave the EU, the income of workers may decrease in the future.
As regards the GSA, the Court has reported that the Agency operates the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) and the Galileo ground stations in the United Kingdom to be relocated.
As regards CdT, the Court pointed out that several agencies are increasingly using at home or other alternative translations, which meant that the maximum volume of the medium at the centre is not used.
Moreover, at European level, at European level, expenditure on the development of translation systems and current costs is duplicated.
In December 2016, the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (B.4ro BEREC) entrusted the CdT with the translation of four calls for expressions of interest for the drawing up of reserve lists, despite the fact that all the positions approved by the budgetary authority were filled in the establishment plan in B.4ros.
The Court found that the translation contract awarded in December 2016 was not justified.
The amount of payment paid to this task in M in 2017 amounted to 2,5% of the 2017 budget.
EN C 434/18 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.1 L Instructions of the European Court of Auditors' opinion 2014-2017 on the Agency's annual accounts and annual accounts Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Court's observations concern a number of issues of 2.22.
The Court made a total of 145 comments on 37 agencies to highlight important issues and highlight areas for improvement.
The comments set out in Chapter 3 below are set out below.
The violent risk poses serious weaknesses of EASO 2.23.
In the case of EASO, the Court pointed out the most important risks arising from the nature of its actions and the external risks arising from the migration crisis.
This risk has not been mitigated by a robust governance structure and effective controls, which has led to a number of important messages against legislation.
Since 2014, B Abordnungro has been dealing with a large turnover of employees. Recruitment procedures were suspended in December 2017.
Moreover, B welcomes B3ro has neither internal audit authority nor legal services, and the legal documents are not systematically checked.
Almost all services which were based on public procurement or recruitment procedures were systematically distorted by significant amounts of information which were related to the determination of the needs of B to B of growths, the preparation of specifications, the selection of the type of procurement, the evaluation and the procurement, the modification and the loss of Vertragen, the acquisition of information on congestion and services, etc.
These companies are in conflict with the principles of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/19 Progress towards a more harmonised IT country 2.26.
The Agency's activities are extensive and require appropriate IT solutions, sometimes tailored to the needs.
However, key operational and administrative issues are being addressed on the basis of the same legal framework, which suggests that their procedures are being enforced and that some of them may be used to support these procedures.
While the agencies have made significant progress in the implementation and management of the budgetary and accounting systems, the Court, in its 2016 summary report, in its summary report of the Agency's work in the management and management of human resources and public procurement, has continued to benefit from the Court's work in the management and management of human resources.
Agencies shall endeavour to further harmonise information systems in these areas, in particular in order to increase cost efficiency, to reduce internal control risks and to increase IT management.
In 2017, significant progress was made in human resources management when 20 agencies concluded agreements with the Commission on the use of the SYSPER II tool, which will contribute to the creation of a more unified IT country.
Since 1 January 2019, most agencies have used the Commission's tool and have used it in some agencies since the third quarter of 2018.
In this fragmented IT country, the use of similar electronic tools for the procurement of supplies and services (e-procurement) would also be an important step towards a more harmonised IT framework among the agencies.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation, which entered into force in 2012 and 2013, all EU institutions and agencies ă
The Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation on e-procurement in 2014 are not set out in the Unarranged Time Framework Regulation, since the Public Procurement Directive, adopted in 2014 and adopted on public procurement (point 17), provides for the use of e-procurement in the EU Member States until 2018, and the e-procurement Directive (point 18) adopted in 2014, provides that by 2019 public, public, public, public, public, public, public institutions, public institutions, public institutions, public institutions and public institutions, will be required to allow e-invoicing by 2019.
(15) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) (electronic administration)
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC (OJ L 26, 26.1.2014, p. 26).
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1).
DE C 434/20 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2.29.
All agencies publish their invitations to tender electronically (TED), the online version of the EU Official Journal of the European Union for public procurement. In addition, the Commission launched electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of the procurement documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015), and most of them introduced electronic invoicing and electronic invitation to tender by the end of 2017.
Improving IT consulting and project management within EMA and within EMA and eu-LISA in IT consulting and project management within EMA 2.30.
During the preparatory work carried out in the previous year, the Court examined how the Agency manages advisory services.
Using consulting companies gathered around critical expertise from outside.
The Court also stated that the control over the development and implementation of the projects was insufficient and that there were significant differences and increases in costs in the case of projects.
In 2017, the Agency undertook a number of actions to improve the situation.
However, it takes time to reduce the agency's critical dependence on consulting firms, and the effects of the action will not be discovered until years later.
IT consulting and project management services within the framework of eu-LISA 2.32.
The Agency shall, by its nature, make use of advisory services related to IT projects.
In 2017, the Agency's IT projects were implemented within the framework of the financial and time framework.
The Agency uses the outsourcing model for the creation and implementation of IT projects, which covers approximately 90% of the work carried out by three contractors.
Although IT projects are owned and controlled by the Agency, the model in which such sensitive IT systems are outsourced carries with it the risk of dependence on contractors.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/21 2.34.
At the same time, a small number of staff in the operational premises poses a risk to business continuity.
The aim of public procurement is to ensure competition between economic operators and to ensure the most economical way of purchasing, in a transparent, objective and coherent way, on the basis of the existing legal framework.
The Court found that in 14 agencies (B BEREC, EPA, Chafea, eu-LISA, EASO, EBA, EEA, EFSA, EIGE, EUIPO, ERA, EASA, FRA and SRB) the up-to-date in the field of public procurement, mainly in relation to the services that pose a risk to the optimal use of funds.
Among the most famous are: the imbalance between price and quality aspects in relation to the award criteria, the lack of optimal framework contracts, the use of framework contracts that allow contracts for services, their description and/or price are not sufficiently defined, and the use of intermediate services. &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; & & &gt; & &gt; & & & &gt; &gt; & & & &gt; & & & &gt; & & & & &gt; & & & &gt; & & & &gt; & &gt; & &gt; & & &gt; & & & &gt; & &gt; &gt; &gt; & &gt; & &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; & &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; & &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; & &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt
Most of the agencies examined the effects of Brexit 2.36. On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to leave the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, agencies (ACER, B submitted an application in the EPA, ENISA and EU-OSHA) have not carried out a comprehensive analysis of the possible impact of Brexit on their organisations, agencies and their accounts.
Employment information can be published on EPSO's website on page 2.37. can be published on EPSO's website on EPSO's website.
Most agencies (ACER, Cedefop, EPA, Chafea, EASA, ECA, ECA, EIGE, EIOPA, EIT, EMA, EMCDDA, EMSA, ENISA, ESMA, eu-LISA, Eurojust, Europol, Frontex, GSA and SRB) publish posts on their websites and social media, but not on the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) website.
The EPSO website would provide information on transparency and publication, transparency and transparency, and would allow citizens to familiarise themselves with employment offers in all European institutions and bodies.
The main reason why the agencies call on EPSO to publish notices in all the official EU languages is the high cost of translations.
Less attention on fairness and regularity of payments 2.38.
The number of comments on the legality and regularity of payments has increased to eight (2016: 11), which indicates ongoing initiatives at the agency level to comply with the legal framework, in particular the provisions of the Financial Regulation and the framework Financial Regulation and the Staff Regulations.
The above-mentioned comments concerned complaints concerning procurement procedures (EASO, EASA, EIGE and Frontex) in three matters concerning recruitment procedures (EASO, Cedefop and Frontex).
Budgets have improved 2.39.
,, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,, a, a, a,, a, ,, a, a, a, a, a  , a, a , a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a , a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,, a, a, a a,,, a, a , a, a, a,, a, a , a, a , a, a, a,, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a
Although the Financial Regulation does not set any ceilings for such funds for such funds, for such funds, the multiannual nature of the funds largely justifies the use of funds, it does not, however, stop the imbalance in the implementation of work programmes or public procurement and may, moreover, constitute an obstacle to the principle of budgetary fairness.
The Court notes from Figure 2.4 that a number of agencies in 2017 and in previous years a high income was recorded by the Court.
On the other hand, in 2017 only two agencies (Chafea and EU-OSHA) were called for better and more transparent contributions and for better and more transparent contributions by the agencies, but also for a better and transparent approach by the Court to reporting in 2017.
(19) The terms f begin with the conclusion that, pursuant to Article 13 of the Financial Regulation, the terms f.O.S.R.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.O.O.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.O.S.O.S.O.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.O.O.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.O.S.O.S.O.S.S.O.S.S.O.S.S.O.S.S.O.O.S.O.O.S.S.O.S.O.S.S.O.S.O.O.S.S.S.O.S.S.O.S.O.O.S.S.O.S.O.S.S.S.S.O.S.O.S.O.S.O.O.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.O.S.S.S.O.S.S.O.O.O.S.O.O.O.O.S.S.S.O.S.O.O.S.O.O.S.O.O.O.O.O.O.S.S.O.O.O.O.O.S.S.S.S.S.O.S.O.O.S.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.S.O.O.O.O.S.S.S.S.O.S.O.S.S.O.O.O.S.O.O.S.S.O.O.O.S.O.O.O.O.S.O.O.O.O.O.S.O.S.O.O.S.O.O.O.O.S.S.S.S.O.O.S.
EN C 434/22 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.4 Less remarks on autonomous or high income on the basis of information provided by the agencies Source: European Court of Auditors on the basis of information provided by the agencies.
The Court also found that the two agencies (Frontex and EUIPO) of the previous years had cancelled the budgetary appropriations.
This showed that the level of expenditure was too high, in particular from the public administrations of the Member States and other cooperating countries.
Further improvement in accounting is needed 2.42.
During this work, the Court also examined the accounting rules of the agencies, which play an important role in the preparation of the annual accounts.
By using the provisions of the Financial Regulation, each agency has its own account, which means that the total of 37 accounts is responsible for 2 % of the EU budget.
The accounting officer's main tasks are to make payments, receive income and recover payments, prepare and present financial statements, draw up and present financial statements, draw up and approve invoicing systems and receive cash.
In 2012, in order to increase efficiency, the Commission's accounting officer asked all the agencies to transfer the clearing function to it on the basis of the contract.
The first authority to adopt this request was CEPOL in 2014.
Only three other agencies (GSA, B, three BEREC agencies and ACER) have joined this programme by the end of 2017.
the hierarchical position of the agency's staff may affect its independence.
In particular, the accounts must be independent of the persons who are (sub-) entitled to make commitments, take legal commitments and make payments.
This includes a total of 13 agencies (CdT, EACEA, EASA, EASTE, EEA, EFSA, EIOPA, EMA, EMCDDA, ERA, EU-OSHA, Eurofound and FRA).
The appointment and evaluation of the accounting officer shall, inter alia, fall within the remit of the Administrative Board, inter alia, within the remit of the Administrative Board.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, auditors must be aware that the agency's invoicing systems are too effective (approval).
The Court found that the accounting systems of the seven agencies (ACER, Bedro BEREC, EPA, EASME, EIT, EMA and GSA) required, in relation to a change in the joint re-evaluation.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/23 Illustration 2.5 The Agency's disagreement and re-approval of invoicing systems Source: European Court of Auditors on the basis of information provided by the agencies.
Three agencies (EASO, PVO and REA) have not documented procurement, grant and recruitment procedures.
In three agencies (ACER, EIT and Frontex), Mjngel received internal control when implementing the emergency admission standard.
In the case of disasters caused by disasters, they may pose a serious risk to the maintenance of economic activities, as data may be lost irreversibly.
Agencies continue to monitor the findings of the previous years 2.47.Siegel.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
If necessary, the Court informed the Court of the progress made on further action taken by the Agencies in response to the previous years.
Figure 2.6 shows that corrective actions related to 170 comments that had not yet been implemented at the end of 2016 have yet to be completed or completed in most cases.
Of the 13 comments that have not yet been opened, the corrective actions required for the three comments have not been examined by the Agency.
EN C 434/24 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.6 Activities of the Agency to monitor comments from previous years: the European Court of Auditors.
The Court gives OLAF all fraud... 2.48.
OLAF is then required to establish these aspects and to pursue them further, where appropriate in cooperation with national judicial authorities.
In 2017, in preparation for 1000 projects and 150 procurement procedures, the Court, in order to obtain information on the Agency, introduced three in the framework.
The Court shall provide information on the reports of the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) and the external evaluation reports 2.49.
The Court also referred to the IAS review reports and the external evaluation reports drawn up on behalf of the Commission for information purposes.
26 IAS reports were drawn up in 2017 and nine were carried out on an external evaluation of the Agency.
The Court has not carried out appropriate consultation or evaluation procedures or has not taken the appropriate evaluation or evaluation procedures.
RESULTS OF OTHER REPORTS OF THE AGENCIES OF THE CERTIFICATE OF THE RESULTS OF THE COURT'S 2017 Rapid Case Review (Rapid Case Review) OF THE COURT in order to implement the employment reduction of 5 % 2.50.
In 2017, the Court prepared a quick analysis (20) on the way in which the European Union institutions and agencies implemented a commitment to reduce the number of employees referred to in their positions in 2013-2017 by 5% in the case of agencies in the period 2014-2018.
The Court found that the agencies implemented a 5% reduction in staff, albeit with some fluctuations.
Most of most of most of most of most of most of most of them are mostly mostly most of the mostly of the majority of the majority of the majority of the mostly of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the most of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of most of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of most of the most of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of most of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of most of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of most of the most of most
In Figure 2.7, the resulting percentage changes can be seen in positions in all institutions, bodies and agencies.
(20) Rapid Case Review to implement a 5% reduction in employment, published on 21 December 2017.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/25 Illustration 2.7 Analysis of changes in the number of posts in 2012-2017 (in %) Source: European Court of Auditors.
Special Report of the Court of Justice not valued by SRB 2.51.
The Single Committee on Restructuring and Restructuring (RSB) based in Brez on August 2014 was set up in the framework of a political response to the financial crisis.
The Committee's task is to eliminate banks in difficulty that fall within its remit.
In January 2017, SRB f 1-4 and 139 banks, including 130 banking groups, continued to do so in.21.
In preparation (22), it examined whether the Committee was prepared for the effective management of banks; particular attention was paid to the quality of the resolution plan for each bank and whether the Committee was prepared to meet the legal requirements for the resolution plan and to sufficient human resources for the performance of its duties.
The Court has identified shortcomings in all these areas, but given that the creation of the Committee as a completely new structure has been a huge challenge, it can be concluded that the shortcomings in this context are significant.
The Court has made a number of recommendations to the Committee on the establishment of resolution structures and the improvement of its principles and guidelines, as well as on increasing the number of employees and improving the procedures for the management of human resources.
(21) On 1 January 2018, the number fell to 127 banks and 119 banking groups.
(22) Special Report No 23/2017: ăSingle Committee on Restructuring and Structured Restructuring: First steps have been taken on the road to the Banking Union, but this remains a long way to go... what will be published on 19 December 2017.
DE C 434/26 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Court Special Annual Report on contingent obligations arising from the implementation of the Single Committee on Restructuring and Restructuring 2.54.
In accordance with the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation (23), the Court has to report on any contingent obligations arising from the implementation by the Committee, the Council and the Commission of the obligations arising from this Regulation.
As of 31 December 2016, the Committee's conditional liabilities resulting from the pre-taxed contributions amounted to EUR 842 million, which, on 30 September 2017, increased to EUR 1 420 million.
The Commission therefore considers that, in this case, the Commission considers that the bank is not in a position, because it is not in a position to carry out its tasks in a bank position, is not in a position to carry out its resolution tasks fully, and is not in a position to fully liquidate its contingent liabilities in that resolution, because it is therefore in a position to liquidate resolution, therefore that, in the case of resolution resolution, in the case of resolution resolution, resolution, resolution, resolution resolution resolution and resolution and resolution resolution and resolution, in the case of resolution resolution and resolution resolution resolution, in the case of resolution, resolution resolution, resolution is not fully in its resolution in this resolution, and resolution in the case of resolution and resolution is therefore resolution in the case of resolution and resolution in the case of resolution and resolution in the case of resolution, resolution in the case of resolution and resolution in the resolution of resolution, resolution in the case of resolution and resolution in the case of resolution and resolution of resolution in the case of resolution, resolution in the case of resolution and resolution in the case of resolution, is not fully implemented in the resolution of its resolution obligations in the Commission in the resolution and resolution of the resolution of resolution obligations in the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the Commission.
On the date on which the Court's report on conditional liabilities resulting from the implementation of its tasks was published in 2016 in connection with the resolution decision adopted in June 2017 in Banco Popular Espa Wol S.A. by the end of October 2017 90 legal proceedings against the Committee were conducted and 46 complaints were brought before the Board of Appeal of the SRB.
The Commission and the Council were informed of 26 proceedings brought before the General Court in connection with the resolution decision referred to above.
Other special reports by the Court concerning one or more agencies 2.55.
In addition to the work reports specifically addressed to the agencies, the Court produced a number of special reports and analyses in 2017 on the implementation of EU policies on a number of agencies (see Figure 2.8).
(23) Article 92 (4) of the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation.
P 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/27 Illustration 2.8 Further special reports and analysis of the Court concerning the Agency Source: European Court of Auditors.
DE C 434/28 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 European Union Agency's replies to the European Agency's Network of Agencies confirm the Court's positive conclusions on the consistency of their annual accounts and the results underlying them.
The Network would like to express its concern at the fact that in Sysper, given that the Commission only presents to them the basic package of modules, the agencies will be forced, and will in the future, to continue to use separate tools for evaluation, teleworking, sliptime and staff reporting.
Therefore, the situation of IT in the management of human resources will be only partially more coherent, and will even be much less coherent than in the case of the Commission.
Agencies also want the possibility of introducing a common possibility of using the services to support recruitment procedures that are currently not covered by Sysper.
With regard to public procurement, there has been a strong development in the last two years towards the harmonisation of electronic tools.
This development began in 2015/2016, when, in cooperation with DG DIGIT, tools for electronic procurement were developed in cooperation with DG BUDG.
Since then, this series of electronic modules for all stages of the procurement cycle has become the standard for which the agencies apply.
In 2018, this trend continued to change, when the new modules were introduced electronically, the ABAC LCK module and were made available to the agencies.
Over time, agencies stand on the road to using their own, isolated tools, which are very fast, sometimes less fast, but no matter how fast this development takes place, this trend does not exist on its own.
In practice, it is difficult to achieve the proposed efficiency improvement by fulfilling the European Commission's accounting tasks.
Therefore, the necessary workloads not only depend on the balance of the budget, but also must be aware that, at the beginning of each year, the accounts must be completed within a narrow timeframe.
Experience has shown that the conclusion of more than one annual accounts package (i.e. more than one package (i.e. in the case of additional funding (through delegation agreements) requires nearly twice as many staff, although in the case of delegation agreements (the shares are smaller) are smaller (and are much lower) than in the case of delegation agreements.
However, in carrying out these activities, each agency should request the Commission to provide the accounting team, as the accounting tasks are still carried out.
As long as possible, any staff savings are not in line with full-time jobs.
In addition, its annual budget still needs to be paid.
For this reason, only a few agencies have decided to delegate this task to the Commission.
The Network would like to stress that to date no studies have been carried out or a risk assessment has been carried out that would justify the statement that the unfitness of the authorising officer or of the unfitness of the authorising officer may be if he is directly subject to the authorising officer and not to the authorising officer who has acquired the competence.
Some agencies have decided to adopt an accounting card, which includes, inter alia, reporting rules, where appropriate, to the Management Board.
C 434/29 Page 31 33 38 43 46 51 51 61 64 79 83 87 90 98 103 109 112 116 128 136 141 149 161 165 DE FINANCIAL AGENCIES OF HEADING 1A IN THE MFF COMPETITIVE GROWTH AND JOBS...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA)................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
European Institute for Gender Equality[[Igie]]................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
European Agency for the Management of Operational Systems for the Area of Freedom, Security and Law[ Management.eu-LISA]................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
DE C 434/30 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018, p. 3.29.
169 3.30.
184 3.31.
188 3.32.
The Euratom Supply Agency...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
191 3.33.
191 3.34.
195 3.35.
The Single Commission for Settlements (RSB)..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
205 FIGHTING FIGHTING FINANCIAL INQUIRIES...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
209 3.37.
209 3.38.
213 3.39.
217 3.40.
221 3.41.
225 3.42.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/31 3.1.
We have analysed our recommendations in accordance with International Audit Standards (ISA) and the professional requirements of IFAC and International Standards of Supreme Accounting Control (ISSAI) INTOSAI (International Standards on Auditing - ISAI).
Our obligations under these standards are described in the "Responsibility resources' section in our report in terms of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of our assets.
We are independent in compliance with the Code of Ethics of Professional Accounts in the International Ethics Standards Board (IESBA Code) and the relevant requirements for professional behaviour and in compliance with these requirements and the Code of IESBA (IESBA Code).
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and adequate to serve as the basis for our ruling.
Responsibilities of the management and the persons responsible for supervision and supervision 3.1.2.
Pursuant to Articles 310 to 335 TFEU and to the Agency's financial rules, the Management Board shall be responsible. On the basis of international accounting rules, annual accounts shall be drawn up and presented to the public sector and to the rules and rules of law.
This includes the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures that are necessary for the preparation and presentation of annual accounts that are free of material or unintentional misconceptions.
The Management Board of the Agency shall have the ultimate responsibility for the legal responsibility and regularity of the Agency and the underlying annual accounts.
When drawing up the annual accounts, the management shall be responsible for assessing the Agency's business development capacity, for business development issues, except where the management intends or intends to terminate or does not have a realistic alternative to this.
Responsibilities of Pr. F... Pr.r. of drawing up annual accounts and underlying financial statements 3.1.5.
Our aim is to ensure that the Agency's annual accounts are free from material false presentations or are correct and correct, and that the Agency's accounts are free of material errors, and that the Agency's accounts are correct and correct, and that they are transmitted to the European Parliament and the Council or to the Council or to the other discharge authorities, on the basis of our guidelines, on the reliability of the Agency's accounts, as well as the correctness and regularity of the accounts of the agencies on which we are based.
Incorrect presentations and understanding may be intended or unintentional and may be considered relevant if they can be considered, individually or in full, to be relevant, to affect the economic decisions made by users on the basis of that financial statement.
3.1.6.
As regards revenue, we will consider, where appropriate, the additional revenue received by the agencies from the Commission or the cooperating countries, and we will evaluate their procedures for the collection of revenue and other revenue.
3.1.7.
As regards expenditure, we are checking whether expenditure has been cleared, registered and accepted.
Prepayments shall be checked after confirmation of correct use by the responsible person and the Agency shall accept the evidence after payment of the advance payment, in the same year and even in the same year, and after that year.
3.1.8.
In assessing compliance with ISA and ISSAI, we use discretion and maintain a critical attitude.
H H H H H h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h
The risk of not documenting significant misconstruing or non-documenting of acts resulting from non-regulated acts is higher than that resulting from erring acts, since non-regulated acts may include cooperation, error, non-regulation or non-regulation of internal controls or non-regulation of internal controls;
C 434 does not matter whether the internal control system is relevant for the planning of actions which are appropriate in individual cases but which are not intended to give a ruling on the effectiveness of the internal control system; we assess the appropriateness of the accounting methods used in the management and the availability of the accounting values which have been provided by the management and therefore the suitability of the accounting rules used by the management and on the basis of the evidence obtained to determine whether there are substantial doubts as to the events or circumstances relevant to the effectiveness of the agency in order to further develop its activities.
If we come to the conclusion that there is serious uncertainty, we will be obliged to pay attention to the information contained in the financial statements in the financial statements or, if that information is not adequate, to modernise our opinion, in our opinion on the conclusions contained in the financial statements.
We have conclusions based on evidence to support the date on which we received the memo to support the request for outsourcing.
We are responsible for the instructions, monitoring and monitoring of the work that are being done.
EN 3.1.9.
We are discussing with the Management Board, among others, the planned scope, timetable and arrangements of significant importance, including any relevant details in the internal control system, which we are aware of in the course of our work.
3.1.10.
The facts we have discussed with the agencies are the most important issues we have with regard to the setting of annual accounts in the current period and the most important governance issues in this regard.
In our memo on the author of the final report, we describe these facts, unless the legislation or other legislation closes the public statement of facts or, in rare cases, we find that these facts should not be disclosed in our memo on the author of the final report, because, as it appears, the negative effects of such communication should not be taken into account in the public interest.
(24) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012.
AGENCY OF ANNUAL ENERGY WORKING COOPERATION 3.2.1.
The agency fédie ădie agenturé égé ("the Agency') ("the Agency') with its seat in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (25).
Under the REMIT Regulation (26), the Agency and the national regulatory authorities have been entrusted with additional tasks related to the monitoring of the European energy market in the wholesale market.
The table presents the main figures for the Agency (27).
Table Key figures for the Agency for 2017 Budget (million euro) 13 Total staff on 31 December (1) 91 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts.
The Court's powers conferred on the European Parliament and the Council on the Court of Justice are without prejudice to the relevant President in 2016 16103 JUSTICE 3.2.3. The Court's powers of Justice of the European Union are conferred on the European Parliament and the Council on the Court of Justice of the European Union and on the President of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union on the European Union of the European Communities and on the Court of Justice of the European Union and on the Council of the European Communities of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union.
We checked: (a) the Agency's annual accounts, including annual accounts:[28] and budget implementation reports: (29) f annual accounts, ending on 31 December 2017; and (b) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts:[28], and the budget implementation reports: (ex) the financial year: 31 December 2017, and (b) the Agency's legal and annual accounts, based on the annual accounts: (ex) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) (Article 287 of the Treaty) on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
(26) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(27) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.acer.europa.eu.
(28) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, financial statements, a table of changes in net financial situation and a summary of the accounting bases and other changes.
(29) The reports ▪ of budget implementation include budget reviews, which include revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as extortion.
DE C 434/34 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Accuracy of the accounts Judgment on the reliability of the accounts 3.2.4.
Payments The decision on the correctness and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.2.6.
COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING ACCOUNTING ACCOUNTING TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT 3.2.8. As part of the work carried out at that time on the work of the EU agencies, the Court carried out an accounting analysis in this context, including on the timely (new) approval of invoicing systems.
In October 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1329 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2017 to 25 January 2020.
Despite this huge change, the invoicing system was recently approved in 2011.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.2.9.
In 2011, the Agency received an additional task related to the monitoring of the energy market in the wholesale market (REMIT).
The first REMIT elements were put into effect for the first time in 2017.
However, the original location in Maribor, Slovenia, was moved to Ljubljana in April 2017 to the Agency's main data centre.
Therefore, the backup data is now stored in the same place as the original data.
Therefore, in the event of natural disasters, there is a significant risk of a continuation of economic activity, as the data may be irreversibly lost. COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY. 3.2.10. On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom (UK) informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, the Agency has not carried out a complete analysis of the impact of Brexit on its organisation, its depreciation and its accounts.
3.2.11.
The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) and its publication and its publication to citizens, how it will publish notices of employment in various European institutions and agencies.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/35 3.2.12.
In the framework of the framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should lay down common rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (30) (31), as common requirements apply to EU institutions for this purpose, the Commission is currently developing all IT data covering all phases of the public procurement process and is therefore launching tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for the procurement notice in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, none of these tools was launched by the Agency.
INTERNAL SERVICE REPORT 3.2.13.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the management of human resources at the Agency[32]. The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a risk that there is a need for improvement.
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of the previous years.
(30) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government)
(31) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) (electronic administration)
(32) The Court has not examined the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/36 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Continuation of the Court's observations of previous years The purpose of the agreement between the Agency and the Government of Slovenia is to establish a European school in Slovenia, but this is still not more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
In its May 2016 progress report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the urgent need to clarify the roles and achievements and to analyse the workload of the contracting entity in order to increase the efficiency of processes and processes.
In addition, the IAS concluded that the planning and monitoring of public procurement should be significantly improved and the Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
The Agency had EUR 4.9 million and 86% of the appropriations entered in Title III (operational expenditure) respectively for the following financial year (EUR 1,4 million and 59% respectively in 2015).
As in previous years, these funds were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation on the integration and transparency of the energy market and amounted to EUR 4.7 million in 2016 (in 2015: EUR 1.1 million).
For Title II (administrative expenditure), the Agency has exceeded the amount of EUR 1 million or 38% of appropriations allocated for the following financial year (EUR 0,8 million or 35% respectively) in 2015.
The higher rate of return is directly linked to the completion or signature of procurement and procurement procedures at the end of the year, which in turn leads to the transfer of supplies and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of 299 Vertršgen were signed in November and December (EUR 5 976 122,47 and 40% of the total Vertr Wertr value and in 2016).
The Agency may decide to adopt separate budgetary measures to better reflect the multifaceted nature of the contracts and the unavoidable differences between contracts, supplies and payments.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/37 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.2.8.
The Agency agrees with the results and clarifies that the Agency shall record all financial transactions in the financial system provided by the European Commission, which shall be updated, maintained and approved by the Commission.
With outsourcing of outsourcing services to the Commission since October 2017, the Agency will accept the approval of the invoicing system made available by the Commission in 2018.
From the time of migration at the beginning of April 2016 to the ACER internal data centre and integration with one place in June 2017 in order to optimise and optimise the efficiency and make it more and more.
However, it should be noted that the current situation in which continuity cannot be ensured has been imposed on the Agency as a result of a severe reduction in the budget over the last two years.
The Agency has repeatedly warned the Commission and the budgets on the serious impact of the budgetary changes but has not achieved any results on the additional appropriations.
The Agency will continue to seek to restore the location in the framework of the disaster management in ARIS by the end of 2018.
Restoring the location of F in two areas would require the Agency to receive additional funding.
Given that the risks associated with BREXIT were considered low and limited, in 2017, the management carried out only an informal analysis of Brexit.
At the beginning of 2018, the Agency published a comprehensive analysis of the impact of Brexit on the organisation, function and economy, taking action and activities.
In 2014, the Management Board of the Agency adopted Decision AB No 15/2014 on the Agency's language system.
Nevertheless, the Agency still needs to translate the notices published on the EPSO website into all official EU languages.
Due to the very limited financial resources expressed several times in favour of the budget, the Agency cannot, on the EPSO website, place translation costs on each day of each call notice in all official EU languages.
In 2017, four of the nine employment notices were published on the EPSO website, including two public calls, and have therefore been translated into all official EU languages.
H a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a t a a t a a t a t a t a a a t a a t t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a a t a t a t a t a a t t a t a t a t a t i a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t i a t a t i a t a t i a t i a t a t a t a t a t a t i a t a t a t a t a t i a t a t a t a t a t t a t a t a t a t a t a t i a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t i a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t i t a t a t t a t a t a t a t a t a t i a t a t a t a t i t a t i t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t i i a t i a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t t a t a t a t a t i t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t i a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t t t a t i a t a t t a t a t a t t a t a t t t a t i a t a t t i t a t i t a t i a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t t a t a t a t a t i a t a t a t i t a t t a t a t a t a t t a t a t a t a t a t t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t t a t a t a t a t a
This approach corresponds to the pragmatic importance between contact with potential candidates and the effective use of limited resources.
3.2.12.
In 2018, the Agency will launch electronic public procurement, which will be extended in 2019 to the use of electronic invoicing and electronic submission of tenders.
3.2.13.
Following the Commission's Internal Audit Report (IAS) on Human Resources Management, the Agency has agreed with IAS an action plan and is currently implementing the proposed improvements.
DE C 434/38 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.
B Belehrungro of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (hereinafter ădas B in Riga) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (33).
The main figures for Bjarjarji (34) are shown in the table.
Table Main figures for B Referatro 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 4 Total staff 31 December (2) 27 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
2. staff shall consist of officials, temporary staff, contract staff and seconded national experts, and the first subparagraph of the first subparagraph of Article 3 and the second subparagraph of Article 4 and the second subparagraph of Article 4 and the second subparagraph of Article 4 and the European Parliament and the Council, which shall be required, in particular the European Parliament and the Council, which have been forwarded by the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council, the first subparagraph of Article 4 and the second subparagraph of Article 4 and the European Parliament and the Council, in particular the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council, and in particular the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council, and the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council, in particular Article 3 (4) and Article 3 (3) and the first subparagraph of Article 3 (3) and Article 4 (3) and (3) and (3) and (3) of the Council, and Article 4 (3) and Article 4 (3) first subparagraph, and by the European Parliament and the Council, in accordance with Article 3 (3) and (3) and (3) of the second subparagraph of Article 4 (3) and (3) of Article 4 (3) and (3) of Article 4 (3) and (3) of the Council, and Article 4 (3) of Article 3 (3) and (3) and (3) of Article 3 (3) of the second subparagraph of Article 3 and (3) and (3) of the second subparagraph, of Article 3 and the Council, and (3) of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 and (3) and (3) of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 4 of Article 3 of Article 4 of the European Parliament, and (3) of Article 3 and (3) of Article 3 and (3) of Article 3 of Article 3 and 3 of the European Parliament and (3) of Article 3 of Article 3 of and (3) of the European Parliament and (3) of and (3) of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of the European Parliament and (3) and (3) and (3) of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Council, of Article 3 of Article 4 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 (3) of Article 3 and (3) of Article 3 of and (3) of Article 3 of the European Parliament and (3) of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3 of the European Parliament and 3 of Article 3 of the Council, and 3
(a) the annual accounts B of the incomplete budget, including the annual accounts ((35) and the financial statements ( budget implementation reports) (36) (f), the annual accounts ending on 31 December 2017, (b) the reasonableness and order on which the financial statements are based and, where appropriate, the financial statements (Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) (TFEU).
On the basis of our assessment, the B's annual accounts, which shall end on 31 December 2017, shall, as appropriate, present the financial situation of B.ros as at 31 December 2017, the results as at 31 December 2017, the results as at 31 December 2017, the cash flow and the net change as at 31 December 2017, to the public sector, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's official, which shall be based on recognised international accounting bases.
OJ L 337, 18.12.2009, p. 1.
(34) For more information on the tasks and tasks of WI and B, see www.berec.europa.eu at www.berec.europa.eu.
(35) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial accounts, financial statements, net changes table and a summary of the accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(36) The budget implementation reports include summary reviews of revenue and expenditure and reviews of revenue and expenditure.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.3.6.
Note 3.3.7.
The Commission therefore concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, and that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,
The amount of payments to this mandate under the M mandate in 2017 amounted to EUR 106 432,50 (or 2,5% of the 2017 budget).
3.3.8.
COMMENTS ON THE OVERVIEW OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.3.9.
Within the framework of such activities carried out by EU agencies, the Court carried out an accounting analysis, including the issue of the timely (new) approval of accounting and accounting systems.
In 2016, the Commission's accounting function was unlimited.
In 2017, he launched a new paper-free system.
Although these events led to significant changes in the B clearing system and procedures in B in 2013, the system was not re-approved.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET 3.3.10.
In December 2017, R.R. signed legal commitments and commitments worth EUR 20 000 for 2018 and signed the planned training at the end of March 2018.
The financing from the 2017 and 2018 budget from the 2018 and 2017 budget is contrary to the principle of the honesty budget.
In August 2015, B to draw up a call for tenders in Cascade in August 2015 for a framework agreement on a wide range of services of EUR 3 million was allocated for the organisation and planning of events such as meetings, workshops, conferences, etc.
In addition, the competitive procedure covered only the administrative authorities of the tenderer but did not cover the potential costs of the organisation.
Consequently, the award procedure did not lead to fair price competition, which was certainly not the most economically advantageous offer.
3.3.12.
In the framework of the framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish uniform rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in the procurement procedures (37) (38) In view of the fact that, for this purpose and in the EU institutions, the electronic storage and electronic data exchange obligation is in force, the Commission is developing a comprehensive IT version covering all stages of the procurement procedure, has launched electronic invoicing tools (2010) and electronic publication of contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
(37) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 (electronic administration)
(38) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) electronic administration.
DE C 434/40 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.13.
On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom (UK) informed the European Council of its decision to leave the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, B Vietnam has not carried out a comprehensive analysis of the possible impact of Brexit on its organisation, application and accounts.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/41 ANNEXI Follow-up action in relation to the Court's observations in previous years The appropriations in the 2014 budget by the national regulatory authorities of the EFTA States which have observer status in BEREC have not been paid due to a lack of agreement with those countries.
In 2016, she proposed to launch a procurement procedure to close a framework contract for children of her staff through two international schools set up in Riga within the framework of the M.
The framework agreement of EUR 400 000 signed in July 2016 is therefore based on a contradictory approach which creates legal uncertainty in relation to R &amp; D and schools.
In addition, the framework agreement in this particular case was ineffective.
As a result of the reclassification of one staff member, a level 2 was transferred directly to the level of level 1 of the upper grade, contrary to the EU Staff Regulations.
In March 2016, B.V.A. signed an agreement worth EUR 60 000 for the provision of specialist support and consulting services in the field of personnel.
In 2016, the average time of employment of the employees of B Wrocław was 2.58 years. employees' fluctuations amounted to 25%.
In view of possible reasons, the correction coefficient applicable to the remuneration costs of the host country (73%).
Periodic external performance assessments are not required by the B Ratingros Block Exemption Regulation.
B read that in 2007 in 2007 I was appointed in 2007 and then I was appointed Director-General and then Director-General in 2007 as Director-General and Director-General as Director-General in 2007 as Director-General.
Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 European Free Trade Association 2016 European Free Trade Association (Complete/Completed/Completed/Infinite/Infinite) (not controlled by B.U.) n.a. (not controlled by B.U.B.U.) (not controlled by B.U.) (1) EN
DE C 434/42 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Replies to Ms Blena 3.3.7. Given the large fluctuations of staff in which the management has seen a risk factor in the implementation of its work programme, the Management Committee of BEREC has called for a reserve list to be drawn up for at least 75 % 3.3 of the Agency's employment profiles.
In order to maintain the obligation to publish calls for expressions of interest (40) on the EPSO website (41), the documents had to be translated into all the official languages of the EU.
The Agency may, by means of the previous reserve lists drawn up, determine the objective under which the Management Committee should maintain the level of vacant posts below 15% and send offers of employment within one month of the establishment of the need for employment.
To avoid high translation costs in the future, B to develop standard call templates as well as short sections tailored to translation needs, B, to which templates should be used in the future, Byro BEREC aims to develop standard call templates and short translation sections.
3.3.9.
In 2016, B W.A. In 2016-2016 BEREC forwarded the financial statements to the European Commission.
Therefore, the accounting officer of the European Commission ( DG Budget) provides the services required under Article 50 of the framework Financial Regulation applicable to the agencies, including the approval of local systems.
On 14 June 2018, the European Commission received an official endorsement containing the reference number Ares (2018) 3149885 on 14 June 2018.
The accounting services of the European Commission will close the procedure and report on the results in the fourth quarter of 2018.
3.3.10.
In November 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) 2017/1425.
Therefore, it was necessary to sign a contract with the organiser to instruct that both the instructors and the instructors and the organizers and the place, have the organizers scheduled for the training.
The agreement was signed in December 2017 and an undertaking in this respect was made after the financial arrangements had been made before the agreement was signed.
Experience shows that in the first quarter of the year, in the first quarter of the year, there is no reason to do so in the first quarter of the year, that it cannot be financed this year, so that it will not be able to collect additional data this year, it will not be able to collect additional information, and will therefore be able to continue training.
3.3.11.
The Framework Agreement was decided in 2015.
It should be noted that other EU institutions have closed several such agreements and continue to close (e.g. for b.ros travel services or banking services).
In view of the specificities of BEREC, a large proportion of the expenditure on events organised by BEREC, which is organised by BEREC, relates to the loss of competence, mainly by public administrations within the EU Member States (e.g. national regulatory authorities, national regulatory authorities, national regulatory authorities, national national authorities, etc.).
It should therefore be concluded that the economic operator has no impact on this type of expenditure.
Following comments and a valuable exchange of views with the Court, the new opening of the procurement procedure, the European Banking Authority will draw attention to other types of framework agreements which were not foreseen under the legal framework applicable after 2015.
B made observations by the Court and informed the Court that it intends to introduce these modules by the end of 2018, taking into account the possibility for the Agency to obtain appropriate budgetary resources.
3.3.13.
The impact on the Agency's level of employment could not be clarified until the relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom had ended.
Given that BEREC's financial allocations and human resources have not been amended to cover additional expenditure and additional labour costs related to Croatia's accession to the EU and, given the small budget of BEREC, Brexit is not expected to change.
(39) See page 9 of MC (16) 136, Annual and Multinational Programming of the BEREC Office Activities 2017-2019, 9.12.2016, p. 95, https://berec.europa.eu/eng/document_register/subject_matter/berec_office/office_annal_work_programmes/6554,annal-and-multinational-programming-of-the-berec-office-activities-2017-2019 (40).
(41) Article 11 of Decision MC/2015/3: Decision of the Management Committee of BEREC (B./2015/3) laying down general implementing rules of the European Union concerning the procedure for the recruitment and recruitment of temporary staff pursuant to Article 2 (f) of the Conditions of Employment pursuant to Articles 2 (f) and 2 (f) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/43 3.4.
European CEDEFOP 3.4.1 (CEDEFOP)
The European Centre for Vocational Training (hereinafter referred to as the Centre for Vocational Training (hereinafter referred to as the Centre) located in Thessaloniki (hereinafter referred to as the Centre for Vocational Training) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (42).
The main task of the Centre shall be to promote and develop vocational education and training at Union level.
3.4.2.
The table contains the main figures for the centre (43).
Table Main figures for Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 18 Total staff at 31 December (2) 117 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall consist of officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Centre.The European Parliament and the Council... NAME OF NON-CONFORMED PRESENTATION FOR 2016 18.2. AUTHORISATION 3.4.3.
We discussed: (a) the Centre's annual accounts including the annual accounts (44) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (45) (a) the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the Centre's annual accounts and the accounts for implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017; and (b) the Centre's annual accounts and the accounts for the financial year 2017; (e) the Centre's accounts for the financial year 2017; (c) the financial year 31 December 2017 for the financial year 2017 (the accounts for implementation of the budget) for the financial year 2017; (e) the legal report (the accounts for implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) for the financial year (TFEU) for the financial year 2017 (Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) for the financial year (Article 287) for the financial year.
In accordance with our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Centre's accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for the financial year, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts for the financial year, the financial year 31 December 2017 and the financial statements for the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial statements for the year of 31 December 2017 and the financial statements for the financial year of 31 December 2017, and the financial year of 31 December 2017.
OJ L 39, 13.2.1975, p. 1.
(43) For more information on the possibilities and possibilities of the Centre, please visit www.cedefop.europa.eu.
(44) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial statements, financial results, the financial flows account, the net change table, as well as a summary of the financial statements and other castrated financial statements.
(45) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews which shall include forecasts of revenue and expenditure as well as exfoliations.
DE C 434/44 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts of the Commission of revenue and expenditure should be considered as revenue and expenditure underlying the annual accounts of 3.4.5. According to our assessment, the revenue and revenue underlying the accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.4.6.
3.4.7.
The following observations do not call into question the opinion of the Court. COMMENTS ON JUSTICE AND JUSTICE IN W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................."..."""" "" "" "" """ "" "" "" "" "" "" "" "" """" "" "" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
The management of two recruitment procedures in management positions was characterised by weaknesses, and procedures are considered to be unregulated.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY HOLDER AND THE LETTER 3.4.9. The Centre publishes employment notices on its website and on social media, but in most cases not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
Agencies should lay down uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (46) (47) in view of the fact that these rules also apply to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing all information covering all stages of the procurement procedure (46) and implementing tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement notices (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the centre had not closed any of these tools.
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.4.11.
In November 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented the evaluation report of the Centre's online services (48).
(46) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 (electronic management)
(47) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government.)
(48) The Court has not examined this work.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/45 ANSWERS OF THE CENTRE ON JUSTICE AND REGULATION OF REGULATION (EC) No 3.4.8.
We note the Court's observations on the irregularities in both recruitment procedures.
Cedefop is currently preparing a detailed assessment of both procedures and is seeking corrective action in these two and in general in the case of recruitment procedures in order to address the shortcomings identified by the Court.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF THE BUDGET AND THE ON THE CERTIFICATE 3.4.9.
Cedefop uses EPSO in some cases.
Cedefop publishes its employment notices on its own website and on the Internet platform of an Internet agency, which is available to all EU citizens and uses various candelas to advertise employment offers, including the employment announcement by ReferenceNet, SkillsNet, the Management Board, and to others such as business networks, etc. Cedefop publishes its employment offers to the Director and Deputy Director at EPSO and uses its media channels on social media.
Cedefop considers that the additional costs associated with the translation of notices into all EU official languages into the EPSO portal are not beneficial to the expected benefits.
Cedefop took the first steps to take part in the procurement procedure in 2018 (modules of the ăe-Prior platform in order to comply with the deadline laid down in Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement for all contracting authorities (http://ec.europa.eu/growth/single-market/public-procurement/e-procurement_en).europa.eu/growth/single-market/public-procurement/e-procurement_en).
Cedefop cooperates with the Directorate-General for Foreign Policy of the European Commission for Foreign Policy (DIGIT), which is responsible for the involvement of public contractors.
In October 2018, the first general invitation to tender shall be opened, using modules in the framework of the electronic invitation to tender and the electronic submission of tenders.
All general procedures shall be performed using electronic tools.
The start date of e-invoicing will depend on whether Cedefop's management will conduct on an accrual basis (using e-invoicing as a module) or will continue to use the internal Fibus platform (assuming that the e-invoicing platform will have to be established).
DE C 434/46 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.
INTRODUCTION 3.5.1.
The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency "ăEASA d " (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency')") established in K established in K (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council[49], which was repealed by Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (50).
The main figures for the Agency (51) are presented in the table.
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 192 Total staff at 31 December (1) 771 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (1252) and the accounts on the implementation of the budget (53), of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the rule of law and regularity underlying the annual accounts; and (f) (b) the annual accounts on the implementation of the budget (53) (f) the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2017; (g) the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2017... and (b) the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year for which the accounts were drawn up and drawn up for... (TFEU) §... §... § (g) on the functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In our opinion, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, for the year ending 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017, for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year for the year for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year for the year for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the 31 December 2017 for the 31 December 2017 for the 31 December 2017 for the 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017 for the year 31 December 2017
OJ L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1.
OJ L 79, Sport, p. 1.
(51) For more information on the Agency's tasks and tasks, see the Agency's website www.easa.europa.eu at www.easa.europa.eu.
(52) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial results, cash flow accounts, the table of net changes, and a summary of the reasonable accounting bases, as well as other changes in the balance sheet.
(53) The accounts shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, including expenditure reviews.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/47 The rule of law and regularity of annual accounts,, C 30.11.2018, C 434/47,,,, and, and,, and, and, and, C i, C i, C i, C and C, i, C and C, and, C and C,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, C, and, and,, and,,,, C and, C, C,,,,, and, C, and, C, C, and, C, C, and, C, C, and, C, and, C, and, and,
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.5.6.
3.5.7.
COMMENTS ON THE CARRYING OUT OF THE Accounts 3.5.8.
The Court considers that it is necessary for the Court to be directly suspected of the Director (administrative matters) and the Management Board (functional matters) of the Agency of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union.
Framework agreements shall be concluded with undertakings with a view to determining the conditions applicable to certain (single) contracts during the duration of the contract.
The Agency used a framework agreement with three contractors in a cascade system to provide IT services of up to EUR 22 million.
Under this procedure, economic operators shall be placed in a hierarchy (cascade) under a competitive procedure which must be followed for all individual applicants.
However, the terms of the Framework Agreement were not sufficiently detailed to achieve fair competition and to justify the establishment of a hierarchy of contractors for all potential individual candidates.
In the light of the implementing provisions of the Financial Regulation (Financial Regulation) (point 54) (point 54) (Regulation) (point 54) (point 54)) (point 54) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (iv) (iv) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi)
3.5.10.
In accordance with the Agency's financial rules (55), the Management Board must approve the contracts under the Agency's annual work programme or through an ad hoc financing decision.
A framework agreement on computer science of EUR 15 million was invited to tender and signed, even though the financing decision covered only EUR 5 million.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including EASA) on the purchase of IT equipment and software and on maintenance and support services (IT services).
The contractor of the framework agreement shall be the intermediary between the Agency and the undertakings which may provide IT services.
Most of these IT services and related prizes are defined in the framework agreement concluded under the competitive procurement procedure, but under that agreement, it was recommended that the purchase of IT services should not be specifically mentioned.
In the case of payments in advance of about EUR 300 000, the Agency purchased IT services from the contractor without a competitive procedure.
In 2017, payments to the contractor of the H Whe Framework Agreement amounted to a total of EUR 2 million.
3.5.12.
(54) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No specify the requirements of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No plus Delegated Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the application of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 1248/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the application of Regulation (EU) No 1248/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council with regard to Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council
(55) EASA financial provisions, Article 68 (2) and (3).
DE C 434/48 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.13.
In the framework of the framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should lay down uniform rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in the award of public contracts (56). In this context, as these rules apply to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing the whole IT covering all stages of the award of public contracts and in this context launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
In accordance with the information provided by the Commission by the end of 2017, the Agency has introduced an electronic invitation to tender and an electronic submission of tenders subject to certain electronic invoicing procedures.
The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt, by means of implementing acts, implementing and implementing the implementing acts referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of the first subparagraph of this paragraph and in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in point (a) of paragraph 3 of this Article, in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts, in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 1 of this Article and in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in point (a) of this Article, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 1 of this Article, implementing acts in accordance with Article 1 of this Regulation.
In 2017, the Internal Audit Service submitted to the Commission an evaluation report evaluating the preparation by EASA of the European Aviation Safety Plan (58).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where improvements are likely to be needed.
(56) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79, electronic administration (ăe-Government.)
(57) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the eGovernment (ăe-Government.)
(58) The Court did not reach that objective.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/49 PL ANNEX Further monitoring of the Court's observations of previous years Although in 2016 the deficit level of EUR 7.6 million, financed by industry, the budgetary results from year to year vary, from year to year ((1), the Agency aggregated EUR 52 million from year to year.
The Agency's implementing regulation provides that the amounts due by industry should be proportionate to the costs incurred by the Agency in order to determine the common conditions for granting authorisations.
Between 2014 and 2016, the Agency used EUR 12.4 million to build a new building EUR 9.4 million (2016: EUR 4.4 million) to cover the costs of renovation (and removals).
The Commission has contributed EUR 3 million from the EU budget for this purpose.
Year 2016 Year 2016 Date of correction (completed/in progress/in progress/d)
DE C 434/50 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.5.8.
The Agency discussed this issue within the Agency's network forum in order to look at the problems and to develop a common position.
The Agency shall implement the agreed common approach and in any event shall clearly exclude the accounting role from the operational functions and shall include the Management Board in the renewal and evaluation cycle.
3.5.9.
In order to prepare this procedure, the Agency carried out a market analysis and concluded that the main IT service providers supported all the necessary services under this procedure.
The Agency therefore concluded that a number of framework agreements, together with a renewed call for competition, led to a significant administrative burden which, compared to what was likely to result, was considered to be unbroken.
As in the case of high value tenders and in the light of the Court's observations, the Agency will be better able to re-open the competitions in order to gain competition.
The purpose of this Framework Agreement is to support the concept of the concept and the initial phase of the new project (Data4Safety), whose funding and structure developed over the months together with a number of parties.
The value of the contract was EUR 15 million, but ultimately the financial commitment was at least EUR 4 million.
Therefore, the possibility of making payments beyond this amount is not sufficient.
3.5.11.
The Agency considers that this approach is in line with the principle of cost-effectiveness of the budget in the application of the existing interinstitutional agreement.
In the present case, the remuneration of EUR 24 816,60 was considered appropriate compared to the volume of the purchase and was therefore appropriate.
The Framework Agreement provides for this objective and the Agency has made use of it legally.
In 2015, the Agency's Administrative Board (Decision No 08-2015) decided that EASA's working language is the English language for recruitment and recruitment.
That decision was communicated to the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which did not accept that decision as an exception to its provisions on the publication of offers of employment in all languages and which did not meet the needs of the Agency.
The agency network has recently created an online platform to allow agencies to publish their work notices on a wider scale.
EASA regularly publishes external job notices on this new platform.
3.5.13.
The Court concluded that an electronic instrument for the submission of applications for contracts was launched in the form of an electronic instrument last year.
F not e-invoicing was completed in 2017 in the commercial specifications, and as part of the Agency's resources and priorities, sought in the framework of e-invoicing.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/51 3.6.
EUROPEAN BANK SURVEILLANCE (EBA) INTRODUCTION 3.6.1.
The European Banking Authority (hereinafter referred to as the European Banking Authority), including the European Banking Authority (hereinafter referred to as the European Banking Authority), established in London, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (59).
3.6.2.
The table shows the main figures for Beh to be realised (60).
Table Key figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 38 staff at 31 December (1) 190 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by staff.
(a) the annual accounts of the company consisting of the annual accounts[61] and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (62) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the regularity and regularity of the accounts underlying that accounts... (a) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of F of our company as at 31 December 2017 show, as at 31 December 2017, the company's financial position, the company's annual accounts and cash flows and net changes as at 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the Commission on the basis of international accounting rules.
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12.
2/06 For more information on Beh's achievements and achievements, see www.eba.europa.eu at www.eba.europa.eu.
(61) The annual accounts shall include the financial statements, the financial statements, the accounts, the financial statements, the table of net changes, the financial statements, and the financial statements on the routine accounting bases, as well as on other depreciation accounts.
(62) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure from the budget and of exfoliation.
EN C 434/52 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.6.5. The assessment shows that the revenue underlying the annual accounts for 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts 3.6.6.
Underline point 3.6.7. Without prejudice to the technical assistance judgment, the Court notes that the United Kingdom notified the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to leave the European Union.
An agreement is currently being negotiated on the details of the resignation.
Beh 359rde, based in London, has prepared its annual accounts and accounts on the basis of the information available on the date of signature (3 May 2018).
3.6.8.
On 20 November 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1278 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 November 2017 to 20 November 2017.
The move is planned at the beginning of 2019 and Behna documented in its annual accounts the costs associated with the transfer to H from EUR 6,7 million and EUR 11.2 million of the contractual payments to be made to B from London in the future.
3.6.9.
3.6.10.
In the case of four of the four open procedures in question, only one of the tenderers obtained eligibility criteria and all other tenderers were excluded.
It suggests that beh to between between between to the Qualit to ensuit to between.
In such procedures, it is not possible to identify the most cost-effective possibilities in which quality and price should be balanced.
3.6.12.
"Beh9]rde" publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This will allow transparency and social media coverage, and will allow communities to familiarise themselves with employment notices in various European institutions and agencies.
3.6.13.
In accordance with the Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (63) (64).
REPORT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT REPORT 3.6.14
The Commission's Internal Audit Service submitted in 2017 a report on supervisory convergence of colleges and training activities (65).
(63) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government.)
(64) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) (electronic administration)
(65) The Court has not revised this work.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/53 3.6.15.
In 2017, three European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) were externally evaluated on behalf of the Commission (66) (67).
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of the previous years.
(66) EBA, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority.
(61) The Court has not assessed this case.
C 434/54 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Continuation of the Court's observations of previous years For the previous years, workers whose children attend primary school or secondary school have reported the contribution from the educational allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations.
In 2012, the total cost of education was around 76 000 euro.
Year 2012 Correction date (completed/completed/completed/n.d.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/55 ANS. BEH RDE 3.6.11.
In carrying out procurement procedures, EBA shall endeavour to use tools that are used to maximise competition.
For four of the four f of the four procedures with f f with the quality weight and the price was 60-40 and for the other 50/50. We believe that the low proportion of the financial evaluation carried out by the Court concerns the factors that EBA does not have an impact on, including the low interest in the tender, because of the exchange rate risk, the size of the contract, the high costs for the invitation to tender and the low margins, and the low quality of the technical offers.
EBA publishes multiple media notices: on the EBA website, on Twitter and LinkedIn, on the EU website, in the EU, on the EuroBrussels and EurActiv website, in the ESC-HRC, in the Financial Times and on the EU website (for more profiled agencies).
In February 2018, EBA published ten calls for employment offers on the EPSO website in all official EU languages.
EBA considers that through the use of the above mentioned law firms, in order to ensure the full transparency of the publication of employment notices and to reach EU target audiences.
EBA will launch an electronic tender submission system in 2019 (e-substitution) and will conduct training in the first half of the year and will test system updates.
DE C 434/56 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.
CHEMICAL CHEMIC AGENCY AGENCY (ECHA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1
The European Chemicals Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Helsinki was established by Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (69).
Their main task is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment and to ensure the free movement of substances in the internal market, while increasing competitiveness and innovation.
The Agency also encourages the development of alternative methods for the assessment of the risks of substances.
3.7.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table are 69.
Table Key figures for the Agency for 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 112 at 31 December (2) 563 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations. (2) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
INVITED INVITED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT ON THE COURT'S APPEAL
We have analysed (a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts[70] and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (71) (f) (71) the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the financial year for which the annual accounts were drawn up and the accounts and the order on which these accounts are based and, as the case may be, Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 shall present the Agency's accounts at 31 December 2017, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017.
OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1.
(69) For more information on the Agency's competences and competences, visit the Agency's website: www.echa.europa.eu verf on the Agency's website: www.echa.europa.eu.
(70) The financial statements include a review, a review of financial results, a financial flow account, a table of net changes, as well as a summary of accounting guarantees and other changes.
(71) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include reviews of the Community's revenue and expenditure and reviews of Community expenditure.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434 penetrate the facts 3.7.5.
Without questioning the Court's judgment in Case C-3.7.4, the Court would like to stress that the Agency is partly financed by its own resources and that it is financed by any undertaking that proposes the registration of chemicals in accordance with REACH's regulation72.
Depending on the size of the company (small enterprises, small, medium and large enterprises) and on the size of the registered chemicals (different quantitative thresholds).
3.7.6.
In accordance with the Enforcement Regulation[73], the calculation and the activity reports shall be made by the Agency on the basis of the information provided by the undertakings at the time of the application.
Since the first registration in 2009, approximately 30% of the companies have claimed to be micro, small or medium-sized enterprises.
The Agency shall make significant efforts to introduce an ex-post system to obtain information from these applicants on the structure of the undertaking.
In this way, the Agency was able to conclude that, on the basis of the investigations to date, around 55% of the above-mentioned companies, which it was saying were micro, small or medium-sized enterprises (16% of all enterprises), were wrong to indicate their size, leading to a reduction in the number of companies.
In order to address this problem, the Agency has calculated, over the years, ex post verification to cover the cost of corrections of EUR 16.4 million, of EUR 16.4 million.
However, the results of the audit are significant in the state at the end of the year, and the remaining amount of the necessary corrections was not known at the end of 2017 (74).
This statement indicates that the system is based to too much of itself on applicants for international protection.
REACH provides that the analysis of the quantities declared by companies is the responsibility of the Member States responsible for enforcement.
Therefore, the Agency does not participate in the examination of this second element of this calculation.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.7.8.
It follows from our assessment that the payments underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are correct and correct in all material respects.
3.7.9
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.7.10
The results of the ex post audit of the Agency have shown that in the case of more companies registered and registered by the companies for which the chemical data are available are micro, small or medium-sized enterprises whose data are incorrect (see paragraph which highlights the facts in paragraph 3.7.5.).
This can be partly explained by the complex Commission rules on the determination of the size of the company (75), and partly by the financial incentive of the company to be given too small a size, given that the registration authorities of the company are much higher.
Since initial registration units are collected on the basis of the activities indicated, false information may have a significant negative impact on the Agency's revenue, unless it is detected.
Although the Agency reviews the declared parameters for smaller companies as part of an ex post review, the ex post studies are to a large extent carried out on the R-scale as compared to 2012 and in 2012-2012 (with registered quantities of chemicals).
(42) Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006.
Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 is amended as follows:
374 At the end of 2017, the procedures for ex post registration (post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post registration registration registration procedures (post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post
(75) Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36).
DE C 434/58 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.11.
Where errors are found, the Agency shall levy an administrative fee on the difference between the remuneration initially paid and the final remuneration for the duties and on the administrative remuneration.
On 31 December 2017, the amount to be recovered was EUR 4.7 million, of which EUR 3.2 million related to administrative fees.
However, the Agency seems to have difficulty collecting administrative fees.
The Agency's financial statements for 2017 also include irrecoverable debts of EUR 2.8 million (i.e. EUR 600 000 more than at the end of 2016).
3.7.12.
In the EU, EU Member States have the potential to have the potential to have an increase in the number of people in the EU, the EU Member States, the EU, the Member States and the Member States, the Member States, the Member States, and the Member States, in the Member States and the Member States, to contribute to the development, development and development of an increase in the number of people in the EU and to the number of people in the EU, the Member States and the Member States, to the extent possible, the Member States, and to the extent possible to the extent possible, and to the extent possible to the extent possible, the Member States, and the Member States, the Union, the Union and the Member States and the Member States, the Member States, and the Member States, the Member States, in the Member States, the Member States, and the Member States, the Union, the Commission and the Commission, the Member States, Member States, the Commission, the Member States and the Commission, the Commission, the Commission and the Member States, the Commission, the Member States and the Commission, the Commission, the Member States, the Commission, the Commission, the Commission and the Commission, the Commission, the Member States and the Commission, and the Member States and the Commission, the Member States of the Commission, and the Commission, the Member States, the Member States and the Commission, the Commission, the Member States, the Commission, the Member States and the Commission, the Commission, the Commission, the Member States, the Commission, the Member States and the Commission, and the Commission, the Member States and the Member States, the Commission, and the Commission, the Member States, and the Member States and the Member States, the Commission, and the Commission, the Member States and the Commission, the Commission, and the Member States and the Member States, and the Member States, and the Commission, and the Member States, of the Member States, and the Member States, and the Member States, of the Commission, the Member States, and the Member States, the Member States, and the Commission, and the Member States, the Member States, and the Commission, the Commission, and the Commission, the Commission, and the Member States, the Commission, and the Member States and the Commission, and the Commission, the Member States, of the Member States, and the bodies and bodies and bodies, bodies and the bodies and bodies and bodies and bodies and the bodies of the bodies and the
Action taken by Member States responsible for law enforcement shall be coordinated by the Forum for For-or for the exchange of law enforcement information.
On 6 December 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1488 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 6 December 2017 to 6 December 2017, for the period from 26 January 2017 to 26 December 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 6 December 2017 to 6 December 2017 for the period from 6 December 2017 to 6 December 2017.
The Agency's ability to carry out its tasks depends on the effectiveness of the practical implementation of the framework by the Member States.
In its overall report of 2017, the Agency concludes that around two thirds of companies do not update the recorded information on the quantities of chemicals they deal with.
This has a negative impact on the effective implementation of the REACH Regulation and on the reliability of calculations.
The Agency shall publish employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
OTHER COMMENTS 3.7.14.
The Agency's revenue from employment contracts with companies is indebted for the period for the registration of chemicals in the EU as defined in the REACH Regulation (2010, 2013 and 2018).
The Agency therefore does not charge periodic fees and is not able to distinguish between relatively stable expenditure and stable and less predictable revenues, which makes budget planning difficult.
The Agency shall be supported in this situation in the form of a grant which the Commission shall provide to it.
As the third and last period of registration of chemical substances under the REACH Regulation ends in 2018, income from work and salaries is expected to fall from 2019 and the Agency will continue to finance its activities from the EU budget.
OPINIONING AS BEFORE 3.7.15 The annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/59 Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 2014 Status of corrective work (closed/in progress/present/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing) In progress (1) In the course of work In the course of the work, SUPERVISION In the light of the Court's observations of previous years, expenditure related to the procedures related to the Agency's new special capacity, the implementation of the Biocidal Products Regulation, were in principle included in the Agency's assessment of the registration of biocidal products.
However, the expenditure collected in 2014 covers only 17% of these expenditures, and part of these expenditure was actually financed by the Union contribution (EUR 6,3 million) and the EFTA States (EUR 0,2 million) to the Agency's budget, and consequently EUR 10,1 million and 39% (EUR 7,3 million and 32% respectively in 2015) of the financial contribution made in the following financial year in Title III (the operational expenditure under REACH) was still EUR 1,3 million and 68 per cent (EUR 1,5 million and 74 per cent respectively in 2015).
Such a high rate of return is contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness. The Agency may try to create separate budgetary resources to better balance the multi-annual nature and the inevitable misunderstandings between contracts, deliveries and payments.
The ECHA Biocidal Products Regulation contributes to the functioning of the biocidal products and biocidal products market.
In its evaluation report of November 2016, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the structure and practical implementation of the ECHA internal control system for the Agency's processes and tasks under the Biocidal Products Regulation is effective and effective.
Although no major changes have been identified, IAS still recognises the need to improve the situation.
Unlike most other agencies, the ECHA Implementing Regulation does not require ECHA to carry out periodic external assessments of their competences, which are essential to the evaluation of the results.
(1) In 2017, the Agency adopted EUR 8.1 million (2016: EUR 7.6 million) for biocidal products (2015) amounting to 65% of the expenditure on biocidal products (2015): 62 % and 2016: 88%).
This part was financed by the Union contribution (EUR 6.3 million) and the EFTA States (EUR 0.2 million) to the Agency's budget.
DE C 434/60 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.7.10.
In this context, the relevant legislation (Regulation (EC) No 340/2008) does not provide that the Agency should not carry out an ex post, not an ex post, analysis of the provisions of Regulation (EC) No REACH concerning registration, concerning all operators active in the field of SMEs.
The Administrative Board of the Agency approved an approach whereby the registerers of SMEs make an important financial contribution (i.e. the majority of SMEs registered in the framework of the.. in terms of quantity) in the first place.
Anwesenheitberpr Agency, currently amended documents concerning the economic activity of berbpr the business activity of documents by 2015. In 2017, the Agency also drew attention to the registration companies of SMEs from the United Kingdom to include the United Kingdom before leaving the European Union. In 2017, the Agency drew attention to the registration companies of SMEs from the United Kingdom to face an accident from the United Kingdom.
In the future, we will implement the SME Allocation Agency to a greater extent on the basis of the principle of cost and benefit.
3.7.11
Regulation REACH (EC) No 340/2008 does not provide the Agency with the tools necessary to enforce the application of high administrative charges.
The Agency is actively reminding debtors of their obligation to pay; if this is not achieved, it delegates local law firms directly to complain about outstanding amounts and fees in the Member States.
To date, the firms have contacted 74% of the companies that pay the management fee, and the outcome of this initiative will be analysed the costs and benefits in order to determine the state-of-the-art activities.
Member States have primary responsibility for the enforcement of REACH and CLP, in particular for the registration of chemicals.
Ensure that the Agency is able to instruct them and to ensure that the profits from the Agency's activities are achieved to the appropriate extent depends on the effectiveness of the implementation of enforcement strategies by the national authorities in practice in order to ensure that they are able to effectively implement enforcement strategies by the national authorities.
In order to address this problem, we will talk to the Commission.
3.7.13.
The Agency takes note of the current note of several agencies, namely the horizontal issue.
The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its website, on social media and on the website of the European Agency Network (EUAN) (https://euagenties.eu/).
In order to increase transparency and publicity and to enable citizens to read the notices of employment, the Agency recommends that the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) in turn refer to the EUAN website.
3.7.14.
The original remark is correct.
The Agency shall be financed by a combination of revenue from fees and charges and by compensatory grants from the European Union.
The Agency has presented several alternative financing proposals to the Commission, including co-financing at regular intervals, as has been the case with some other EU agencies.
The Agency notes that the Commission Communication on the review of REACH Regulation of 5 March 2018 (COM (2018) 116 final) sets out all possible options to ensure the Agency's sustainable financing in the future.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/61 3.8.
INTRODUCTION 3.8.1: INTRODUCTION OF INSURANCE AND INSURANCE AND INSURANCE INSURANCE (EIOPA)
The European Supervisory Authority established in Frankfurt was established by Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (76).
The Agency's task is to contribute to the definition of common quality regulatory and supervisory standards and practices, to contribute to co-decision on the application of binding Union legislation, to encouraging and facilitating the delegation of tasks and competences of workers, to the monitoring and evaluation of market developments as regards their competences, as well as to the protection of policyholders, persons applying for pensions and workers.
3.8.2.
The table sets out the most important figures for the Behazarde (77).. for Behaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 24 Total staff at 31 December (1) 151 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by staff.
WRITE NOT DELIVERED BY THE WORD DELIVERING IN 2016 TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CONDITIONS IN 2016 OF THE BEST IN 2016 WEST DELIVERMENT OF THE BEST DELIVERY TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL IN 2016
(a) the annual accounts of the company consisting of the annual accounts ((78) and the budget implementation reports) (f) of 31 December 2017; and (b) the legal report and the financial statements. of implementation of the budget (79) (f) of 31 December 2017; and (b) the legal report and the correctness of the underlying annual accounts...) § Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
According to our assessment, the annual accounts of F shall not, within one year, in the year ending 31 December 2017, properly, the financial position of the company on 31 December 2017, the results, cash flows and net changes of F in the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the Commission, based on the international accounting bases in the public sector.
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 48.
(47) For more information on Beh's achievements and achievements, see www.eiopa.europa.eu.
78. The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, an overview of the financial situation, an account of capital flows, a table of net changes, as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases, as well as any other explanations.
1979 The budget implementation reports include reviews of revenue and expenditure and discharges.
EN C 434/62 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the annual accounts The preparation and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.8.5. It follows from our assessment that the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects. It is established that revenue..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts 3.8.6.
Note 3.8.7. The Court notes that the United Kingdom informed the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to leave the European Union.
40% of the EU budget comes from the European Union and 60% from the direct contributions of the EU Member States.
Following the UK decision to leave the EU, the revenue from Beh Ward will fall significantly.
3.8.8.
COMMENTS ON THE COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.8.9.
In Beh Warsaw, Head of Corporate Support, Head of Invoicing Department.
The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).This will lead to transparency and publication not only but also to transparency and publication among citizens and citizens in connection with notices of employment among the various European institutions and agencies (ESSO) and European agencies (EVA).EXTERNERELACIES shall not be able to understand the results and results, with the exception of the results referred to in Article 3 (11) (3) (a) and Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and in Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1290/2013 and Article 2 (3) (a) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1290/2013 (EU) No 1290/2013 (EU) No 1290/2013 (EU) No 1290/2013 (EU, Euratom) No 1290/2013 (a) No 1290/2013 (EU) No 1290/2013 (EU, Euratom) No 1290/2013 and Article 3 (2) (b) and (2) (b) of Article 3 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1310/2013 (EU, Euratom) No 1290/2013 (EU) No 1293/2013 and (EU) No 1293/2013 (EU) and Article 3 (2) and Article 3 (2) (b (2) (b) and (2) (b) of Article 3 (2) and (2) (b) of Article 2 (b) (b) and (2) (b) of Article 3 (2) (b) of Article 3 (2) and (b) of Regulation (b) (b) of Regulation (EU, and (2) (EU, and (EU, (b) (b) No 1310/2013 (EU, and (EU) No 129) No 1293/2013 (EU, and (b) and (EU, and 2 (b) of Article 3 (EU, respectively (EU, and 2 (EU, respectively and 2 and 2 of Article 3 (b) of Article 2 (b) of Article 3 (2) (b) of Article 3 (2) (b) No 129 (2) (b) of Regulation (b) of Article 2 and 2 (EU, respectively (b) of Regulation (b) and 2 (b) and 2 (b) of Article 2 and (b) of Article 2 (b) of Regulation (EU, 3 of Article 2 and 3 of Regulation (EU, respectively of Article 2 (EU) of Regulation (b) and 2 (b) 2 (b) and 3 (b) (
In 2017, the Commission carried out an external evaluation of the three European Supervisory Representatives (80) (81).
(80) EIOPA, the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority and the Market Surveillance Authority.
(81) The Court has not carried out this assessment.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/63 ANSWERS BEH RDE 3.8.9.
By April 2018, the annual report was addressed to the head of the financial assistance department for companies and to the Management Board.
With regard to this provision, no conflict was established with the hierarchical and functional non-compliance of that entity, taking into account the shorter assessment with which the accounting of that entity is functionally carried out.
In May 2018, changes were made to clarify the accounting position in the following new reporting lines: hierarchical reports to the Executive Director and functional reports to the Management Board.
3.8.10.
In order to publish employment notices on the EPSO website, they should be translated into 24 EU official languages.
Since this has a major budgetary impact, EIOPA has decided to use other media for which most EU agencies publish recruitment notices.
EIOPA also uses the Inter-Agence Job Advertising Board, a common platform for the Inter-Agence Job Advertising Board, created by the network of agencies to which everyone has access.
In addition, EIOPA shall conduct a joint procurement procedure for the award of public contracts in order to increase the visibility and visibility of recruitment procedures in the EU.
DE C 434/64 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Social Fund (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965).
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (hereinafter referred to as the "Institut ădas', including the ăEIT Institute, based in Budapest) was established by Regulation (EC) No 294/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council[8].
The aim of the Institute is to contribute to sustainable economic growth in Europe and to increase competitiveness by stimulating the innovation potential of the Member States and the European Union.
The Institute is in favour of a growing number of Knowledge and Innovation Communities (CIPs) which combine in the field of higher education, research and the economy in order to promote innovation and entrepreneurship, in order to obtain grants.
The KICs shall coordinate the activities of hundreds of partners.
3.9.2.
The table presents the main figures for the Institute (83).
Table Key figures for the Institute for 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 303 Total budget at 31 December (2) 60 (1) Budget information is based on payment appropriations. (2) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data submitted by the Institute. W. EUROP PRODUCER... AND COUNCIL PRODUCER PRODUCER: DIRECT DIRECT PRODUCER AND DIRECT AUTHORITIES IN 2016 W..U.C. 59. PRODUCER LAW 3.9.3.
We checked: (a) the annual accounts of the institutions consisting of the annual accounts:[84] and the accounts for the implementation of the budget: (85) f (a) the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and legality of the underlying annual accounts: (a) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Opinion on the compatibility of the accounts 3.9.4.
In accordance with our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts at the end of 31 December 2017 reflect at 31 December 2017 the Institute's financial situation, the results of the Institute's assumptions and cash flows and net changes as at 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's official, based on recognised international accounting bases from the public sector.
OJ L 97, 9.4.2008, p. 1.
(83) For more information on the Institute's competences and competences, see the Institute's website: https://eit.europa.eu/ verf on the Institute's website: https://eit.europa.eu/.
(84) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, and a summary of accounting assumptions and other changes in net value.
(85) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include reviews which shall collect the estimates of revenue and expenditure as well as depreciation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/65 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.9.5. According to our assessment, the underlying revenue for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payment of the decision on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.9.6.
Other comments 3.9.7.
In December 2016,... shortly before the end of the summer period (1 January 2016-31 December 2016)..
The amendment of individual financial assistance agreements with Climate KIC was signed even in January 2017, after the end of the 2017 period.
By increasing the refund agreed in these changes, the KICs received €15 million in the EIT financial contribution (6.0 million in the KICs, €5.6 million in the EIT Health framework, €2.2 million in the InnoEnergy KICs and €1.2 million in the EIT Raw Materials framework).
This approach is contrary to the intention to maximise the ability of KICs to create funding sources and to encourage them to gradually reduce their financial capacity with the EIT.
It may also weaken fair competition between KICs as co-financing expenditure also plays a role in annual grant programmes.
3.9.8.
In addition, as a result of changes in bottlenecks in the activities of KIC InnoEnergy and EIT Digital, some activities which are not envisaged in the original scope were included, in a total value of approximately EUR 3.3 million and EUR 0.6 million.
The Court considers that the amendment to the original business plan to be added to the KIC, InnoEnergy, constitutes a major change, on the basis of which the maximum maximum amount of the grant was granted.
Since the amount of grants granted to individual KICs is the result of the implementation evaluation procedure to which its initial proposals are based, significant changes which, in accordance with the initial proposals of the KICs, may undermine applications for grants and equal treatment of KICs and are therefore in breach of Article 180 (4) of the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation.
3.9.9.
COMMENTS ON THE COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTING OF 3.9.10.
In 2017, the Institute launched the payment system in paper form.
Although this has led to changes in its invoicing procedures and system, the invoicing system has not been re-approved since 2012.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.9.11
In order to further strengthen the internal system of control of grants for KICs, the EIT has introduced centralised ex ante controls for those KICs partners whose cost indicators have increased by EUR 325 000.
The audits were carried out on behalf of the EIT (86) by two companies involved in economic surveillance and by the financial statements certified by the KICs' partners.
The results of the ex-post audits carried out by another economic audit company employed by the EIT confirm the effectiveness and importance of the new approach to certified financial statements, as most of the significant errors found concerned financial statements which were not subject to ex-ante controls.
(86) In previous years, previous audits have been carried out by numerous private audit firms acting on behalf of individual KICs partners whose cost statements were higher than the threshold of EUR 325 000 (refund of actual costs and unit costs).
DE C 434/66 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.12.
The crisis action plan and emergency action plan were adopted in 2013 and are obsolete.
For example, in 2017 more than more than the members of the crisis management team did not work at the EIT.
The work on updating the version of Plzen has been on for two years, but has not yet been adopted.
As in previous years, KICs have not fully implemented the EIT grants.
The accepted total costs of the activity of the KICs in terms of value added in the activities of the KICs that were in operation before 2016 were 15% lower than those of the individual financial assistance agreements concluded in the beginning of 2016 (87).
In view of the lack of use of funds, several of the funds continued to be illegal with the use of... with the use of... with the agreement...with...with the agreement...with the agreement...with...with the agreement... with the agreement... with the agreement....................................................................................................................................with................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... with....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the cost to support support the promotion of support for the promotion of SMEs (see point 3.9.7). for the benefit of the benefit of SMEs (see point 3.9.7).
In particular, the Second Wave KICs (EIT Health and RawMaterials) faced delays in the acquisition of knowledge.
For first wave KICs, in accordance with the evaluation reports of the EIT, in particular with regard to the performance of the Climate KICs.
3.9.14.
The EIT has carried out an evaluation of the EIT's work results, after which it has calculated some adjustments.
However, none of the KICs had a financial impact on these corrections.
In line with Horizon 2020 methodology, the calculation of the EIT grant only applies two levels for the corrections required by the financial control and the evaluation of the results.
W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W
There should be doubts as to whether adjustments to results should be added, e.g. for educational activists, to adjustments to financial control, which may relate to, for example, innovative projects.
3.9.15.
In 2017, all KICs adopted strategies for 2017 and 2017, in line with the EIT guidelines, which in turn represents an important step towards greater future stability of the KICs.
Nevertheless, first wave KICs continued to generate low revenues (from 2 to 6 per cent of KIC's value added costs) and low progress was made in 2017.
Co-financing from KIC partners is also still low (and is smaller than that provided for in individual financing agreements signed earlier): KIC assets with added value are still financed up to 62% to 90% for EIT financing, depending on KIC.
3.9.16.
The EIT publishes employment notices on its own website and on the website of the Directorate-General for Human Resources and Security, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.9.17.
Given the fact that the agencies should establish a single system for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (88), given the fact that the system also includes the EU institutions, the Commission is developing a single IT system comprising all stages of public procurement procedures.
The Commission has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic invitations to tender in the electronic version of the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and electronic invoicing (2015).
OTHER COMMENTS 3.9.18.
The current interim director of the EIT took office in July 2014.
In 2016, the procedure for the selection of a new director was started, but it did not work.
No new recruitment procedures have been initiated since then.
That department is contrary to the statutes which provide that the post may be filled for a period of one year for a period of one year.
3.9.19.
Article 5.1 of the Statute of the EIT ă[] directly recruited the EIT under temporary employment procedures.
The EIT may therefore only offer temporary temporary leave to its temporary staff with a higher age leave which may be lost for a period of five years for a period of five years.
The staff who soon called on the EIT to participate in the project in 2009 will reach the maximum period of the 2020 agreement, which in the coming years may lead to the continuation of the activities and management.
(87) I is still 6% lower than the individual grant agreements, which were amended in December 2016 and January 2017.
(88) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government.)
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/67 INTERNAL DELIVERING REPORTS AND EXTERNAL REPORTS 3.9.20.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) discussed how the Institute.
The Institute has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where the situation is likely to improve.
3.9.21.
Between 2016 and 2017, the EIT was evaluated mid-term in 2011-2015 on behalf of the Commission (90).
This annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(89) The farm didn't make these laborious (wooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
(90) The Court has not carried out this assessment.
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1084/98 of 22 December 1997 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EEC) No 659/1999 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1). (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1). (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1). (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1). (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1).
According to the Institute's 2014 estimates, the need for budgetary resources was too high by EUR 13.1 million and EUR 3.4 million and 2,5% in 2013, and therefore the estimates of EUR 233.1 million were for only EUR 220 million.
The small use of resources is generally allocated to grants to KICs (€11.4 million) to fund the KIC's potential.
Based on the KICs grant agreements, no full use was necessary of the funds available to the Institute for the period 2014-2014.
Unused appropriations will be entered in the budget for the period 2015-2017 in accordance with the Institute's Financial Regulation.
Although KICs must continue to make full use of the funding of the KICs' Institute and partners, they must continue to make full use of the funding of the KICs and the KICs during the first and third years of their existence.
Since the establishment of the Institute in 2009, there have been considerable fluctuations in employment and instability...
Since 2013, two of the three management posts have remained uninstalled.
One of them has been released since 2013 ad interim, which is contrary to the statute, which provides for a period of one year.
The second one now has COO, which is also a temporary director, which, at the same time, has three functions.
In Special Report No 4/2016, the Court concluded that the condition that the EIT's contribution to the KICs should not exceed 25% does not bring significant benefits and that the abolition of the contribution significantly reduces the burden on the KICs' partners by operational and financial reporting (4).
However, these certificates are very different in quality terms, which means that they are limited in terms of safety and that the Institute must carry out additional checks.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/69
In particular, the Institute aims to obtain a significant and growing part of its budget from private financial agencies and from revenues generated from its own experience. In particular, the Institute aims to obtain a significant part of its budget from the budget of private financial agencies and revenues from its own experience.
Despite this provision, which explicitly refers to the EIT budget, the Horizon 2020 contribution represented 99% of its 2015 budget.
Although the institution may use unused funds (i.e. unused funds or released at the end of the year) for the next three years, it has not amended its procedures in time to allow the use of EUR 26.6 million in the budgets for 2015-2017 on the basis of the 2014 grant agreements.
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on research and development as KICs have acquired less funding than expected.
In line with the initial objective of the Commission in 2010, the Institute should have financial autonomy.
However, in June 2011, the Institute received only partially financial autonomy because, in June 2011, it continues to be subject, with the agreement of the Directorate-General for Education and Culture (His Community) to the need for grants and procurement procedures worth EUR 60,000.
The Institute supports the EIT Digital Master School programme, involving 16 European Universities.
The decision-making model for the reimbursement of the university is based on a combination of a lump sum of EUR 8000/beneficiary studies (in line with the provisions of the Erasmus Mundus programme) plus lump sum indirect costs.
On this basis, universities received an average of EUR 15 000/students (including lump sums) in 2015.
However, at no time was this model set in a comfortable manner, and it is not possible to determine which benefits in a lump sum and which costs are thus incurred.
Institutions should change the way costs are borne into a transparent and confidential model based on a single method, such as a single lump sum based on the costs covered.
Year 2015 Correction date (completed/completed/completed/n.d.)
The practice of the Court of practice of the Court of practice of the Court of practice of the Court of Justice The practice of budgetary economics was met when another KIC partner contracted, through a procurement procedure, public procurement services of between EUR 800 and EUR 3 250 for a person who was repaid by the Institute in full (7).
In 2015 and 2016, the Institute applied a framework agreement concluded by the Commission on the organisation of a conference on innovation.
The prices established for these services ranged from EUR 800 per day for one junior consultant up to EUR 2 250 per day for one senior consultant (and were nearly four times the price established in the framework agreement for one junior consultant).
The services ordered at these prices amount to more than EUR 100 000 per conference.
The Court noted shortcomings in ex post controls in the procurement procedures carried out by the KIC's legal entities.
At least for one of the KICs' legal entities, the selection of the procurement procedures to be carried out was not to the public.
The Court came to another conclusion in two procurement procedures in respect of the above-mentioned law and order.
In these flanks, the Institute accepted a direct request or extension of the report.
The Commission's internal audit report ăGrant Management: Transition to Horizon 2020 to Horizon 2020 states that Transition to Horizon 2020 of the Commission's report (IAS) has successfully adapted its procedures to the current Horizon 2020 rules, in particular as regards the rules for participation, and that the initial audit carried out by the Institute has proved to be an effective way of supporting new KICs.
The IAS also stated that urgent action should be taken to ensure that the legal framework that applies under Horizon 2020 applies and to further improve the initial stage of the creation of new KICs and that the Institute and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan under Horizon 2020.
Title II uses high rates of appropriations for the following financial year, i.e. EUR 0,4 million or 40% (EUR 0,4 million or 44% respectively in 2015).
These capacities mainly concern annual expenditure on IT services and meeting costs for which invoices have not yet been received.
2015: 2015: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2015: 2015: 2015: 2015: 2015: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: year 2016: 2016: 2016: year 2016: 2016: 2016: year 2016: 2015: 2015: 2015: year 2015: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: year 2016: 2016: year 2016: 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2015: year 2015: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year: year:
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/71 PL The Court's observations of the Grants for the calendar year 2015 were granted only in April 2015 and the grant agreements were signed in June and July 2015.
In March 2016, grants were granted and grant agreements were signed in April 2016.
Despite the improvement in 2016, these problems in respect of grant applications and the signing of non-sustainable grant agreements contribute to increasing the commitment of the partners in... ownership and accountability at the beginning of the year.
The most up-to-date calls for new KICs, the themes of which have been identified in the EIT Strategic Innovation Programme 2014-2020, have been limited to competition.
In 2014, only seven proposals were submitted at the invitation of two KICs (health and rawmaterials) launched in two KICs.
In response to the 2016 call, published by the two additional KICs (Food and Manufacturing),..." three conclusions have been received and the only proposal of the KICs (added value in the production......,...... and in the Quarit... and....,...,......,...,...,...,...,...,...,...,...,...,...,,...,...,...,...,...,......,...,...,...,......,....,..., and...,....,...,...,...,...,...,...,....,....,...,...,....,...,...,....,...,....,...,....,...,....,....,...,....,...., and....,....,...,...,...,....,....,....,...,....,....,...,....,...,....,....,....,....,...,.... and in response to the 2016 call published by two additional KICs (Food and Manufacturing),....
The Director has been Director since August 2014... and has been acting as interim director since February 2013.
This not only does not agree with the statute, which does not last for more than one year, not only with the impatient change and the long-term temporary change concerned the stakeholders, but also with the strategic continuities. The Institute is an important player in the implementation of Horizon 2020, in which in the period 2014-2020 it was €2.4 billion.
The Commission has set up a central support body for Horizon 2020 to ensure coherence to ensure coherence between actors in the programme in areas such as legal services, IT tools, grant management, dissemination and exploitation of research results, etc.
However, unlike Commission executive agencies and public-private partnerships, the Institute does not have direct access to the aid agency, but must, in any case, obtain the approval of the Commission's Directorate-General.
This objective has an impact on the effectiveness of the Institute's activities.
Year 2016 Status of repair work (completed/completed/completed/n.d.)
C 434/72 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN The Court's comments Coordination and representation of KICs are provided by the KICs' legal entities, which are almost fully financed by the Institute.
The Court paid particular attention to procurement procedures by those authorities which it considers to be a high risk area.
Under the 2015 grant agreements, KIC legal entities and/or KIC partners must ensure that, in the case of public procurement, grant agreements are most effectively carried out, or that the lowest price criterion is met, where appropriate.
In the case of all KICs applications or KICs partners, in accordance with grant agreements, legal persons must invite at least three economic operators to submit tenders and document the procurement procedure in order to demonstrate their transparency.
The Court examined a sample of procurement procedures worth around EUR 7 million financed entirely and entirely by the EIT by the KIC legal entities.
It was confirmed that the absence of significant elements in public procurement is significant, e.g. direct public procurement, the absence of significant elements in public procurement, the significant extension of the scope and/or scope of primary public procurement, the absence of time limits and/or scope and/or the absence of restrictions, the absence of restrictions on the scope/or scope, the increase in quality/characterisation, which made price competition more effective.
The Institute also noted that legal persons were also identified in the procurement procedures for the KIC's legal entity and developed an action plan to significantly improve the procurement procedures for all KIC's legal entities.
Despite a significant increase in the budget from EUR 309 million (2008-2013) to EUR 2,4 billion (2014-2020) and although the number of KICs increased from 6 to less so far from the end of 2016 (see Table 2).
As the Court stated in Special Report No 4/2016 [9], there is a risk that the Institute will not have sufficient workload in a satisfactory manner.
The Institute's interim director drew attention to this risk in the Institute's annual activity report for 2015.
In particular, from 2016 grant agreements shall specify the maximum administrative costs (not subject to the control of the Institute) (1) (3) (4) (1) (8) (9).
In 2016, the demand for 2016 was too high by EUR 13,1 million and 5,0% (EUR 25 million in 2015 and 9,4% in 2015), which means that only EUR 240,9 million was earmarked for means for the road.
Unused appropriations may be carried over to the 2017-2019 budget.
The EIT funded on average 90 % of the primary costs reported by the KICs under the 2015 grant agreements.
The costs collected by the KICs from different sources were 2.5% of the budget proposed by the EIT.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology must amend its implementation mechanisms and certain conceptual elements in order to achieve the expected effect.
The EIT shall continue to apply the EIT Regulation in a different way as set out in its response to the 2015 report.
In 2016, universities received an average of EUR 17 000 per year per student on the basis of the models described on the basis of a combination of actual costs and flat-rate costs. This model was set at the end of 2016 and is to be applied from 2017.
In 2016 (the 2015 proposal for financial support), the EIT reimbursed EUR 410 000 for this task.
The soldier's position was taken in February 2018.
In June 2018, the Commission initiated the recruitment procedure for the position of Director.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology needs to amend its implementation mechanisms and certain conceptual elements in order to achieve the expected effect.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/73 ANSWERS OF THE INSTITUTIONS 3.9.7.
The EIT wishes to clarify that for individual financial assistance agreements under the framework agreements of the KICs, the EIT may be submitted at any time during the transitional period.
The evaluation of the technical and financial evaluation of the EIT and the prior approval of the European Commission was carried out under the KICs initiative under the Change Initiative.
Amendments were signed in December 2016.
In the case of EIT Climate-KIC, the KICs were formally notified of the adoption of the amendment proposal on 21 December 2016 (i.e. during the transitional period).
As regards the execution of individual payments, the EIT notes that the KICs have not been paid the additional amount of the grant resulting from changes in individual grant agreements in 2016.
The total amount of the final financial contribution (EUR 241.8 million) was significantly lower than the amount initially paid (EUR 274.9 million).
As regards the call on the KICs to create their own sources of funding and funding, we refer to our response to section 3.9.15.
Following an evaluation of the amendment measure, the EIT, after consulting the European Commission, concluded that the adjustment of each refund was in line with the legal basis in force and did not affect the equal treatment of the KICs.
The possibility of adjusting individual refunds was open on equal terms for all KICs.
As regards the second observation, the EIT considers that the amendments to Article 180 (4) of the implementing rules were in line with the Financial Regulation as they did not undermine the rules on the award of grants and did not undermine the equal treatment of applicants.
It should be noted that there is no provision on the materiality threshold that indicates what change should be considered important in assessing whether the change is not material in relation to financial support.
In order to determine whether the adoption of new competences is compatible with this provision, it is appropriate to determine, on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the adequacy and impact of the new competences on the whole development plan of the KICs.
The EIT assessed before approving the EIT and concluded that these changes did not undermine the grant decision.
As each KIC had the opportunity to integrate new skills into its revised activities on equal terms, ensuring equal treatment for KICs was also important.
In addition, the EIT notes that, for EIT InnoEnergy, only 3.9% of the revised budget estimate of the KICs financing plan was the only subject of the dispute.
For EIT, this figure was 0.6%.
3.9.10.
3.9.12.
In 2018, the EIT shall adopt updated versions of the contingency plan and the contingency plan for the re-launch after the system failure.
3.9.13.
The 2016 individual grant agreements with EIT Health and EIT RawMaterials were signed late than foreseen, given the need to sign the Framework Partnership Agreements.
Individual aid agreements for 2017 and 2018 were systematically signed in February in order for the KICs to absorb their activities in a given year.
Due to the dynamic and dynamic and dynamic nature of innovative activities, it is not possible to plan linearly.
Some innovative projects or projects do not meet their expectations and cannot be abolished during the implementation of the grant agreements or cannot be implemented by the KICs, such as master's and doctoral studies or long-term research and innovation projects.
The EIT intends to conclude a grant agreement with the KICs for many years after 2020, provided that the EIT budget... the commitment appropriations are allocated in instalments for more than one year.
In fact, the EIT has complied with the methodology for calculating the subsidy provided for in the legal basis of the Horizon 2020 in a non-conditional manner and will continue to comply with the existing rules.
The KIC's financial age is a unique ambition of the EIT-KIC model and one of the most difficult aspects of the EIT's mission.
Some innovation communities can already show serious co-financing to solve problems and can generate significant revenues compared to their budgets.
The EIT decided to use 26% (EUR 22 million) co-financing to cover the cost of KIC added value activities in 2016. In addition, the partner organisations have implemented and implemented more than EUR 200 million of KIC activities at more than EUR 200 million.
Another example is EIT Health: KIC achieved 6 million euro of revenue in its first year of operation compared to total funding of the EIT (about 19 million euro).
DE C 434/74 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.17.
The EIT intends to introduce tools for the electronic call for tenders and the submission of tenders after the necessary contracts have been concluded with the European Commission.
3.9.18.
On 1 June 2018, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2018/25 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 June 2018 to 31 June 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2018 to 25 June 2020.
In 2010, the EIT received the first staff, leading to a maximum 10-year period of employment by 2020.
The EIT is aware of the risks also mentioned in the annual activity report of the EIT in 2017.
By letter dated 14 May 2018, the EIT requested a legal opinion from the European Commission.
OJ C 187 A, 1.6.2018, p. 6.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/75 3.10.
EUROPE AGENCY provided information on maritime transport safety (EMSA) INTRODUCTION 3.10.1
The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) established in Lisbon was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council (92).
The Agency's tasks include: managing a high level of maritime safety, reducing ship pollution, technical support from Member States and the Commission, monitoring the application of Union rules and assessing their effectiveness.
3.2.2.
The table presents the most important figures for the Agency (2000).
Table Key figures for the Agency in 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff on 31 December (2) 250 (1) Budget information is based on payment appropriations. (2) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff, contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
owned by the Court of Justice of the European Parliament and of the Council
We have analysed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts, including annual accounts:[94] and budget implementation reports: (95) of 31 December 2017, and (b) the Agency's annual accounts, including implementation reports: (95) of 31 December 2017, (doc.) of the legality and regularity of the implementation of the budget: (doc.) and (doc.) of the legality and regularity on which this annual accounts are based: (doc.) §. (doc.) of Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its activities and the cash flows, as well as the net changes for the public sector as at 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, on the basis of international accounting rules.
OJ L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1.
393. More information on the Agency's achievements and achievements can be obtained on the Agency's website: www.emsa.europa.eu verf at www.emsa.europa.eu.
(94) The annual accounts shall contain financial reviews, financial statements, a table of net changes, and a summary of the financial statements and other net changes.
(95) The budget implementation reports shall include an overview of revenue and expenditure, which summarise expenditure and expenditure forecasts and clean-up.
DE C 434/76 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the annual financial statements The preliminary revenue and the order of revenue on which the annual financial statements are based are in all material respects, legal and regular.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.10.6.
3.10.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.10.8.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including agencies) on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies.
The employer of the framework agreement will be the intermediary between the Agency and the undertakings that can meet the needs of the Agency.
In 2017, the supplier of the framework contract received a payment of EUR 1.7 million from the supplier of the framework contract from EUR 1.7 million.
The Agency does not compare the prices charged and the fees charged to the company's offers and does not systematically examine the invoices issued to the contractor of the framework agreement. COMMENTS ON BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE 3.10.9. The Agency publishes notices on its own website and on the social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.10.10.
Within the framework of the framework Financial Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in the procurement procedures (96) (97), in view of the fact that this requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT network that covers all stages of the procurement procedure.
It initiated tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and submission of tenders in electronic form (2015).
REPORTS ON THE AUDIT SERVICES OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT REPORTS 3.10.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented reports on the implementation of actions financed from projects and human resources management[98].
3.10.12.
In 2017, the Commission carried out an external evaluation of the Agency's performance in 2011-2016 (99).
The Agency has developed an action plan to assist corrective action in areas where there is a risk that there is a need to improve...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(96) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government)
(97) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the eGovernment (ăe-Government.)
(98) The farm did not carry out this non-supply work.
(99) The Court has not carried out this assessment of Spurweiteberpr of revenue.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/77 PL ANNEX Follow-up of the Court's observations of previous years In 2014, the Agency concluded a framework agreement of EUR 3.5 million for the purchase of goods and services in the IT sector for a period of six years.
The Agency challenged the demand and the foreseeable value of the contract, which led to the contract being challenged by 80% by the end of 2016.
The procurement procedure will have to start four years later than expected, with additional administrative costs.
In 2016, the Agency completed 7 rationalisation in the labour market, having acquired pollution management systems.
Each framework agreement (each batch in the award procedure) referred to a specific contract.
The procurement procedure was launched on the assumption that the total value of the seven framework agreements would be EUR 7 million.
However, this approval undermined the needs of the Agency and signed the seven financial frameworks for the amount of EUR 7 million, of which the Vertridge accounts for EUR 49 million.
Year 2016 Year 2016 Year 2016 Year ended/set/set/infinite/n.a. n.a. n.a.
DE C 434/78 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.10.8.
The Agency will remind the staff responsible for the project to consistently search the necessary price checks collected by the supplier and/or to search for whether appropriate fee checks apply.
EMSA will also encourage the contracting entity that will carry out business activities to report regularly to the contractor to always confirm the market price/payment when responding to the contracts.
3.10.9.
Following a judicial ruling, EPSO has ruled that only employment notices can be published on the EPSO website in the official languages of the European Union or in the languages indicated in the Agency's implementing act.
Due to the high costs of translating this new policy (about EUR 19000 per tender unit), EMSA Kalendermonot, like many other agencies, no longer benefits from EPSO services when submitting employment offers.
In December 2015, some agencies turned against EPSO.
EMSA considers that it is sufficiently transparent and is in line with the principle of sound financial management.
The Agency shall endeavour to make available employment notices to the general public by spreading them to the various social media used by many people.
It should be noted that most EMSA alerts are addressed to technical specialists who regularly use EMSA's website.
In 2017, EMSA has carried out extensive preparations to adapt all internal procedures to the use of e-procurement.
EMSA can best confirm that it uses EMSA electronic procurement modules from the beginning of 2018.
The deadline for the use of e-procurement by the EU institutions is October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/79 3.11.
THE EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY INTRODUCTION 3.11.1 The Network AGENCY AND INFORMATION SECURITY (ENISA).
The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) with its seat in Athens and Heraklion[100]) was established by Regulation (EC) No 460/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (101) and replaced by Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 (102) after several amendments.
The Agency's primary task is to improve the Union's capacity to address and solve network and information security problems by taking advantage of actions taken at national and Union level.
3.11.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (103).
Table Main figures for the Agency for 2017 Budget (million euro) 11 Total staff on 31 December (1) 70 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the Agency's annual accounts (104) and the budget implementation accounts (105) f:r, the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
On the basis of our assessment of the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Agency's annual accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Agency's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Agency's annual accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Agency's annual accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's annual accounts for 31 December 2017, the annual accounts for 31 December 2017, the annual accounts for 31 December 2017, the annual accounts for 31 December 2017, the annual accounts for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the annual accounts for 31 December 2017.
(100) In 2013, the Agency's operational staff were transferred to Athens.
OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 1.
OJ L 165, 18.6.2013, p. 41.
(103) For more information on the Agency's capabilities and capabilities, see the Agency's website www.enisa.europa.eu.
(104) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, the financial statements, the table of net changes as well as a summary of routine accounting accounts as well as other corrections.
(105) The budget implementation reports shall include budget reviews which shall provide estimates of revenue and expenditure and, where appropriate, of revenue and expenditure fraud.
EN C 434/80 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the annual accounts The regulated revenue and the regularity of the revenue carried out by the Commission 3.11.5. According to our assessment, the revenue to be paid by the Commission in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Decision on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts 3.11.6.
3.11.7.
COMMENTS ON THE AWARD OF ACCOUNTING COMMENTS 3.11.8.
The new Accounting Officer of the Agency took office on 1 December 2017.
The data transmission process has not been excluded and has not complied with the requirements laid down in Article 55 of the implementing rules.
In particular, the new accounting officer has not received a report on the implementation of the budget. COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY COMMENTS AND USE 3.11.9. The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its website and on the social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.1110.
External evaluation report 3.11.11.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance in 2013-2016 (106) was carried out on behalf of the Commission.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(106) The estate did not do this work work did not do.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/81 (1) According to ENISA, the number of employees has been reduced to 11 employees at the end of 2017.Year 2015 2016 Status of correction (completed/standing/standing/standing) In 2016 n.a. DE ANNEX In the light of the Court's observations of previous years, the Agency plans to partially transfer administrative staff from Heraklion to Athens in 2016.
In Title II (administrative expenditure) the appropriations entered for the following financial year amount to EUR 0,3 million and 25% (2015: EUR 0,15 million and 22% respectively).
This high rate can generally be attributed to the appropriations under Title I (staff expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) and is mainly linked to IT investments shortly before the end of the year and the purchase of a business car.
In accordance with the Agency's financial rules, external evaluations of the Agency's performance were carried out in 2014 and 2015 and the final reports were presented in October 2015 and May 2016 respectively.
The 2014 assessment concluded that the main operational elements developed under the 2014 Work Programme were clearly linked to the Agency's legal mandate and the Agency's effectiveness was assessed as good.
Nevertheless, the need to improve the division of the agencies between Heraklion and Athens has been identified, leading to hard work and the lack of communication and cooperation.
The 2015 assessment concluded that the Agency's tasks and results meet the needs for network and information security across the EU and in the Member States and that the Agency effectively meets the expectations of its stakeholders.
However, the report stresses that communication between the Agency and its stakeholders is too limited in the opinion of the Agency, its mandate and its scope.
The Agency is currently implementing an action plan, which resulted in it being agreed with the Management Board.
In 2016, the Agency transferred eight additional staff to Athens, thus reducing the number of staff in Heraklion to 14 (1).
The Court's 2013 report concluded that the collection of all staff in one place would probably further reduce costs.
DE C 434/82 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.11.8.
Although the informal transfer of the new agency's accounts has never been formalized, informal sessions have been held in order to communicate the information to the new agency.
The new accountant also received updated training on the SAP programme to ensure a good understanding of the invoicing system.
However, ENISA will take corrective action to ensure an adequate delegation of powers to staff of spreading and new workers.
3.11.9.
In some cases, job questions published by EPSO must be translated into all EU official languages.
Due to the limited budget of ENISA, it is unfortunately unable to bear these costs.
However, the Agency uses traditional and social media and has committed itself to working together to create a decentralised portal to reduce the risk of the publication of a job notice, as many decentralised institutions face the same problem.
ENISA has not carried out a formal operational and financial review of Brexit as it has no significant direct impact on the budget, operation and management of ENISA.
However, in the context of Brexit, internal procedures (e.g. purchases and settings) have been developed in this context.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/83 3.12.
RAIL AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (ERA) INTRODUCTION 3.12.1.
The European Union Railway Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) established in Lille and Valenciennes was established by Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, replaced by Regulation (EU) 2016/796 of the European Parliament and of the Council (107).
The Agency's task is to improve the interoperability of rail systems and to develop a common approach to safety in order to contribute to the creation of a more competitive European rail sector with a high level of safety.
3.1.2.2.
The table below presents the main figures for the Agency (108).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 31 Total staff on 31 December (1) 164 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
Unique An erection In 2016 28 155................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
We discussed: (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (109) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (110) f for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the Agency's annual accounts (109) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (110) f for the financial year ending 31 December 2017;
In our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall present the Agency's annual accounts as at 31 December 2017, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Agency's financial results for 31 December 2017, the Agency's financial results for 31 December 2017 and the net changes for the year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on recognised international accounting bases...
(107) OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1.
OJ L 220, STATISTICS, p. 3 and OJ L 220, 3.6.2004, p. 3.
Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1).
(108) For more information on the Agency's tasks and tasks, see the Agency's website www.era.europa.eu.
(109) The financial statements shall include financial reviews, financial results, cash flow accounts, net changes table, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases as well as other recovery results.
(110) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, including the calculation of expenditure.
EN C 434/84 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the financial statements Aity subject to approval Income subject to approval Income subject to approval Income subject to approval Income subject to approval for the purposes of assessment for the purposes of the assessment of the investigation and regularity of income underlying the financial statements for the purposes of the investigation and investigation of financial statements for the purposes of the assessment and assessment of compliance for the purpose of the financial statements for the purposes of the investigation and investigation for the purposes of the analysis and assessment of the compliance of investigation and investigation income and compliance.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.12.6.
3.12.7.
COMMENTS ON ACCOUNTING ACCOUNTABILITY 3.12.8
In December 2016, the Agency's accounting officer was also appointed the interim director of the Financial and Procurement Department.
Within this additional function, he shall be responsible for the management of the staff responsible for initiating and checking commitments and payments.
The financial rules of the Agency shall provide that those financial entities shall be subject to the authorising officer.
However, in accordance with the principle of division of responsibilities, authorising and clearing officers are separate functions.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor. On behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency) concerning the purchase of IT equipment and software and maintenance and support services (IT services).
In the case of a paid payment of approximately EUR 47 000, the Agency purchased IT services for the contractor without a competitive procedure or prior market analysis. In 2017, a payment of EUR 1.1 million of EUR 1.1 million was made to the contractor.
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL SERVICES 3.12.10.
In 2017, the Internal Audit Service submitted to the Commission an evaluation report on the management of the Agency's staff and skills[112].
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a likelihood of a need for improvement.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years. (111) The Court has not examined the work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/85 EN ANNEX Further application of the Court's observations of previous years The Agency's seat is in Lille and Valenciennes.
As the Court pointed out in its Special Annual Report for the financial year 2006, costs could probably be reduced in connection with the pooling of all possibilities in one place.
This may also facilitate the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement with the Member State in which the Agency has its seat and therefore the conditions under which the Agency and its staff are working may be specified.
Year 2013 Status of corrective actions (completed/current/current/n.d.) In progress (not subject to review by the Agency)
DE C 434/86 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.12.8.
The Agency is currently thoroughly restructuring so that it can fulfil its new tasks.
The objective of the Action Plan and the Action Plan agreed with the Internal Audit Service shall be to establish an appropriate division of responsibilities between the Internal Audit Officers.
3.1.2.9.
As the Court concluded, the agreement was applied under the provisions of the DIGIT DI07360 Framework Agreement.
Any further efforts to promote the economic development of the budget should be notified to the Director of the Agreement, i.e. DG DIGIT.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/87 3.13.
INTRODUCTION 3.13.1.
The europ of physical securities and market surveillance (hereinafter referred to as ădie Beh Europarde ă and ăESMA market participation in Paris) was established by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (112). 3.13.2 (OJ L 313, 313.2.2013, p. 1).
In order to improve the functioning of the EU single financial market, the high, effective and coherent nature of regulation and supervision, to ensure the integration and stability of financial systems and to strengthen international supervisory coordination to ensure the stability and efficiency of the financial system should be ensured.
3.13.3.
The main figures for Beh Werde (113) are shown in the table.
Table Key figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 42 personal data at 31 December (2) 226 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
(e) the financial statements of the company for the financial year 2017 for the financial year 2017 (including financial statements) for the financial year 2017 (including financial statements) for the financial year (including financial statements) for the financial year (including financial year (including financial statements) for the financial year (including financial statements) for the financial year (including financial statements) for the financial year (115) for the financial year (including financial year) for the financial year (including financial statements) for the financial year 2017 (d) the financial statements of the company for the financial year 2017 (including financial statements) for the financial year (including financial statements) for the financial year (115) for the financial year (including financial year) for the financial year 2017;
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84.
(113) For more information on Beh irberbe's achievements and achievements, see www.esma.europa.eu at www.esma.europa.eu.
(114) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial results, the financial statements, the table of net changes, and a summary of the recognised accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(115) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure and expenditure as well as extortion.
DE C 434/88 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.13.6. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.13.7.
Note 3.13.8.
The Court notes that the United Kingdom informed the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to leave the European Union.
There are currently negotiations on an agreement on details on resignations.
The staff budget is financed at 27 % by the European Union, 42% by direct funds from EU Member States, and 29% by funds from supervised institutions (rating agencies and trade repositories). 2% comes from other sources.
The UK's speech may have had an impact on the experience of those who are currently established in the UK, as the main supervised entities are currently established in the UK.
3.13.9.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET'S HOLDING AND THE STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE 3.13.10... OF THE PARTICIPANT'S WORKING STUDIES.. they publish notices on their website and on social media... but not always on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (ESSO).
AUDIT REPORTS AND AUDIT REPORTS 3.13.11.
In 2017, the Internal Audit Office (IAS) submitted an evaluation report on the peer review procedures applied by ESMA with regard to the... to the national supervisory authorities (116).
As a result, Beh Walde developed an action plan.
3.13.1.12.
The external evaluation of the three European Supervisory Authorities (117) was carried out in 2017 on behalf of the Commission (118).
(116) The farm did not carry out this work.
(117) ESMA, the European Banking Authority and the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority.
(118) The Court has not examined this assessment.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/89 ANSWERS BEH RDE 3.13.7.
ESMA recognises this problem and will continue to monitor progress in the Brexit negotiations.
EPSO has decided to publish notices of employment in ESMA on its website only in the case of a notice of employment in 24 languages.
In 2017, the cost of translation by ESMA (f.nf. of the 16 invitation to tender) was EUR 32 431.
ESMA considers that the cost of translating all the calls for tender in 23 languages is not justified for budgetary policy reasons and has therefore decided to use other media where most EU agencies publish their employment notices.
DE C 434/90 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.14.
EUROPE SECURITY AGENTURE AND HEALTH PROTECTION INTRODUCTION (EU-OSHA) 3.14.1
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as "the "A Agency for ădie', including ăEU-OSHA in Bilbao'), established in Bilbao, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 (119).
The Agency's tasks include the collection and dissemination of information on national and Union priorities in the field of health and safety at work, the promotion of national and Union bodies responsible for policy-making and implementation, and the dissemination of information on preparatory measures.
3.14.2.
The main figures for the Agency are shown in the table (120).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 15 Total staff on 31 December (1) 64 1. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
All relevant support to the Court on the assurance of the Court of Justice on the non-predictability of the Court of Justice in 2016 1765 of the Court of Justice of the European Communities' requests 3.14.3. of the Court of Justice in respect of non-predictability in 2016 1765.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (121) and the implementation report (122) f (122) of the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts referred to in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in accordance with the financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, report the Agency's financial results and the Agency's cash flows and net financial developments for the public sector accordingly.
(119) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 29.
Regulation as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 (OJ L 216, 20.8.1994, p. 1).
(120) For more information on the Agency's competences and competences, see the Agency's website www.osha.europa.eu.
(121) The annual accounts shall include the financial statements, the accounts, the financial statements, the financial statements, the table of net changes, as well as a summary of the relevant reasons for the financial statements and other financial statements.
(122) The reports on the importance of the implementation of the budget shall include surveys of revenue and expenditure (s) and expenditure (s) and expenditure (s) shall be (s) and (s) shall be (s) and (s) and (s) that shall be (s) that (s) and (s) of (s) and (s) of (s) and (s) shall) that (s) that (s) that (s) and (s) or (s) or (s) or (s) or (s) or (s) of (s) and (s) shall) that (s) shall be (s) or (s) or (s) that ( (s) shall) or ( ( (s) and (s)) shall) or ( (s) or ( (s)) that) and ( (s))) or ( (s) of) that or ( ()) or ( ( ( ( ())))) and ( ( ())) or ( ())))) or ( ( ( ())))) or ( ( ())))))) or ( ( ( ( ())))) that))) that shall) or ( ( ( ( ()))) shall) that) and ( ( ( ( ( ( ( that))) shall)))))) shall)))))) that)) of that or shall) shall) and) or or) or or ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( shall) shall) and shall) on) be or) or) and) shall) or)) or)) shall) that) shall) or) that and ( or) and ( ( ( ( ( be)) shall)) that) ensure))) ensure)) shall) and ( be)) or ( ( ( ( ( ( ( and ( shall)) ensure) ensure) and ( be) ensure) ensure) and ( be ( ( ( ( be or) ensure) or)) ensure) ensure) and ( on) that) ensure) be) and be shall) ensure) that shall) that) and ( and ( shall) that that or) that that) and shall) or) ensure) that shall) and ( ( ( be and ( ( be) that shall) ensure ensure) that or) that
In the light of the evaluation carried out by us during the financial year ending 31 December 2017, the revenue underlying the annual accounts shall be reasonable and correct in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.14.6.
3.14.7.
COMMENTS ON THE SUPPLY TO THE ACCOUNTS 3.14.8.
The Director of the Agency's accounting department shall be the Head of the Resource and Services Centre.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.14.9
The appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) amounted to 40% for each title or a total of EUR 3,5 million, contrary to the principle of budgetary fairness.
There is no evidence that the appropriations that have been carried over are related to the expenditure that was planned during the budgetary procedure.
For example, in December 2017, the Agency ordered EUR 220 000 in 2017.
The Agency should adopt a common approach to electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (123) (124). Since the same is required in the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT table covering all stages of the public procurement procedure. (2012) It initiated electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Agency did not have any of these tools.
3.14.11.
Unlike most other agencies, the Agency has not carried out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, organisation and organisation and its accounts.
The annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(123) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management.
(124) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government.
Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 21 December 2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1).
These measures are essentially related to IT services which have not yet been fully implemented or have not yet been cleared at the end of the year.
The appropriations entered in Title III for the following financial year amounted to EUR 3370616 and 43% (2015: EUR 3383052 and 41%).
These funds mainly cover research projects and research projects lasting over a year.
In 2014, the Agency concluded a framework agreement on IT services in the period 2014-2017 in a total amount of EUR 1,1 million.
Although individual implementation forms for the Framework Agreement signed in 2016 clearly define the results of the projects, on the basis of the time and effort on the basis of the consultants, obligations have been imposed on them, in which the price is not fixed and directly linked to the results, but results from the number of working days worked.
In addition, in 2016 around 50% of IT services were provided outside the remit of the Agency, allowing the Agency to monitor to a limited extent the effective implementation of the IT programme.
In 2016, payments made after payment under this Framework Agreement amounted to around EUR 0,4 million.
The Agency's implementing regulation does not require an assessment of its external competence.
Commission proposal for a new Regulation on a Regulation on a Regulation on a Regulation on a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 335, 30.12.2006, p. 1).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/93 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.14.8.
Within the organizational scope, the accounting officer in the organizational program is assigned to the Resource and Services Centre, thus taking its power in the services of financial employees assigned to the Resources and Services Centre.
However, in order to guarantee independence, the Director (not the Director of the Resources and Services Centre) is directly subject to the Director (not the Director of the Services and Resources Centre) (not the Director of the Services and Services Centre).
3.149.
Based on Chapter III of Title III, Chapter III refers mainly to major research projects which last more than one year and are linked to the annual work programme for 2017.
The case provided for in Title II relates primarily to services for which there are two calendar years.
As regards the amount of EUR 0.2 million, it should be noted that from 2014 the amount of Title II appropriations, as well as the amount of EUR 1.4 million that the Agency could save EUR 0.6 million per year, has decreased to EUR 1.4 million.
In 2017, the amending budget in Title II continued to be reduced by EUR 60 000 in the form of an amending budget adopted in June, resulting in the contribution of local actors to the EU's infrastructure budget under EU-OSHA.
Most IT procurement in 2018 and 2017 has been planned (documented in the draft budget 2017 and the next stages of budget planning), but in 2017, when the funds were earmarked, the funds for this purpose (10 000 euro) were earmarked for this purpose.
From the 2019 budget, the programming document will document.
The Governing Board, Parliament and the Council have been informed of the outcome between titles (in accordance with the provisions of the framework Financial Regulation).
3.14.10.
Since the end of 2016, the Agency shall provide electronic access to its website for all pending procedures (ex ante notices of small to medium values and contract notices), also providing special e-mail addresses for the contract notice.
In 2018 (target: October) the Agency will organise an electronic invitation to tender procedure until the submission of tenders.
The Agency has now carried out an analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, organisation and organisation, as well as organisation and invoicing.
DE C 434/94 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.15.
EUROPEANWAYS OF IMPROVING LIFE AND WORKING CONDITIONS (EUROFOUND) INTRODUCTION 3.15.1.
The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (hereinafter referred to as the " ădie Foundation "), including ăEurofound in Dublin, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (125).
The objective of the Foundation is to contribute to the creation and creation of better living and working conditions in the Union by promoting and disseminating knowledge in this field.
3.15.2.
The table presents the main figures for the Foundation (126).
Table Main figures for the Foundation for 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 Posts at 31 December (1) 100 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Foundation.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL TO THE FUTURE OF THE COURT ON THE
(a) the Foundation's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (127) and the budget implementation report (128) f a year, covering the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts.
We estimate that the Foundation's financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Foundation's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial statements for 31 December 2017.
OJ L 139, 30.5.1975, p. 1.
(126) For more information on the powers and competences of the Foundation, see the website of the Foundation www.eurofound.europa.eu.
(127) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial balance sheet, financial balance sheet, balance sheet of cash flows, net change table, and a summary to be considered as accounting bases, as well as any other balance sheet.
(128) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, including the distortion of revenue and expenditure.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/95 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts C 43 of the annual accounts The statutory decisions and the regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts C 434/95 3.15.5. According to our assessment, the revenue financed by the accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
As regards payments, the decision on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.15.6.
3.15.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ADAPTATION OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.15.8.
In the course of the work carried out within these EU agencies, the Court examined the accounts, including the hierarchical position and non-compliance of these agencies.
At the Foundation, the Head of Administration and Finance is the Head of Accounting Department.
The Agency should lay down uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties participating in procurement procedures (129) due to the fact that EU institutions are also located under the same rule, the Commission should now develop a comprehensive IT set covering all stages of procurement procedures, launching tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents in procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
In accordance with the information provided by the Commission, the Foundation has allocated, by the end of 2017, detailed procedures for e-invoicing and e-invoicing for the submission of tenders.
CONVINCING THE CONVINCING OF THE CONVINCEMENTS FROM THE LAST YEARS 3.15.10. The Annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(129) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 of the eGovernment.
(130) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) electronic administration (ăe-Government)
C 434/96 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Supplementing the Court's observations of previous years In the Court's report on the annual accounts for 2014, the Court noted that between 2005 and 2014 the European Union's employees were too understated compared to the EU's... new Staff Regulations in 2005.
Although too low energy consumption varies by volume (2014: non-compliance with minimum guaranteed production volumes; 2015: application of false multiplication factors depending on production), the Court again found too low consumption (EUR 43350), as well as several minimum (EUR 168930) for 30 active workers and workers.
Eurofound has corrected all over-use but will not require an overload (in accordance with Article 85 of the current Staff Regulations).
The Foundation should re-examine the errors which may have arisen as a result of the 2005 transition to the Staff Regulations and carry out a comprehensive assessment of its remuneration.
In its evaluation report of December 2016, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the need to improve project management, in particular as regards management, monitoring and reporting.
The Foundation and IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan.
In 2015-2015, the 2015 appropriations ratio amounted to EUR 2.8 million and EUR 43 million respectively (EUR 2.1 million and 31% respectively), and then increased in Title III (operational expenditure), which was mainly translated into annual projects (research and pilot projects).
The Foundation may contribute more to achieving the objectives of access to separate budgetary resources to achieve the objective of achieving the objectives of multi-annual implementation and the unavoidable inconveniences between contracts, supplies and payments.
The Regulation on the Foundation's Financial Regulation does not require external assessments of the Foundation's competences.
The Commission's proposal for a new Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the new Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Joint Undertaking provides for an evaluation to be carried out every five years.
Year 2016 2016 2016 Year of correction (completed/completed/completed/unpermanent/n.d.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/97 ANSWERS OF FUNCTIONING 3.15.8.
The Administrative Board is satisfied with the current independence of the accounting officer, in particular with regard to its existing powers to report directly to the Presidency in accordance with Article 6.1 of the Accounting Charter, and with regard to the participation of the Board of Directors in the appointment procedure.
However, the new regulation on labour rights, which is currently being discussed between the institutions, is likely to assign the role of the Board of Directors rather than the Director.
This will allow Eurofound to assess in future the issue of greater inadequacy of the account.
3.15.9.
However, two pilot agencies had serious problems with the software.
Moreover, electronic procurement software is currently only available for public procurement contracts (but not for contracts for negotiated contracts) from which Eurofound has very little per year.
Eurofound will monitor developments and will be ready to invest in electronic public procurement as soon as it is satisfied with their stability and functions.
DE C 434/98 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.16.
AGENCY F Real Estate (GSA) INTRODUCTION 3.16.1.
(hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency')') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency')') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the ") "the Agency') " (hereinafter referred to as ") ") ")'(hereinafter referred to as ") ')'(hereinafter "the Agency') ') " (hereinafter ")'(hereinafter "the Agency' (hereinafter "the Agency'.' (hereinafter referred to "the Agency' (hereinafter referred to "the "the "the "the Agency')'' ') ')'"the "the ")'"the ")'(the "the "the ") ')'(the Agency "the Agency' (hereinafter ") "the Agency "the Agency' "the Agency')'"the Agency' (the "the "the "the "the ")'"the "the "the "the ")'")'")'' "the "the ") "the "the "the "the "the "the "the "the ")'"the "the "the "the ")'") ') '. "the "the ")'''"the " (the "the "the " (the "the "the ")'")'")'") ')'"the "the "the "the "the "the "the ")'") ")'")'")'")'(the ")'"
On 1 January 2007, the European GNSS Authority, established by Council Regulation (EC) No 3121/2004, officially the European GNSS Supervisory Authority, performed all the functions it performed under Regulation (EU) No 912/2010, and under Regulation (EU) No 912/2010, the Agency continues to perform that function as the European GNSS Agency.
The Commission also commissioned the Agency to operate the European satellite navigation system (EGNOS) by means of an agreement on the operation of the satellite navigation system (EGNOS).
3.16.2.
The main figures for the Agency (135) are presented in the table.
Table Key figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) (1) Total number of employees at 31 December (3) 2017 704 (2) 166 2016 626 160 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The Agency has received EUR 676 million under participation agreements with the Commission.
3. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff, contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
The European Parliament and the Council have informed the European Parliament and the Council and the Council that the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament have informed the European Parliament and the Council that, the European Parliament and the Council have informed the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional and Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the ERDF), the ERDF (ERDF)
(131) Council Decision 2010/803/EU of 20 December 2010 on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Community, of the Agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 20, 27.1.2010, p. 1). (a) Council Decision 2010/803/EU of 20 December 2010 on the conclusion, on behalf of the Community, of the Agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 3, 27.1.2010, p. 1).
OJ L 276, 20.10.2010, p. 11.
OJ L 246, 20.7.2004, p. 1.
OJ L 196, aged L aged 24.7.2008, p. 1.
(135) For more information on the Agency's tasks and tasks, visit the Agency's website www.gsa.europa.eu.
(136) The financial statements include financial, financial, capital flow accounts, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the allegedly justified accounting bases, as well as other net value adjustments.
(137) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as of forestation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/99 C 434/99 C 434/99 Reliability of accounts Preliminary ruling in case PL C-43 on the compatibility of accounts 3.16.4.
Payments Opinion on the compatibility and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.16.6.
Emphasising the circumstances 3.16.7.
On 15 December 2016, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/1446 [2] imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain imports of the product concerned originating in the People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China ("the People's Republic of China') originating in the People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China ("the People's Republic of China') originating in the People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China ("the People's Republic's Republic of China') originating in the People's Republic of China ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic's Republic of China's Republic of China ("the People's Republic of China').
The contract was concluded following a public procurement procedure.
One of the tenderers concerned brought proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the Agency in order to challenge the outcome of the procurement procedure.
The ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union will rule on legal and legal matters relating to the award of public contracts relating to the framework agreement and any individual and possible payments relating thereto.
In 2017, the Agency recorded and updated and updated the situation and concluded that EUR 49 million had been paid in 2017 (7% of the 2017 budget, including the amounts received under framework agreements).
Note 3.16.8.
Negotiations are underway on the agreement on the details of the statement.
The Agency shall operate the Galileo Security Headquarters (GSMC) and Galileo Ground Stations in the United Kingdom.
In its financial statements in Chapter ăEkty after the end of the reporting period in Chapter In its financial statements, the Agency shall indicate the Commission's decision adopted on 24 January 2018 on the transfer of the second point of the Galileo Security Headquarters (GSMC) from the United Kingdom to Spain.
3.16.9.
COMMENTS ON THE ADAPTATION OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.16.10.
The Agency's seat has been moved and has been re-established in 2013.
In 2014, the Agency... amended its financial rules and delegated its accounting function to the Commission's official in 2015.
Although these events led to significant changes in the Agency's procedures, the invoicing system has not been re-approved since 2012 (138).
(138) See also the note set out in the 2015 follow-up table.
DE C 434/100 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY AND THEIR EFFECTIVENESS 3.16.11.The Agency publishes notices of employment on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.16.12.
In order to ensure consistency in the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (139) (140).
The Commission has launched electronic invoicing tools (2010), an electronic invitation to tender online in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and an electronic tender submission (2015).
At the end of 2017, the Agency did not use any of these tools.
External evaluation report 3.16.13.
The mid-term evaluation of the Galileo (141) and EGNOS programmes and the Agency's functioning in 2014-2016 (142) was carried out on behalf of the Commission in 2017.
The annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of the previous years.
(139) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government.).
(140) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the electronic administration (ăe-Government (ăe-Government.)
(141) Galileo is the European Union's global satellite navigation system (GNSS).
(142) The Court has not carried out this assessment not not this assessment.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/101 PL ANNEX Further action in relation to the Court's observations of previous years No fixed assets are insured (net book value: EUR 1,0 million).
The registry systems were recently approved in 2012.
Systems have not been adopted due to the expected significant changes in procedures and the flow of information after the Agency's removal.
The new accountant is planning a state-of-the-art validation for 2020.
The Agency has developed business continuity plans in France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.
However, there is no contingency plan for the seat in Prague and for the entire agency.
The Court's 2015 work plan was only adopted in March 2015 and its multiannual work programme for 2014-2020 has not yet been adopted.
The adoption of key project documents entails a risk for the Agency to achieve its objective.
In 2015, the Agency recorded high staff fluctuations, employing 14 people and 26 new staff.
In its November 2016 progress report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that no risk assessment was carried out throughout the Agency in 2016 and that no significant risk was included in the Agency's documents or risk assessment reports.
In addition, the IAS concluded that the terminology used for the different elements of the performance measurement system is not consistent, which hinders the monitoring of the results.
The Agency and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan for the financial year... EUR 2.8 million and 46% (EUR 2.5 million and 42% respectively in 2015) in Title II (administrative expenditure) for the financial year.
DE C 434/102 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.16.10.
The GSA agrees with the Court's observations.
In 2015, the GSA sent the European Commission its financial statements so that the Commission (under the Directorate-General for Budget) provided all services, including the validation of local systems, required under the framework Financial Regulation, in accordance with Article 50 of the Agency.
The concept of validation is currently being discussed and planned within the services of the Directorate-General for Budget.
3.16.11.
Publication of job notices on the EPSO platform requires translation into all the official languages of the EU, while English is the only working language of the agency, and publication of free posts in the English language is perceived as preliminary, to ensure that our working language is understood.
Furthermore, the translation of notices into all EU official languages would entail an additional financial and time burden for the Agency, so that it does not benefit from previous EU meetings as well. Instead, the GSA intends to publish all the notices on the Agency's portal, which the Agency considers to be equivalent to EPSO and which provides the EU with sufficient transparency.
In addition, the Agency shall publish its employment notices also on specialised space-related websites.
Electronic communications in TED (office f for publication for publication) in TED (office f for publication) in TED (office for publication) for the publication of contract notices, contract notices, correction notices, change notices, etc. are currently used in the GSA, whenever indicated in Article 264 of the implementing rules.
The Agency also intends to use the TED e-Tendering system to draw up and publish calls for tenders.
In this context, GSA is currently working with the Publications Office to register and create a system account.
With regard to high value tenders (below the thresholds laid down in Article 118 (1) FR), the GSA is currently taking the necessary administrative steps to use the ăe-Submission module. To ensure that the ăe-PrIOR IT system developed by the European Commission (at the disposal of DG DIGIT) meets the requirements of the HO and AB.
It should be noted that the ăe-Submissione module, currently the sole contractor of open procedures, cannot therefore benefit exclusively from these procedures by the GSA.
In this context, the GSA has already organised the first coordination meeting with DG DIGIT and aims to conclude and sign the agreement with DG DIGIT to establish and start the implementation of the aid framework for ăe.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/103 Agencies financed under sub-heading 2 of the multiannual financial framework for sustainable growth: natural resources 3.17.
European Environment Agency (EEA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1.
The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) with its seat in Copenhagen) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 810/90[[[].
The Agency's task is to set up an environmental observation network to provide information to the Commission, the European Parliament, the Member States and, more generally, to the public on the state of the environment.
3.17.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (144).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 70 total staff on 31 December (1) 212 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff, contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency; figures given include both the main budget and other measures.
WORDS not provided by Tools for 2016 50,5.5.5.5 INFLUENCE INFLUENCE 3.17.3.
We took note of (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (145) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (146) for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017; and (b) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (145) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (146) (f) for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017; and (b) the annual accounts for the implementation of the budget and the financial statements.
It follows from our assessment that the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's accounts for the financial year 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's financial results for the financial year 2017, the Agency's results and cash flows and net changes for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting principles adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which shall be based on recognised international accounting bases.
OJ L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 1.
(144) More information on the Agency's achievements and achievements can be found on the Agency's website www.eea.europa.eu.
(145) The financial statements shall include financial, financial, financial, financial, financial, net change balance sheets, as well as a summary of the balance sheet financial bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(146) The movement reports of the table shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, including expenditure, as well as zigzags.
EN C 434/104 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the annual accounts The revenue on which the annual accounts of C 434/104 are based on the legality and regularity of the accounts The revenue on which the annual accounts are based 30.17.5. According to our assessment, the revenue on which the annual accounts are based is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.17.6.
3.17.7.
COMMENTS ON THE AUTHORISATION OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.17.8.
As part of the implementation of this initiative by the EU agencies, the Court analysed the invoicing system, including the hierarchical position and the conflict of their accounting and accounting and accounting and accounting accounts.
The Head of the Agency's accounting department shall be the Head of the Administration department.
Comments on the Budget HOLDER and on the HOLDING HOLDING HOLDER 3.17.9. the EEA concluded that one of the European thematic centres (European thematic centres, the EEA and the Mediterranean) implemented the 2016 Action Plan with considerable fluctuations.
Therefore, the Commission did not recognise certain results and rejected part of the costs incurred by the SATs.
Correction of the amount of the final payment l In this connection, it also notes that the audit of the results is further improved for SEP grants for financial controls and SEP results.
3.17.10.
Several procurement procedures identified several factors.
In response to a number of calls for tenders, the Agency applied technical specifications which did not contain minimum requirements for economic and financial efficiency in relation to the selection criteria.
Therefore, based on these criteria, contrary to its objectives, whether the tenderer in question, because of the conditions necessary for the performance of the contract, because of its performance, these criteria do not mean that the tenderer indicates the conditions required for the performance of the order, in which do you mean???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
3.17.11.
Price competition for certain high value tenders was based on the profiles offered for certain days rather than on the expected time for the implementation of the tasks.
Framework agreements have been concluded with only one tenderer, although a renewed call for competition between different tenderers was intended to achieve better results for individual public contracts.
3.17.12.
Within the framework of the framework Financial Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties participating in procurement procedures (147) (148). Since this requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing comprehensive rules for computer science covering all stages of public procurement, including tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication in the Official Journal of the European Union (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
3.17.13.
In particular, the decisions taken in the minutes of the selection panel were not sufficiently taken into account.
The criteria used at the various stages of the selection procedure and the role of the various members of the selection panel should be further defined in order to improve transparency and equal treatment of candidates.
(147) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government to.).
(148) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) electronic administration.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/105 317.14.
The Agency publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).For the sake of transparency and publication, the main reason for the Agency's attention is the high translation costs of EPSO and the translation into all EU official languages must be made.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.17.15
In accordance with Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 (EU) No 1303/2013, measures for the implementation of this Decision should comply with Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and with Article 13 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, in accordance with Article 13 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and Article 13 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, and with Article 13 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and Article 13 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013.
Although these commitments have been the subject of a special report signed by the Director of the Agency, this approach is contrary to the implementing rules of the Financial Regulation.
In view of the above, the Commission considers that, in view of the need to ensure that the Court's observations of the previous years, which have been taken into account, no corrective action is necessary, the Commission considers that further corrective action is necessary, which is necessary in view of the fact that the corrective action taken by the Court in the light of the above observations of the previous years is not fully taken in view of the Court's observations.
The Commission adopted Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1232/2014 (OJ L 123, 24.5.2014, p. 1). OJ C 434/106 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX (OJ C 434/106, 30.11.2018, p. 1), where the Commission updated its approach to safety in 2016, but many other internal procedures are obsolete.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) carried out a viability assessment in order to prepare an Environmental Status Report (SOER) in 2015.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor.
In 2016, the Agency used this framework agreement to acquire a software licence of a total value of EUR 442 754.
The order was intended to renew the software license provided by an exclusive Scandinavian scissor (112 248 euro).
In 2016, the change was not completed/not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ not completed/ r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/107 THE AGENCY'S REPLY ON THE AGENCY THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ACCOUNTING 3.17.8. The Agency has presented the Court's opinion with the bookmaker and is convinced that it is because it is a high-wage employee (AD 12) and has direct access to the Management Board.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYMENT 3.17.9.
The Agency confirms that the Court, as regards both financial and operational controls, supports further improvement of its management.
In order to prevent the repetition in 2017 of the problem in the SIE at sea, at sea and at sea, the tasks in question have been removed from the annual action plan and communicated to the Agency.
The Agency shall endeavour to maintain the current level of control of the grants carried out under the STS.
The Agency provides that during 2017, it has amended the requirements for the assessment of the financial results of the tenderers and that it currently encourages tenderers to provide information on the financial indicators (Liquidit, Solvenz and Rentabilit of financial information) and that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 147 (1) (a) of the Rules of Use (AB), minimum turnover is required which must correspond to at least double the value of the value during the year in which the contract was awarded.
The Agency would like to reiterate that the decision to offer a framework for individual economic operators has been made consciously and consciously in the light of the fact that competition is limited to the relevant points and the nature and complex of the services provided.
When granting individual grants under the legal framework, the Agency shall take into account not only the dates specified in the contract, but also the number of days which require how the implementation of the tasks will be necessary to calculate how the budget for the purpose will be allocated to the tasks in question.
Only then will negotiations begin with the contractor on the details of his offer, paying particular attention to the achievement of the best discount on the price.
In the event of the reopening of the tender procedure, the Agency shall not have the power to negotiate further tenders submitted by tenderers.
In accordance with the decision of the Governing Board of 9 November 2015 to introduce the electronic procurement procedure Regulation in the EEA, in 2014 it introduced certain electronic invoicing procedures and in 2014 it included all procedures, with the exception of the electronic invitation to tender referred to in paragraph 1 of January 2015 for all contracts of a general nature.
The first invitation to tender was launched on 18 June 2018 (EEA/COM/18/002 (D.E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A./E.A.A./E.A.A./E.A.A./E.A.A./E.A./E.A.A./E.A.A.A.E.
The Agency takes note of the Court's observations and takes note of the fact that it is currently adapting its selection and recruitment procedures on the following issues: (a) the execution of the various stages (selection, selection, application and written selection procedures) is justified in the relevant documents (not only the date).
317.1.4.
EPSO rejected the publication to the Agency together with the conclusion that the pre-translation requirement for all vacancies in all official languages is not met.
The Agency shall not use the resources or resources earmarked for the implementation of the EPSO proposal.
In this case, not only translation of all offers of employment, but also translation of applications in all official languages, which entails unacceptable high additional costs.
Therefore, as with most other EU agencies, the Agency, as with most EU agencies, has proven itself on the basis of an alternative to the EPSO website and since May 2018 has used the website, which for the same purpose has been used... on the basis of the network of EU agencies... to create and maintain posts... ăAgences Job Advertising Board... ăAgences Job Advertising Board.
In addition, LinkedIn uses its own website and Facebook sites to ensure the best dissemination.
DE C 434/108 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.17.15
Prior to the conclusion of the Copernicus participation agreement with DG GROW, the Agency noted that the pre-financing conditions are not in line with the Financial Regulation (Article 7 AR of the 2014 Financial Regulation).
DG GROW has proved to be understandable in her reply, but DG BUDG, who is responsible for preparing the standard form, has rejected the amendment of the contract agreement.
Following the start of the liquidation agreement, the Agency continued to highlight the problems and stressed that it was regularly obliged to apply the exceptions to continue its operational activities, which eventually led DG GROW to change the conditions for pre-financing the liquidation agreement in August 2017 and in November 2017 to make additional pre-financing payments.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/109 3.18.
FISHING SUPERVISION AGENCY (EFCA) INTRODUCTION 3.18.1.
The European Fisheries Control Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Vigo (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 768/2007[*].
3.18.2.
The main figures for the Agency are shown in the table (150).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 17 staff at 31 December (2) 72 (1) Budget data are based on payment appropriations. (2) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
B.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (151) and the budget implementation report (152), the analysis of the financial year ending on 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts.§ Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 128, 21.5.2005, p. 1.
(150) For more information on the Agency's competences, see www.efca.europa.eu.
(151) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, the financial statements, the accounts, the table of net changes, as well as a summary of the depreciation bases as well as other depreciations.
The European reports provide an overview of revenue and expenditure which may be made available to Member States of the European Parliament and to the Council to Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions for.
DE C 434/110 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legislation and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts C 434/110 The judgment on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 30.18.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.18.6.
3.18.7.
Internal Audit Service reports and external evaluation reports 3.18.8.
In November 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report to the Agency on the project supervision and management (November 2017) on project management (November 2017) (November 2017).
The Agency and the IAS have agreed a resolution resolution resolution resolution and resolution resolution resolution plan for resolution and resolution resolution for resolution and resolution for resolution and resolution for resolution resolution for resolution and resolution for resolution resolution for resolution resolution and resolution resolution for resolution resolution for resolution resolution for resolution and resolution for resolution resolution for resolution resolution for resolution and resolution resolution for resolution resolution for resolution resolution.
3.18.9.
An external evaluation of the Agency (154) was carried out on behalf of the Governing Board in 2017.
The Agency has drawn up a plan for the implementation of these recommendations.
(153) The farm did not therefore carry out this work.
(154) The Court has not examined this assessment.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/111 REPLY OF THE AGENCIES The Agency shall take note of the Court's report.
DE C 434/112 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under sub-heading 3 of the multiannual financial framework
The European Union Agency for Enforcement Training and Training ("the Agency') established in Budapest ("the Agency') was established by Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council (155), which repeals and replaces Council Decision 2005/681/JHA (156).
3.192.
The table below shows the main figures for the Agency (157).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 9 Total staff on 31 December (1) 53 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
For each recapitalisation until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2015 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016 until 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016, 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016,
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the Agency's annual accounts (158) and the budget implementation report (159) f, the Agency's accounts, which ended on 31 December 2017, and (b) the Agency's annual accounts, in which the Agency's annual accounts (158) and budget implementation reports (159) f.r., and, where appropriate, the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts on 31 December 2017, and the implementation of the budget in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall present the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2005 for 31 December 2005 for 31 December 2005 for 31 December for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December for the year 31 December for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year 31 December 2005 for the year for the year of 31 December 2005 for the year for the year of 31 December 2005 for the year for the year of 31 December 2005 for the year of 31 December 2005 for the year for the year for the year of 31 December 2005 for the year for the year of 31 December 2005 for the year of the year for the year for the year of 31 December 2005 for the year for the year for the year for the year of the year of 31 December 2005 for the year of 31 December of the year for the year of 31 December 2005 for the year for the year for the year of the year for the year of the year for the year for the year of the year of the year of the year for the year for the year of the year for the year of the year of 31 December 2005 for the year for the year for the year for the year for the year for the year for the year for the year for the year for the year for the year for the year of the year of the year for the year of the year for the year for the year for the year of the year of the year for the year of the year of the year of the year of the year for the year for the year of the year
Council Decision 2005/681/JHA of 28 October 2004 on the conclusion of the Protocol on financial and technical cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova (OJ L 294, 31.12.2004, p. 1).
OJ L 256, 1.10.2005, p. 63.
(157) For more information on the Agency's competences and competences, see the Agency's website www.cepol.europa.eu.
(158) The annual accounts shall include the financial reviews, the financial statements, the financial statements, the table of net changes, as well as the financial statements as well as the net accounts in question, as well as the financial statements in question.
(159) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure collectively and exfoliation.
In accordance with our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial statements of 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.19.6.
3.19.7.
COMMENTS ON THE IMPACT OF ACCOUNTS 3.19.8.
The Agency shall transmit its accounting task to the Commission in 2014.
Furthermore, the Agency's seat was relocated in 2014 and was re-established in 2016.
Although these events led to changes in the Agency's procedures, the clearing system has not been re-approved since 2013.
In December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement with a contractor worth EUR 1.6 million and a period of four years for the provision of temporary staff.
The only criterion of competition in the award procedure was the price.
A framework agreement with several companies selected on the basis of price and quality criteria on the basis of quality criteria would be better in terms of the timely provision of quality services.
3.19.10.
On 29 March 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013.
3.19.11.
The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.19.12.
In the framework of the framework Financial Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties participating in procurement procedures (160) (161) because the same is required of EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive set of IT data covering all stages of public procurement procedures.The Commission has launched electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) of documents in procurement notices and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL PUBLIC SERVICE 3.19.13.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report assessing the needs, planning and budgeting of training activities at the Agency (162).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where an improvement is likely to occur.
(160) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 (electronic administration)
(161) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) Electronic management (ăe-Government.)
(162) The Court has not analysed the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/114 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL ANNEX Follow-up of the Court's observations of previous years Therefore, EUR 140 055 and 30% respectively (EUR 212 456 and 49% respectively in 2015), Title II (support expenditure) to which commitments have been made for the following financial year, Title 4 (support expenditure).
The change in the number of employees is high, which is likely to affect the maintenance of the Agency's business activities and the sustainability of the Agency, which may affect the scope of its work programme's tasks.
In 2013-2016, the number of employees from the host country increased from one to 16, representing 31% of the total number of employees in 2016.
The number of notifications from other Member States is the same as the adjustment rate (69%) for the remuneration of the host Member State and competition with another EU institution in Budapest, which is also located in Budapest.
Year 2016 Year 2016 Date of adjustment (completed/completed/expired/n.d.) n.a. During (n.d.) (n.a./n.d.)
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/115 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.19.8.
CEPOL agrees with the Court's observations.
In 2014, CEPOL submitted to the European Commission the financial statements so that the Commission's accounting officer (in the framework of the Directorate-General for Budget) (in the Directorate-General for Budget) provided services, including the validation of local systems, including the systems required under Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to the Agency.
A validation approach is currently underway and is planned under the services of the Directorate-General for Budget.
3.19.9.
The Agency took note of the Court's observations but does not share their views.
The selection criteria are set out in the technical specifications and tenderers who have not been able to meet the criteria have been excluded.
The decision to grant a single framework agreement is based on the experience and specific characteristics of the national labour market.
The Agency took note of the Court's observations.
Brexit was discussed during the meetings of the Procurement Group. Discussions in the NAPO (the Agency's Public Procurement Network) and in the IALN (the Agency's legal network) and in the Commission's communications were closely monitored.
The risks to CEPOL were considered to be low, but were not officially documented.
The costs related to the translation of notices into all the EU's official languages, as required for publication on the EPSO website, are considered to be too high, taking into account the expected benefits.
As of 2018, CEPOL has also published all vacancies in the labour agencies that have been developed by the network of EU agencies.
The Agency took note of the Court's observations and took note of the progress made in the implementation of the electronic submission of tenders in cooperation with DG DIGIT.
3.19.13.
The Agency recognises that progress has been made in the implementation of the Action Plan, of which two of the four recommendations have been assessed by the internal audit services as being implemented.
DE C 434/116 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.
INTRODUCTION 3.20.1
The European Asylum Support Centre (hereinafter referred to as "Adas B in B adapt to the "Adas in Valletta' in ăEASO) was established by Regulation (EU) No 439/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (163) to promote practical cooperation in the field of asylum and to support Member States in the implementation of their European and international commitments to the protection of vulnerable persons.
Since 2015, R.R. has been assisting Greece and Italy in the context of the migration crisis.
3.20.2.
Table 1 presents the main figures for B Innerero (164).
Table 1 Basic budget figures BAs regards the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 79 at 31 December (2) 200 (1) The budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data transmitted by B.ro.. by the European Parliament and the Council..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
We have drawn up the following reports: (a) the financial statements B: the annual accounts B: the annual accounts B:[165] and the reports on the implementation of the budget: (166) f implementation of the budget: the financial year ending 31 December 2017; (b) the annual accounts We have feared the rights and correct reports on implementation of the budget: Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the B financial statement paid out on 31 December 2017 represents, in all material respects, the convergence with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer on 31 December 2017, on the basis of internationally recognised financial and financial bases..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
OJ L 132, 29.5.2010, p. 11.
(164) More information on B competences and capabilities More information on B and B is not available at www.easo.europa.eu.
(165) The financial statements include financial, financial, financial, cash flow, net change table, as well as a summary of the legitimate accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(166) The budget implementation reports shall include estimates of revenue and expenditure as well as reports of implementation of the budget.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/117 The rule of law and order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts of the European Union C 434/117 It follows from our assessment that the revenue underlying the annual accounts of the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects. It follows from our assessment that the revenue underlying the annual accounts of the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •  • •
Points 3.20.9 to 3.20.9.2.31 describe significant and systematic infringements of B's financial rules not only B.ros, but also other payment rules and rules.
The cumulative error resulting from irregular payments shall be at least EUR 7,7 million or 10,3% of the total payments made by B or B made in 2017.
Judgment on the compatibility and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.7.
In our assessment, the payments on which the financial statements are based on 31 December 2017 are, on the basis of the importance of the facts referred to in section ăThe financial bases referred to in the judgment on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the financial statements as at 31 December 2017 which have not been given.
Emphasis on facts 3.20.8.
Since the end of 2017, the staff situation B has read rapidly.
At management level B, four out of ten management posts and 18 out of 27 management posts were not in management positions.
In the Department of Administration, it is three of the four executive positions and the WAA of 10 executive positions, which is a serious challenge from the point of view of B level of education at the B level of the track.
In addition, 129 temporary staff were selected at the end of May 2018 but 78 temporary staff were still open.
Of the contract staff, 71 were employed and 13 were still open.
Currently, B W.R. does not have the so-called administrative capitulation to get so many job vacancies (see Table 2).
In general, in the current situation, the development of Bjarus's ability in Bjarn is of considerable importance in the current situation.
DE C 434/118 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Table 2 Biřros organisations at the beginning of June 2018
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/119 COMMENTS ON THE JUSTICE AND JUSTICE OF PAYMENT AND PAYMENT OF INTERNAL CONTROLS IN THEIR CIRCUMSTANCES
Since 2016, R.R.R. is facing an unprecedented extension of the scope of tasks and capabilities in order to provide operational and technical support to the Member States in the context of the migration crisis.
In 2016, the budget rose from EUR 19 million to EUR 79 million after the second amendment to the 2017 budget.
The number of orders increased from 87 in 2015 to 140 in 2017.
In 2015, payments increased by 245% from 2,578 to 8 381 in 2017.
3.20.10.
B Hellenischero is one of the few institutions of the European Union that have several locations.
In addition to the headquarters in Malta, which has 179 statutory staff, the BNA manages two large support activities in Greece and Italy, in which 747 experts from the Member States and their associated countries participated in 2017, 202 cultural intermediaries (dolmeters), 178 temporary staff and 21 temporary staff.
3.20.11.
As the Court has already stated in Special Report No 6/2017 ăThe EU's response to the refugee crisis: the hotspot approach already in EU Special Report No 6/2017: in the case of high-level hotspots, the EU strongly discourages Member States from providing sufficient resources.
The effectiveness of these measures is particularly weakened by the fact that Member States are sending their experts for a very short period of time (six to eight weeks).
The extraordinary operational challenge caused by the migration crisis has not been overcome by a sound governance structure and effective internal control 3.20.12.
B applying measures in 2015 to support Greece and Italy, B in applying 2015, R.R. faced insufficient resources which Member States have allocated to the posting of workers.
B investment in B's employment plan in B in that country has already created difficulties.
Since 2014, the Court regularly reiterates its point that B Geschäftsbankenro has a large turnover of its employees.
In its subsequent annual reports, the Court has repeatedly stressed that this situation poses a serious risk for the achievement of the objectives set out in the annual and multiannual work programmes.
Despite repeated attempts (36 recruitment procedures and 100 new procedures in 2017), B still failed to fully recruit and maintain its employees (see also point 3.20.8).
3.20.13.
The overarching challenges of the operational migration crisis have not been addressed by a sound governance structure.
The Administrative Board did not set up an internal audit unit in B Künstlerro and activities in Greece and Italy were not reviewed internally.
By the end of 2017, the Management Board had only begun limited supervision of the budget.
3.20.14.
In the case of the company B Duero, there are no internal legal services or legal documents which are, on a systematic basis, not internal.
B communicated most of the legal issues (mainly of staff and public procurement), without clearly defining in the internal rules or guidelines who is entitled to commission any kind of legal issues from outside, to which law firm and under which conditions.
Although B explained that B had no more than eight different law firms, there was no comprehensive list of lawyers, cases and opinions.
3:20.15.
Legal services are not adequately taken into account in B in order to ensure that they serve only in order to defend B's interests not in order to defend the interests of natural persons.
Appropriate procedures to protect against conflicts of interest are not always effective.
In general, the use of external services limits the possibility of resolving disputes prior to filing a complaint.
3.20.16.
In the cases referred to in paragraphs 3.20.13 to 3.20.14 B.R. exposes R.R. to financial losses and losses.
These cases are currently under internal investigation B not only in B INTERNATIONALERO but also in cases where investigations are currently underway.
Numerous significant infringements resulting from the lack of internal control of payments for ancillary services 3.20.17.
In 2017, EUR 7.7 million in H Whe.
Since there was no competitive procurement procedure, the Court considered that the contract for the provision of ancillary services in Greece was not in line with the rules for the procurement of public contracts for 2016.
However, in 2017, a payment of EUR 4.8 million of EUR 4.8 million has not yet been made under this unlikely order B.
DE C 434/120 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.18.
The procurement procedures for additional services in Malta in 2017 (the amount of payments in 2017: EUR 1.0 million) have proved impossible (e.g. short deadlines for the submission of tenders, lack of transparency, lack of transparency of payments within the deadline) which exposed competition to one of the main reasons for the award of public contracts.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Therefore, the procedures had to be repeated several times due to the lack of offers.
3.20.19.
Therefore, the Ancient Master Village B did not carry out sufficient checks to comply with the national rules on temporary public procurement, resulting in serious financial risks and the reputation of the B Village.
In addition, in some cases, in some cases, in some cases, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in countries, in countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some regions, in some countries, in some regions, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in other countries, in other countries, in other countries, in some countries, in other countries, in other countries, countries, in other countries, in some countries, in other countries, in other countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in other countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in some countries, in other countries, in some countries, in other countries, in some countries, in other countries, in some countries, in other countries, in other countries, in some countries,
Staff payments 3.20.20.
In 2017, the staff-related payments amounted to EUR 13.5 million. The Court found that four of the 14 recruitment procedures were serious.
3.20.21.
For example, B to B did not publish an employment announcement for the post of chief advisor, for example, but on the basis of a reserve list, which was set up for the post of director of the department.
This was not always justified given the number of notifications received within the given deadline.
3.20.22.
Certain recruitment procedures for AD staff were not appropriate for the grade for which the notice was submitted.
In the case of the procedure for the appointment of a manager in the department of the Administration in the Administrations, the tender for the posts was more restrictive than in the case of the same posts in the other departments.
In the case of further proceedings, the assessment of the suitability of candidates has not been adequately documented.
Payments for rentals and related construction works 3.20.23.
In 2017, the total rent for all B.4ros in different locations amounted to EUR 2 million.
The Court found that Bshur had signed a lease agreement without a proper analysis of the local market in Malta and several new Bshur in Athens, Lesbos and Chios.
3:20.24.
In June 2017, B to B Tower signed a lease agreement for B. Roflachen in Lesbos.
She also accepted an agreement with the tenant also without any competition from the work on adapting the leased land to the needs of the village B.
The value of the contract for works (EUR 0.7 million in euro during the first months of the lease) has repeatedly exceeded the jurisdictional value of the lease contract.
The investment in leased buildings poses serious financial and operational risks.
- 3.20.25. - Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm.
In 2018, B.R. decided to lease in Chios and related construction works.
It is currently seeking to reduce the financial risk associated with the disposal.
Payment for travel expenses 3.20.26.
The Court issued an unlikely contract for tourism services for 2016 for EUR 4 million.
the contract has been awarded to a tenderer who has not met all the selection criteria;
In 2017, B▁NAZWAro continued to make payments of EUR 1,5 million on the basis of an illegal order.
3:20.27.
On 14 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 June 2016, on 14 June 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 June 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 June 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, on 14 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, on 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 15 March 2016, 14 March 2016, 14
This case is currently under internal investigation by Mr Erstattungen.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other payments 3.20.28.
In addition, other services, such as cleaning services, security services, interpretation services and consultancy services based on public procurement, have been systematically disrupted by the same services and services.
The Court has identified significant amounts to identify B needs for B.4.2003, to draw up specifications, to select the type of contract, the procedures to be used for the award of contracts, the timing of the submission of tenders, the evaluation and award procedures (i.e. the weighting of price criteria in relation to quality criteria), changes and downtimes in contracts, the award of service contracts for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services for services.
These measures have an impact on the basis of competition and on the transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination of tenderers.
The following points contain some examples for the above endings.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/121 3.20.29.
B landesweitro directly awarded in 2017 an order for consultancy services in the implementation of the Action Plan in the Greek islands.
The contract was awarded to the operator selected in advance without any of the procurement procedures provided for in the Financial Regulation.
The procurement procedure and all related payments (€992000) were therefore incompatible with the requirements.
3:20.30.
B 731ro has repeatedly changed the contract with the law firm in 2016 and has increased it to EUR 259000 in 2018.
As regards the contract in 2017, a payment of EUR 98332 in H.he of EUR 98332 was made in part in relation to advisory services which required a competitive procurement procedure.
Changes and payments concerning these advisory services were therefore incompatible with the rules.
Three-two-three-three-one-one-three-three-three-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-three-one-one-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-three-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-three-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-two-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one.
The execution of the contract concluded in 2013 (value: EUR 120 000, raised to EUR 132 000 in 2017)..... in international hotels between four and six events, in four years, was not in line with the original objects of the contract.
Beptischro made use of the contract instead of 50 smaller events.
Therefore, it was not possible to implement changes to the Treaty...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.20.32
A meeting took place in Brussels on 14 December 2014 in Brussels on 14 December 2014. A meeting took place in Brussels on 14 December 2014. A meeting took place in Brussels on 14 December 2014. A meeting took place in Brussels on 14 December 2014. A meeting took place in Brussels on 14 December 2014.
In 2016, the Commission received financial assistance from B.4ro to ensure adequate economic development in Greece, to promote the development of the European Union and the region of T?rkei, as well as a significant acceleration of redistribution in order to reduce the current high burden for Greece.
All these blessings may be at the heart of the court of Beros, ne, the assistance of witnesses, which may be of common interest.
Butterro used financial assistance for payments (EUR 6.4 million in 2016 and EUR 1.7 million in 2017) for commitments made in connection with these commitments.
However, he did not include these talks in the calculation of the Betrification of the countries cooperating with them.
Including this Beitrage, the associated countries paid EUR 0.5 million more.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years.
Given that in 2008, 2008 in 2008, 2008 in 2008, 2008 in 2008, 2007 in 2007, 2007 in 2007 in 2007 there was a 34% increase compared to 2008 compared to 2008, 2007 compared to 2008, 2007 in 2007 in 2007, a 34% increase compared to 2008 compared to 2008 in 2012, compared to 2007 in 2012, compared to 2007 in 2012, compared to 2012 in 2012, compared to 2012.
The decision of the Executive Director shall consist of three categories (A, B or C) of participants in the meetings organised by the B organised for reimbursement.
The number of participants who have been selected as persons who may receive an refund for the category ăA for 2013 increased from 61 % to 69 % in 2014.
Two of the three tenderers who participated in the procurement procedure for travel services under the framework contract for the provision of services of EUR 4 million for the period 2016-2020 were asked to provide additional information on the same selection criteria.
As a result, the 2016 Framework Agreement and the payments based on it of EUR 920 561 of EUR 9 in 2016 are incompatible with the requirements.
2016 (expires in 2017) (3)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/123 Court's observations A framework agreement of EUR 1 8.6 million, worth EUR 3.6 million, on ancillary services related to the management of the migration crisis, was granted directly in February 2016.
The framework agreement was awarded to an economic operator selected in advance who did not benefit from any of the procurement procedures provided for in the EU Financial Regulation and is therefore not in line with the relevant EU rules and the 2016 payments in H.2.22 for an amount of EUR 592 for EUR 273.
In August 2016, B Website opened an open procedure for the award of service contracts in different countries to meet the needs of cultural intermediaries.
The total value of the framework agreement f was divided into four tranches ( tranches 2 to 5) into EUR 60 million per four years.
However, the contractor met the financial requirements for the selection criteria (annual turnover of EUR 1 million) only in the previous two years; in the second year, an agreement was reached on the commitments with the Joint Organisation under which it would order the contractor (s) to return the loan.
At the extraordinary European Council meeting of 23 April 2015 and in the 10-point migration plan adopted by the Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs Ministers on 20 April 2015, Member States were invited to in this way ensure that all migrants are to be torn down in this way.
This required the Greek State to purchase and supply 90 fingerprint scanners and 90 compatible computers (equipped) of EUR 1.1 million under the grant agreement concluded between the Commission and B under the B and the grant agreement.
However, there was no B staff on site on the site to meet this requirement. However, the greatest of the strongest Greek workers reported that this equipment was delivered to hotspots in February and in early March 2016 and was delivered to its intended purpose only in July 2017.
Year 2016 - Review (completed/permanent/permanent/permanent)
C 434/124 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN The Court's comments Contracting entities may request written explanations of the essential elements of prices or costs which appear to be extremely low and of whether they may be an opportunity to submit comments (5).
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) evaluation report of October 2016 highlighted the lack of appropriate planning of procurement procedures for administrative expenditure and the lack of supervision of both procedures and bottlenecks for individual procurement procedures for framework agreements.
In 2016, R.R. faced various challenges in its operational environment, including not only a substantial increase in its budget, an extension of its tasks, but also a significant increase in the number of promotions, the re-employment of the position.
This significantly changed and unstable situation has not been resolved by the new validation of the invoicing system or by the introduction of the system for the non-regular ex post-a-a-a-a- post-port- post-port-ex-po-a-po-a-po-a-po-a-po-a or by the introduction of an ex-po-a- post invoicing system.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor... for the purchase of a software license and for maintenance and maintenance.
In 2016, a payment of EUR 534 900 in H Whe was made to the contractor of the framework agreement.
At the request of the Commission, the results of the B Hochspannungsros were assessed externally in 2011-2014, which was presented in the final report in December 2015.
B Spredro is currently implementing an action plan which, in the light of its extended mandate, was agreed with the Administrative Board and a final implementation report was planned in June 2017.
In 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 ongoing 2016 in ongoing in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 ongoing in ongoing in 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in ongoing in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 ongoing in 2016 in 2016 in ongoing in 2016 in 2016 in progress in progress in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in progress in 2016 ongoing in progress in ongoing in progress in progress in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in progress in progress in progress in 2016 in progress in progress in progress in progress in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016 in 2016.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/125 PL Court's comments B's real estate purchased and built 65 containers worth a total of EUR 852136 to be used as mobile hotspots in Greece and Italy.
VAT refunds in 2014 (180919 EUR) and in 2015 (245 960 EUR) were still available at the end of 2016.
Title II (administrative expenditure) provides for a high rate of appropriations for the following financial year (EUR 1 076 583 and EUR 36.9% respectively, EUR 2,5 million and EUR 43.9% respectively).
It is therefore not necessary, in view of the fact that what has happened is not necessary, that at this stage, what has become possible to ensure that the objectives can be achieved, in view of the fact that at the same time, in the case where the report concludes that it was not on a daily basis that it was not found that it was not possible in this case to ensure that the Commission, where the Commission, on the basis of Article 6 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1291/2013, was not in a position to allow this, in the absence of full or in view of the fact that the Commission, in that report at the same stage, is not necessary to ensure that, in the absence of this, it is therefore necessary for the Commission to allow the Commission to fully or on the basis of reasons that it is justified on the basis of Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No 1291/2013, because it is not possible that the Commission can be fully or fully justified for a reason, that the Commission is justified and not justified.
(2) Internal control standards have been transformed by the Commission into an internal control framework.
(3) The new agreement for the provision of tourism services was signed in Młłużna in 2018.
(4) The new additional service contract for EASO in Greece was signed in the MA in 2018.
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1152/2014 of 4 December 2014 supplementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
(6) In September 2017, Bplänenro considered the IAS ready to implement the recommendations.
(7) The invoicing system was approved in May 2018.
Private companies run by private audit companies are responsible for ex post checking concluded ex post contracts of the neighborhood of audit firms.
(8) The twins plan to introduce systematic checks for all offers of EUR 135 000 from 1 January 2018.
So far, none of them have crossed that threshold.
(9) Insurance undertakings have not submitted the tenders required by B no later than 1 January 2016.
(10) B being the subject of a VAT refund application for all VAT periods from 31 December 2017 for Maltese taxable persons.
In 2017, VAT was recovered in the total amount of EUR 203277 (2014 and the 3rd quarter of 2016).
DE C 434/126 The Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Bpartment B 1-4ro's replies thank Hof'r for the very helpful report.
At the same time, B Sorgfaltro is grateful to the Court for the difficult situation in which, in the reporting period, due to the massive extension of its responsibilities, B Sorgfaltro had the intention of supporting the Member States and participating in the implementation of EU initiatives, including relocation and relocation of EU-T relocations, the increase of the budget, the massive increase in payments and the increase in procurement procedures (both in terms of number and complexity).
In addition, B Steuervorro has to manage different locations and does not take up many managerial positions (heads of departments, head of departments, head of sectors).
In this reply, B shallro will refer to some of the Court's observations, but will generally accept the report and the findings of the Court.
3.20.6. and 3.20.13.
As regards systematic infringements of B provisions, B is not a contractor, B is a contractor who, under the new leadership, did not take the necessary steps to ensure that compliance is a priority, and that it is a central element of culture and in the course of all its activities.
This includes objective, honest and open internal control, ăself-assessment in.
B Wertzollro accepts the Court's statement that the supervisory structures to be supervised by BOości and the internal control structures in the past have not affected the attention needed in order to ensure justice and order in an appropriate manner.
Also in this context, B B is unable to conclude that the construction of structures and procedures will have the absolute priority in terms of systematic legality and orderlyness (and thus to the extent to which the new management of the new management is the most comprehensive and comprehensive reporting).
3,20.6., 3,20.8. and 3,20.12.
The Court rightly points out that the staff situation in Bowara has deteriorated and is insufficient and that it is an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal control system.
The current staffing situation is one of the greatest challenges of solving the security problems the Court has identified in its observations, which can, to a large extent, be seen as a result of a lack of resources in the framework of structured and structured action.
B Lieutenant Bjro deals directly with this problem and conducts urgent recruitment procedures on the basis of a reliable recruitment plan that precedes the identification of needs, in order to fill management posts and other important positions (operational and administrative).
In addition, B has usually entrusted B to work on personal money to cope with the problem of staff fluctuations, although it has to be realised that the low adjustment rate compared with the relatively high cost of living in Malta plays an important role in the matter, B of this type of action must be more satisfactory to workers.
Some actions, such as flexible working conditions, improved internal communication and organisation of events for employees, have already been implemented.
3.20.9. and 3.20.19.
The Court correctly describes the difficulties and, in absolute terms, the rapid increase in financial transactions and procurement procedures.
These figures speak in clear language, but in principle do not reflect values in finance and in public procurement.
These figures also fail to take account of additional circumstances and measures which, for example, fail to take account of situations in which they are unable to enforce public procurement measures and situations, such as: they are unable to attract experts in external financing (Articles 204 and 287 of the Financial Regulation), which is a heavy burden for the public procurement sector.
In the coming years, the situation can be expected to deteriorate further in this regard since B, in the light of the medical information of B's origin, will seek medical experts.
training courses and training training courses, including training training courses and training courses, training courses and training training courses, training courses and training training courses, training courses and training training courses, training training courses and training courses, training training courses and training training courses, training training training courses and training training courses, training training courses and training training courses, training training courses and training courses, training training courses, training training courses and training training courses, training training courses, training courses and training courses, training training courses, training training courses and training courses, training training courses and training training courses, training training courses and training courses, training courses and training courses, training courses and training courses, training courses and training courses, training courses and training courses, training courses and training courses and training courses, training courses, training courses and training courses and training courses, training courses and training and training courses, training courses and training courses, training courses and training courses, training courses, training courses and training courses and training courses, training courses in training, training courses in training courses and training and training courses in training courses in training, training courses in training and training in training, training, training courses and training courses in training, training courses in training, training and training courses in training in training and training in training training in training and training and training courses in training and training and training courses in training courses in training courses in training courses in training and training courses, training in training in training in training in training in training and training courses in training in training courses in training in training training and training in training in training in training and training in training in training in training in training in training training in training in training in training in training and in training in training in training in training in training and training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training and training in training in training in training training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training training in training in training in training in training training in training in training in training in training and training in training in training in training in training and training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training and training in training in training in training in training in training in training and training in training in training and training and training in training and training in training in training and training in training in training in training and training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training in training
In the rural regions of Italy and Greece, the conditions for a competitive market for services and products are not very good.
Furthermore, B Fräsro is an unusual customer with regard to the scope of service contracts in Malta as it is in most cases unable to meet the most important requirements for service contracts.
3.20.10.-3.20.12. and 3.20.19.
This feature is important in terms of important administrative costs, as well as of the most moderate environment in terms of the introduction of efficient internal control structures.
It should also be noted that B Slowenischerro, because of its operational capacity, geographical coverage and (as the Court rightly states) restrictions on the recruitment of experts from Member States, are highly dependent on contractors.
This is a factor in increasing the scope of the procurement and financing tasks (including decentralised financial actors) because in Greece, Italy and Cyprus:
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/127 and Official Journal of the European Union C 434/127
In this case, employees also have a key role to play, and B now have the same role (in recognition of the multiplication factor due to the role of the agency with multiple locations) to allocate the resources necessary to ensure the accuracy and quality of the procurement and financial cycles, as well as the quality and legal quality of the procurement cycles, and to encourage the consultancy firm to ensure decentralisation.
3:20.14, 3:20.15 and 3:20-16.
B▁szyjro recognises and accepts the need to be rid of internal legal knowledge.
In addition, B In feed does not agree with the statement that legal services must always be strictly in line with the interests of B not, but with the interests of individuals (which does not eliminate each other).
B respect for external rights and external rights and civil rights.
The Court notes in its report that internal investigations continue to be carried out in this case and that the results are transmitted to the Court.
Three-twenty-seventh and three-twenty-sixth.
Mr Bșro accepts these comments.
These measures were put in place in an undeniable manner following the Court's finding of an irregularity in the 2016 Restructuring Report (investigation of the Court's report in September 2017).
Unfortunately, in 2017, due to the deadlines and the fact that B Blones quickly replaced the Vertridge, after finding that it was illegal, payment was made from the contract.
3.20.18. and 3.20.19.
The EESC acknowledges the comments and recalls that these problems can be considered as the result of insufficient resources as a result of internal control and management, which the Court sets out in its report.
3.20.23.-3.20.25.
In its report, the Court stated that, at the moment, an internal investigation is underway.
3.20.29.-3.20.31.
3:20.32.
As regards the last paragraph of the report (43) B, there are doubts as, in accordance with the agreements concluded with DG BUDG in 2016, B W., B implemented in 2016.
B lending to the borrower B the percentage of lending to borrowers in the lending form of EUR 1 billion during the period in which the borrower of EUR 1 billion took over the borrower during which the bank took over the borrower's control of the borrower of EUR 1 billion of EUR 1 billion during which the borrower of EUR 1 billion was transferred during the period during which the borrower was transferred to the borrower of EUR 1 billion during which the borrower was not transferred in the period during which the borrower was sold in the borrower's currency of EUR 1 million during the period during which the borrower was not transferred.
DE C 434/128 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.21.
EUROPEAN CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTER CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTER CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM CENTRUM
The European Centre for Disease Assessment and Control (hereinafter "the Centre of ădas' and "the Centre of ăECDC') established in Stockholm was set up by Regulation (EC) No 8EC/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (167).
It also aims to coordinate pan-European networks of contacts between those who are to a large extent interested in this area.
3.21.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the centre (168).
Table Main figures for Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) 58 Total staff on 31 December (1) 279 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
WRITE OF WRITE OF UNREADED EXPRESSION IN 2016 58 260 W.R. 3.21.3.
(a) the Centre's annual accounts, including the annual accounts[169) and the budget implementation report (170) of the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts... and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
On the basis of our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the Centre's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Centre's accounts for the financial year 2017, the annual accounts for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year, the financial statements for the financial year, the financial statements for the financial year.
OJ L 142, 30.4.2004, p. 1.
(168) For more information on the possibilities and possibilities of the Centre, see www.ecdc.europa.eu.
(169) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial results, cash flow accounts, net change table, as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases, as well as other extortion.
(170) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure collectively and expenditure as well as extortion.
The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 and Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 and Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council.
Payments Decision on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.21.6.
The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
Regulation (EC) No 881/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 July 2009 on the European Social Fund (OJ L 309, 24.11.2009, p. 1).
In May 2015, the provisional Director of the Centre was appointed by a decision of the Management Board.
By 31 December 2016, that post had been transformed into a period of one year by the eight months referred to in the Staff Regulations.
And up to 15 other programs for other employees.
In its evaluation report of October 2016, the Internal Audit Service (IAS)'s Public Procurement Service (IAS) stressed that, despite the ongoing activities of the Centre in order to break internal control of public procurement, there are still significant restrictions on public procurement.
The IAS report concludes that the planning and monitoring of procurement procedures are weak and that procurement procedures are not always covered by the annual work programme or financing decision.
In addition, it refers to the Court's report on the Centre's annual accounts for 2015 and to the Centre's 2015 accounts, which affect the transparency of procurement procedures.
The Centre and IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan.
As in previous years, Title III (operational expenditure) (EUR 7,9 million and 41% respectively (EUR 7,5 million in 2015 and 42% respectively) (operational expenditure incurred in the following financial year) expenditure was high at EUR 7,9 million and 41% respectively (EUR 7,5 million in 2015 and 42% respectively).
This appropriation is intended primarily to cover multi-annual projects relating to scientific advice (EUR 2.4 million), supervision (EUR 1.3 million), public health training (EUR 1.4 million) and public health training (EUR 2.1 million) and public health IT applications (EUR 2.1 million).
The Centre may use separate budgetary resources to better reflect the multi-annual nature of experience and the inevitable differences between contracts, supplies and payments.
(1) Following the selection procedure, the interim director was appointed director in 2017.
The Centre has launched new IT tools to improve the planning and monitoring of procurement procedures.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/131 ANSWERS OF THE CENTRE of the Centre shall take note of the Court of Auditors' report.
DE C 434/132 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.22.
INTRODUCTION 3.22.1.
The European Food Safety Organisation (hereinafter ădie Beh of revenue (hereinafter "Ausdie Beh die Beh die'), ăEFSA in force in Parma, was established by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council[171).
3.222.
The main figures for Beh are shown in the table.
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget value (million euro) (1) 81 at 31 December (2) 443 (1) The budget data are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall consist of officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data supplied by national experts. EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND COUNCIL PRESENTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL ON THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE COURT W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W. W W. W W. W. W. W. W W. W. W W W W W W W W W. W W W W W W W W. W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W
(d) the annual accounts for the financial year 2012; (d) the annual accounts for the financial year 2012; (d) the annual accounts for the financial year; (d) the annual accounts for the financial year; (d) the annual accounts for the financial year; (d) the annual accounts for the financial year; (d) the annual accounts for the financial year; (d) the annual accounts for the financial year; (d) the annual accounts for the financial year;
OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1.
(172) For more information on Behterpens' achievements and achievements, see www.efsa.europa.eu.
(173) The annual accounts shall include the balance sheet, the balance sheet of the financial results, the balance sheet of the financial flows, the table of net changes, as well as the summary of the balance sheet accounts as well as of the other shock absorbers.
(174) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, including as well as exfoliations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/133 The legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts underlying the experimental income of the opinion on the legality and regularity of the income underlying the annual accounts C 434/133. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is justified and correct in all material respects.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.22.6.
3.22.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ADAPTATION TO THE Accounts 3.22.8
The Head of Administration/corporate Services is the Head of Accounting.
In May 2017, Behishze concluded three framework agreements under the cascade system, on behalf of the nine agencies which participated in the tendering procedure, covering a wide range of financing services.
While procurement procedures within the Agency in public procurement are a good way to improve administrative efficiency, in the case of public procurement, for which specific services to be carried out at the time of the call for tender, within framework contracts where each contract is again called for to apply for a contract, this is a good way to achieve a good level of costs and benefits and not in framework contracts under the cascade system.
TRANSMISSION TRANSMISSION BY INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.22/10.
In 2017, the Commission's internal audit services submitted a report to the Commission on the procedure for the assessment of regulated products/evaluation phases for the authorisation of assessment measures for plant protection products (175).
Money is currently preparing an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a risk that there is a need for improvement.
INTERVIEW OF COMMENTS FROM FORMER YEARS 3.22.11.
The annex contains detailed information on the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years. (175) The Court has not assessed these corrective work.
C 434/134 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Further action on the observations of the Court of Justice of previous years No clear and comprehensive ex post financial control strategy has yet been identified to cover all areas of activity and has been identified in the scope and scope of these audits.
In its evaluation report of November 2016, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the existing IT project management controls are appropriate, but indicated that in the IT management field, these controls are significant.
EFSA and IAS agreed on a corrective action plan for 2015 for 2016 (closed/in progress/in progress/in progress)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/135 ANSWERS BEH RDE 3.22.4.
EFSA maintains the Court's inconsistent opinions on the adequacy of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the accounts on which the annual accounts are based.
3.22.8.
In order to ensure consistency of the accounts, in 2008 the EFSA Administrative Board implemented the formal requirement of EFSA laid down in the EFSA Financial Regulations: the current clearing requirement was established by the EFSA Administrative Board.
The accounting officer shall be subject to the Head of the BUS Division. In order to ensure the functional non-compliance of the accounting officer with the education evaluation procedures, the Head of the BUS Division shall be the assessor, and the Chairman of the Preparatory Committee shall be the authorising staff member.
The accounting officer may at any time be cancelled by the management board before or finally by the management board.
3.2.2.9.
For individual entries relating to transactions relating to the cascade system there is no obligation to use the model of individual invitations to tender and both models may be appropriate depending on the scenario concerned.
EFSA considers that individual calls for standard services that have been re-notified for the competition are more suitable for standard services and are used in EFSA statistical services for statistical services, systematic monitoring of literature and research of target groups.
EFSA uses the cascade model for models for which a long-term contract is in the foreground.
In particular, in the case of the External Service Framework Agreement for the preparation for external use, it is primarily about (i) proper understanding of the competences of EFSA, (ii) proper assurance of the coherent method of preparation for work and (iii) assurance of credibility at all levels of administration.
EFSA has carried out an audit of budgetary appropriations for proposals which are carried out in the cascade system.
3.22/10.
EFSA will implement an action plan for the assessment of regulated products/evaluation phase for the authorisation of pharmaceutical products on the basis of the IAD assessment procedure.
DE C 434/136 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.23.
INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION
The European Institute for Gender Equality (hereinafter referred to as the ădas Institute (hereinafter referred to as the "Institut") (hereinafter referred to as the "Institute for Gender Equality") (hereinafter referred to as the "Institute for Gender Equality") based in Vilnius was established by Regulation (EC) No 1922/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (176).
3.23.2.
The main figures for the Institute are shown in the table (177).
Table Main figures for the Institute 2017 Budget (million euro) 8 Total staff on 31 December (1) 45 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
(a) the Institute's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (178) and the budget implementation report (1979) (f) of the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the budget implementation accounts and (g) (g) (g) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts, the Institute's annual accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Institute's accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Institute's annual accounts, the Institute's annual accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Institute's annual accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Institute's accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Institute's accounts, the Institute's accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Institute's accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Institute's financial statements as of 31 December 2017, the institution's financial statements, the institution's financial accounts, the institution's financial statements as of 31 December 2017, the institution's financial statements as of 31 December 2017, the institution's financial statements as of 31 December 2017, the institution's financial statements, financial statements as of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017
(177) For more information on the Institute's competences and competences, visit the Institute's website www.eige.europa.eu.
(178) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, and a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other changes in net value.
(1979) The budget implementation reports shall include an overview of the revenue and expenditure to be collected and an overview of revenue and expenditure as well as depreciation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/137 The rule of law and regularity of the annual accounts of Predg of the European Union1r Predg years on Legality and regularity of the annual accounts underlying the annual accounts 3.23.5. According to our assessment, partial revenue for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.23.6.
3.23.7.
The following observations did not call into question the Court's ruling on admissibility.
The Institute was sued at the end of 2017 in four of the rejected tenderers in four cases in the context of the three procurement procedures.
In each of these cases, the applicant requested the annulment of the award decision and the award of compensation.
The resulting compensation claim in these four cases amounts to EUR 700,000 and 9% of the Institute's annual budget respectively.
According to the evaluation of an external lawyer of the Institute, the rescue position of EUR 75 000 (or 1% of the Institute's annual budget) was entered in the H▁przygotowaniehe in order to cover the anticipated losses.
The judgment given by the General Court in each of these cases will decide on the validity and regularity of the procedures for the award of public contracts in that case and on the amounts due.
In 2016, the Institute organised an open call for offers for tourism services.
The descriptions and valuation process did not provide sufficient guarantee of the best quality and price.
It cannot be considered that the procurement form and the pricing mechanism are not appropriate as they do not permit the appropriate assessment of the tenders submitted by the tenderers.
The framework agreement was concluded for a four-year maintenance period of EUR 700 000.
In 2017, a payment of EUR 137 000 was made in H.H.he.
3.23.10.
Agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties participating in procurement procedures (180) (181) in view of the fact that such a rule applies also to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a set of information data covering all stages of the procurement procedure, including electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) of procurement documents (2015) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
In accordance with the information submitted by the Commission by the end of 2017, the institution introduced electronic invoicing of certain procedures but did not introduce an electronic invitation to tender and to tender.
3.23.11.
The Institute publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which, in particular, will improve transparency and transparency on the website and will allow to read the employment notices of European institutions and agencies.
INTERNAL SERVICE REPORTS 3.23.12.
In 2017, the Commission's internal audit services presented an evaluation report on the management of relations with stakeholders and with stakeholders and external communication (182).
Verification of the comments from previous years 3.23.13. This annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken as a result of the Court's previous years' observations.
(180) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 (electronic administration)
(181) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) (electronic administration)
(182) The farm has not worked through this through-the-box work.
(ECB/2014/14) (ECB/2014/14) European Central Bank (ECB/2014/60) (ECB) (ECB/2014/14) (ECB/2015/14) (ECB/2015/14) (ECB/2015/14) (ECB/2015/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2015/4) (ECB/2015/4) (ECB/2015/4) (ECB/2015/4) (ECB/2015/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/4) (ECB/2014/14) (ECB/2015/4) (ECB/2015/4) (OJ L 4, 7.4.2014, p. 7) (OJ L 4, 7.4.2014, p. 9).
The Institute may make greater use of the separate budget in order to take greater account of the multi-annual nature of the experience and the inevitable differences between contracts, supplies and payments.
In 2016, the Institute launched an open call for tender for 2016 for a framework agreement to maintain and update its instruments and sources for gender statistics and at the level of EUR 1.6 million.
At the request of the tenderer, the institution explained on its website that a maximum amount of EUR 800 000 was fixed for each lot.
However, two separate framework agreements with the same tenderer were concluded with the same tenderer of EUR 1,6 million of EUR 1,6 million per lot, with the possibility to continue to obtain up to 50% per lot, allowing the institution to break up up to EUR 4,8 million or three times the amount referred to in the contract notice during the entire duration of the framework contract (up to four years).
In 2016, payments of EUR 87 920 were made in H. He.
In response to the letter, the Instytut Nochràge signed the two frameworks in which H in response to the letter on the reduction of the costs of the letter of EUR 800000 (up to 50%).
In the invitation to tender under the negotiated procedure with one tenderer for service contracts for the operation and support of IT tools and databases, the price of H under the tendering procedure was limited to EUR 81 000 (excluding VAT) and it was established that for contracts h for contracts h was not affected.
However, after receiving offers of two of the three required benefits, the institution concluded a service contract with a price of EUR 97 410.
In 2016, payments of EUR 73 057 were made.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/139 DE Court's observations In January 2016, the Institute published an external evaluation.
Year 2016 State of development (closed/closed/closed/closed)
DE C 434/140 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF INSTITUTIONS 3.23.8.
Oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
The EIG analysed the weaknesses and subsequently adjusted the tender procedures, irrespective of the decisions of the General Court in these cases, in order to minimise the risk of possible legal disputes and possible dissatisfaction in the case of rejected candidates.
3.23.9.
EIGE notes and stresses that there are internal controls to determine and control the prices offered by the air and hotel service provider.
The lieutenant shall inform the network of EU agencies for the exchange of best practices.
In addition, joint tenders organised by the Commission services (PMO) were organised with the interest of the interested parties.
Following the award of the EIGE contract, the EIGE intends not to lose the existing framework agreement on travel services, accommodation and services to be provided.
It is expected that in the third and fourth quarters of 2018 these modules in the EIGE will be implemented in full.
Given the limited number of procedures and the high costs associated with the services, the EIG decided not to follow this option for economic reasons and ineffectiveness.
Given that certain vacant posts require publication of other posts in all 24 official EU languages and the fact that certain vacant posts on account of their specific nature recommend publication of other posts, the Court of Justice held that the channels, which are currently taking part in posts, provide adequate transparency and publication.
3.23.12.
In line with the recommendations set out in the Programme Implementation Report, the EIGE has developed an action plan, which is regularly updated and updated.
The agreed deadline for all actions is 31 December 2018, and the actions are already at a very advanced stage.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/141 3.24.
EUROP is not required in the case of non-marketing of a medicinal product within the meaning of Article 1 (1) (a) of Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Article 1 (1) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2004 on the protection of animals and public health in respect of medicinal products for human use (OJ L 324, 3.12.2004, p. 1); Article 3 (1) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 1 April 2004 on the protection of public and public health medicinal products for human use (OJ L 324, 3.12.2004, p. 3); Article 3 (1) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 1 April 2004 on the protection of public health (OJ L 324, 23.12.2004, p. 1).
The European Medicines Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) established in London was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, replaced by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council[183).
3.24.2.
Table Key figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) Total number of employees on 31 December (2) 2017 331 (1) 766 2016 305 768 (1) Permanent budget. The final budget for 2017 depends on the revenue generated from salaries and salaries in 2017.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (185) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (186) f) and the financial year ending on 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the Agency's budget on which the annual accounts (185) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) are based.
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, as of 31 December 2017, present the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the accounts for 31 December 2017, the financial accounts for 31 December 2017, the financial year, the financial accounts for 31 December 2017, the financial year, the financial accounts for 31 December 2017, the financial year, the financial statements for 31 December 2017, the financial year, the financial statements for the year 2017, the financial year 2017, the year of 31 December 2017, the financial year, the financial year of financial statements for the year, the financial statements for the year, the year of the financial year of 31 December 2017 financial statements of the year 2017, the financial year of the financial year, the year of the year of the year of the year of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year, 31 December 2017, the financial year of the year of the year, the financial year of the financial year of the financial statements of the financial year, the year of the financial year of the year of the year of the year of the financial year of the year of the financial year, the year of the year of the financial year of the financial statements of the financial year of the year of the 31 December of the financial year of the financial year of the year of the 31 December of the 31 December of the financial year, the financial year of the year of the 31 December of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year, the year, the 31 December of the financial year, the financial year of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year for the year of the year of the year of the financial year of the financial year of the financial statements of the financial year of the 31 December of the year of the year of the year of the year for the financial
(183) OJ L 152, 16.6.1997, p. 1.
(184) More information on the competences and competences of the Agency can be found on the Agency's website www.ema.europa.eu.
(185) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial situation, the cash flow account, the table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the supposedly legitimate accounting bases, as well as other changes in net value.
(186) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as of expenditure on revenue and expenditure.
EN C 434/142 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts of the Official Journal of the European Union C 434/142 The legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.24.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts up to 31 December 2017 is justified and correct in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.24.6.
Emphasis on facts 3.24.7.
The Agency in London prepared its initial annual accounts and annual accounts on the basis of the information available at the time of signature (1 June 2018).
3.24.8.
On 20 November 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/199 [1] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 November 2017 to 20 November 2017.
The move to interim cases is planned at the beginning of 2019 and the Agency... has put EUR 18.6 million into the cost of dealing with this.
3.249.
In addition, the lease agreement f.r. reflects the current needs of the London Agency in terms of lease by 2039 without the exit clause.
The rental costs until 2039 amount to EUR 489 million. Of this amount EUR 465 million this amount corresponds to the remaining rental period after the planned removal of the Agency to Amsterdam. this amount is deducted from the conditional amount.
3.24.10.
COMMENTS ON THE CONSIDERATION OF THE COMMENTS ON THE ACCOUNTS 3.24.11.
At the Agency, the head of the financial department is the head of the financial department.
3.24.12.
Furthermore, since 2014, the Agency has been completely restructured and has, at the same time, been commissioned with a new comprehensive task (see paragraphs 3.2.4.15 to 3.24.17). Although these events have led to changes in the Agency's invoicing procedures and system, the invoicing system has not been re-approved since 2013.
The Agency publishes employment notices on its website, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which will require transparency and publication on the website, and the employment notices of the various EU agencies and institutions will be available.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/143 3.24.
In the framework of the framework Financial Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (187) (188).
By the end of 2017, the Agency launched an electronic invitation to tender.
Management of consulting services 3.2.4.15.
The management of the Agency's advisory services was presented in the previous year. In the previous year, the two selected projects for the implementation of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (189) and the Regulation for Clinical Trials (Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (190)) were foreseen, which required the establishment of complex networks.
Since the number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan was not increased, which helped it to build the necessary expertise, the Agency went in the direction of the implementation of these tasks in consulting companies.
However, the use of consulting firms in critical areas has commissioned the Agency to depart from this external expertise.
3.24.16.
In order to regain control of projects, the Agency has identified which functions should not be outsourced but should be carried out internally.
In addition, the Agency shall seek access to the services of consultants not on the basis of time and resources criteria, but on the basis of a fixed price.
The Commission has also introduced a more appropriate procedure for approving changes to the project.
3.24.17.
This requires time to reduce the Agency's critical dependence on consulting firms, and the effects of the measures will only occur over the years.
One of the two major projects of 2016, of which... a pharmacovigilance project (EudraVigilance database on unnoticed therapeutic effects) was completed in 2017, with an additional cost of around EUR 0.5 million.
The clinical trial project is in progress, which does not set the date for the start of the study, but in 2017, the budget was still EUR 4.9 million (191).
Date of start-up: 31 December 2016: Date of start-up: 31 December 2017: Date of start-up: 31 December 2017: Date of start-up: 31 December 2016: Date of start-up: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016: date: 31 December 2016: date: date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016 Date: Date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016 Date: Date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016 Date: 31 December 2016
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service discussed how the Agency implemented the Pharmacovigilance Regulation[192)[192)[193). The Agency developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a likelihood of improvement.
(187) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Governmentlief)
(188) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) Electronic management (ăe-Government Exploration).
OJ L 316, 11.4.2002, p. 38.
OJ L 158, 27.5.2014, p. 1.
(191) In 2018, the project was combined with a new project (SUSAR WITIS 19, climate climate climate climate climate) which amounted to EUR 34.3 million.
(OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29).
(193) The Court has not carried out this analysis not carried out by this analysis. DE C 434/144 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The Court has carried out this analysis not carried out.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/145 PL ANNEX Follow-up action in connection with the Court's observations in previous years The Agency's Regulation on the powers in the Agency sets deadlines for the recovery of the powers of candidates and the related payments paid by the Agency to the national authorities concerned of the Agency[41].
In 2014, the Agency carried out an administrative procedure against its employees in the field of information and communication technologies (ICT).
Since the introduction of the new IT accounting system in 2011, reporting on labour obligations has not been sufficiently transparent.
The Agency has concluded agreements with 25 London hotels on tariffs for qualified workers without having to conduct a competitive tender procedure.
Six agreements on commercial fees and payments in 2016 in H.H.he, amounting to around EUR 2.1 million, are therefore incompatible with the rules.
In 2014, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), the Commission concluded a framework agreement with the contractor (on the acquisition of software and licences and related IT services and consultancy services.
In 2016, a payment of EUR 8.9 million of H.he was made to the contractor of the framework agreement.
The Agency systematically did not take account of systematically calculated prices and charges with suppliers' offers and did not systematically take account of invoices issued to the contractor of the framework agreement.
C 434/146 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations Since 2014, the Agency has been thoroughly reorganized twice, with high and medium-sized R &amp; D positions being regrouped internally.
The implementation of key IT and administrative staff has failed and the Agency and its activities have been exposed to a significant degree of instability.
In addition, there is no system of analysis of opportunities, identification, recruitment and allocation of relevant staff.
Year 2016 Status of repair work (completed/completed/completed/completed/completed/n.a.) Year 2016 Advisory services Advisory services Completed (completed/completed/completed) Year 2016 Advisory services Completed by preparatory (completed) All agencies (completed/not completed) Year 2016 The Court analysed how the Agency used advisory services in two major projects.
The Parliament and the Council have entrusted the Agency with the implementation of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012) and the Clinical Surveillance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 536/2014), which requires the establishment of complex networks across the EU.
Those tasks were delegated to the Agency on the date on which, in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline of 2 December 2013, it is expected to limit its staff.
The number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan has not been established and has been assured that they will obtain the necessary expertise in the field of business and information technology development.
Large use of external consultants As the Agency employed 13 employees in its IT-Delivery Department, it used consulting companies in the field of business analysis, information technology, project management and quality assurance.
In the second quarter of 2016, the Agency was 168 consultants and 60 consultants..................................................................m................m................m...m................................m.................................m................................................m.................m................................................................m..m..................................................................................m.................m..................a.................m................a.................a..................................................................m.................a.................................................................................a.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................m.m.................a.................a.................................m.m.................a.................................................................................................a.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Since the launch of the projects, the Agency has therefore been based on specialist expertise, but not on a strategy that regulates the use of advisers.
Insufficient control over the development and implementation of the project When the Agency received new tasks in 2012 and 2014, it did not receive the appropriate project management method under the said Regulation.
In 2014, a new method was introduced which required a substantial review in September 2016.
Ongoing (see paragraphs [3.24.15-3.24.17])
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/147 PL The Court's observations Several interested parties renounced the envisaged options or the intended approach before approving them on the basis of the formal amendment act.
By mid-2016 all external consultants were closed on the basis of time and resources, although the project clearly defined.
Slowing and increasing costs During the development of systems, the Agency faced costs and distortions.
The numerous changes in the size, budget and timing of the projects concerned, in particular, the repeated adaptations of the system requirements in order to meet the changing needs of the Member States[22].
The table below presents two major projects as examples. The originally scheduled date for launching The current scheduled date for launching the primary budget (Euro) The budget for 31 October 2016 (Euro) Eudravigilance-databank To-Scena u. on unnoticed therapeutic effects 3. The fourth quarter of 2015 on the 4th quarter of 2017 3.7 million 14.3 million clinical advice and EU databases on the 1st quarter of 20176.1 million 24.3 million, under the Grundung Regulation, the Commission carries out an external evaluation of the Agency and its activities every 10 years.
For such a long period of time, stakeholders do not have time to notify the results.
Date of entry into force of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 October 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament and Council documents (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43).
(2) Telematics bodies in which Member States are represented in order to develop and approve information systems requirements which they are able to provide.
DE C 434/148 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.24.8.
3.24.11.
The Agency shall respect the financial rules of the EMA: the Agency shall already be appointed by the Management Board on the basis of Article 50 (1) of the EMA financial rules, and the Management Board shall adopt a detailed sheet of tasks and responsibilities of the EMA.
This disagreement is still transparent because it is still transparent, signed by the young accounting officer and the administrative director.
The approval of the Agency's invoicing systems was launched in March 2018.
3.24.13.
EMA also offers transparency and publication, meaning that, depending on the profile, the website, LinkedIn, agencies, in or in medium publications, or in larger places, or has greater access to them. larger and accessible access.
As a result, the EMA is interested in more than 1000 candidates in the EU, in which more than 1000 candidates participate in the competitions.
In addition, the general implementing rules for the recruitment and recruitment of temporary staff provide that decisions concerning the selection of temporary staff members referred to in Article 2 (f) of the CJR shall be published only in the Agency's working languages and the agencies which do not have the established working language shall publish the selection decisions in all the official languages of the European Union.
On the basis of the decision of the Executive Director of the Executive Director, the EMA shall be the working language from June 2015.
EPSO, however, informed EMA that it still needs to be published on its website to translate employment notices into all EU official languages and to transmit these language versions on the EMA website.
It should be noted that the tender for posts in all the official languages of the Union has a significant impact on the duration of the competitions and has a higher cost.
32.14.14.
By the end of 2017, f.r. has provided all the procedures above the fixed limit of electronic invitations to tender and all the procedures below the fixed limit of e-mail.
Although the Agency did not benefit from electronic invoicing or electronic submission of tenders, in September 2017, the Agency signed an agreement with the European Commission on access to and use of tenders and, in particular, expects the European Commission to include in the submission of tenders in electronic form.
The Agency confirms that the Court considered that the EMA has implemented several important actions to respond to the Court's observations from the Court's 2016 audit on the management of advisory services.
In the case of the two projects concerned, the proposal concerned further budgetary resources in the context of the complex of the co-system concerned and a well-structured system.
This request has been submitted and approved under the portfolio system, and the status of the project has been approved and submitted by consultation with the Administrative Board of the EMA.
32.14.18.
The Agency shall take note of this note.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/149 3.25.
INTRODUCTION 3.25.1.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (hereinafter referred to as the Centre) established in Lisbon was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (194).
The Centre's main task is to collect, analyse and disseminate information on drugs and drugs to collect and publish objective, justified and comparable information at European level.
3.25.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Centre (195).
Table Key figures for Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 16 Total staff at 31 December (2) 111 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall consist of officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Centre.
INTRODUCTION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL TO TAKE ACCOUNT OF THE COURT'S TAKEN ACCOUNT OF TAKEN ACCOUNT OF THE TAKEN TAKEN ACCOUNT IN 2016 15 101 JUSTICE 3.25.3
(a) the Centre's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts ((196) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (197) (fa) and the financial year ending on 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and order on which the accounts (TFEU) are based and Article on the functioning of the European Union (TFEU) in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
On the basis of our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Centre's annual accounts for the year 2017, the Centre's financial accounts for the year 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for the year 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for the year 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Centre's accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Centre's financial statements for the year 31 December 2017, the Centre's financial statements for the year 31 December 2017, the financial statements for the year 31 December 2017, the financial statements, the financial statements for the year 31 December 2017, the financial statements for the financial year, the accounts for the financial year, the financial year, the financial statements for the year, the financial year, the financial year, the financial statements for the year 31 December 2017, the financial statements for the year of accounts, the financial statements for the year of 31 December 2017, the financial year, the financial statements for the year of financial statements for the financial year, the year, financial year of financial statements for the year of financial year, the year of financial year of the financial statements for the year, financial year of the year for the year of the year of financial year of the year concerned, the year of the year of the year concerned, the year of the year of financial year of the year of the year of the financial year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year in which the year of the year of the year concerned, the year of the year of the year in which for the year of the year, financial year of the financial year of the year of the year of the financial year of the year of the financial year of the financial year of the year concerned, the financial year in which the financial year of the year in which for the year concerned, for the year of the year of the financial year concerned, the financial year of the financial year of the year of the financial year,
(194) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
(195) For more information on the capacity and capabilities of the Centre, see www.emcdda.europa.eu.
(296) The accounts shall include an overview of expenditure, an overview of financial results, an account of financial flows, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of assumptions of accounting expenditure and other changes in value.
(197) The reports provided the closure of the revenue and expenditure reviews, as well as the data that combined the forecasts of revenue and expenditure.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.25.6.
3.25.7.
COMMENTS ON THE THE COMMENTS ON THE REPLY OF THE 3.10.8.
At the Centre, the Director of the Department of Administration/Corporate Services is the head of the accounting department.
3.25/10.
In the framework of its framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish uniform rules on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties participating in procurement procedures (198) (199), in view of the fact that this requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing the total IT covering all stages of procurement procedures. The Commission has launched electronic invoicing tools (2010) in electronic form, the publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the submission of tenders in electronic form (2015).
REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.25.11.
In 2017, the Internal Audit Service presented to the Commission a report on the management of data collection, validation and quality assurance (200) by the Centre.
OPINIONING FROM THE YEAR YEARS AGO 3.25.12.
(191) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 of electronic management.
(299) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) (electronic administration)
(200) The Court has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/151 PL ANNEX Follow-up action in connection with the Court's observations in previous years In 2012, the Centre signed a framework agreement of EUR 250 000 in order to be able to sign an individual agreement.
At the end of 2015, the total amount of payments referred to in this Treaty was EUR 382 181, i.e. the ceiling was increased by 50%.
For two H-value issues of EUR 135 000 and EUR 650 000, one of the Centre's officials acted to set up an evaluation committee, to decide on the enlargement decision and to sign the Vertrange as an authorised authorising officer.
However, the powers conferred by the authorising officer were limited to EUR 130000 and were not limited in their entirety.
In 2016, payments under EUR 35 310 were made in H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.H.
In its evaluation report of January 2016, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed that the Centre must improve the management of IT projects.
In particular, the IAS concluded that the long-term, strategic, comprehensive, IT systems that support the Centre's central operational scope are lacking in that the Centre's IT project management methods were only partially tailored to its needs and that the system requirements management process is unacceptable.
The Centre and the IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan for the period 2007-2013.
DE C 434/152 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 of the Official Journal of the European Union
Indeed, this inconsistency has been consistently ensured in accordance with the relevant provisions, in particular by the appointment of auditors by the Centre's Board of Directors, the submission of reports on the functioning and accountability of the Management Boards and the careful observance of the rules on the allocation of the tasks of the Centre's financial entities.
In this context, the Centre is ready to comply with the Court's recommendations, ensuring that the appropriate actions are adequately ready for action and that they are effective and effective in the functioning of the organisation.
3.25.9.
The Observatory shall make public its announcements of its posts, including through the dissemination of information on the members of its management bodies, the national contact points participating in the Jetox programme and the national EU agencies.
In addition, the Centre's state-of-the-art selection procedures are also published on the Agency's internet portal on job vacancies; the EU Agency's network has developed this common online platform, so that the Agency's recruitment procedures become more visible.
In this context, the Centre will control the costs and benefits of publishing additional publications on the EPSO portal.
The Centre shall meet the requirements for electronic procurement procedures in accordance with the relevant EU legal framework and the timetable for electronic procurement in the EU.
As early as August 2015, in cooperation with the relevant services of the European Commission, the Centre established a technical configuration/ICT tools for electronic invoicing (and was also made available by DG DIGIT by the European Commission to create the DG DIGIT framework).
In addition, in 2017, the Centre plans preparatory actions, which must be needed for the use of the modules of the electronic invitation to tender and to tender, in accordance with which any of the above legal frameworks, from October 2018.
The implementation of this plan is ongoing and the Centre expects it to complete this deadline without any problems.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/153 3.26.
AGENCY AGENCY AGENCY AGENCY F unlawful management of IT systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (EU-LISA) INTRODUCTION 3.26.1.
The European Agency for the Operational Management of Information Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (eu-LISA) (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') in Tallinn and in Straa§burg and St. Johann im Pongau) was established by Regulation (EU) No 1077/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (201).
The main task of the Agency is the operational management of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), the Visa Information System (VIS) and the European System (Europeir) (Eurodac) as regards matching the needs of the Finger Exchange System (dac).
3.26.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (202).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff at 31 December (2) 152 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
Publication of the Court of Justice of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (203) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (204) f In the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts on the basis of which the accounts are based and in the light of Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall present, as of 31 December 2017, the Agency's financial balance sheet, the Agency's financial balance sheet as of 31 December 2017, the Agency's financial balance sheet as of 31 December 2017, the results of its financial results and cash flows and net changes as of 31 December 2017, in accordance with the financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 286, 1.11.2011, p. 1.
(202) More information on the Agency's achievements and achievements can be found on the Agency's website www.eulisa.europa.eu.
(203) The annual accounts shall include financial reviews, financial statements, financial accounts, net changes table as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases as well as other financial corrections.
(204) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure of general budget and of extortion.
EN C 434/154 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.26.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.26.6.
3.26.7.
In 2017, the Agency encountered difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of tenderers in the case of a number of medium-value contracts.
3.269.
The Agency currently manages three non-integrated IT systems (SIS II, VIS and Eurodac) which include the processing of data on the Union's Freedom, Security and Justice Policy.
Such an approach could make it difficult for the Agency to achieve economies of scale and synergies between different systems.
The current discussions on extending the mandate of the Agency to the management of a number of additional IT systems in the coming years confirm the growing urgency of this problem.
The Agency, in consultation with the Commission and the Member States, should carry out a detailed cost-benefit analysis in order to contribute to the discussion on a future system development strategy.
3.26.10.
The project of building a new gebude on site in Stra§burg has to a large extent developed.
Although the Agency had already paid the full price in 2016, at the end of 2017 they had not yet been completed and the progress reports on... the completed work covered only around 70% of the work.
Some of the Agency's staff have already acquired this, even though the work is still ongoing.
In December 2017, the contractor made financial claims to the Agency and made a complaint.
The Agency shall apply its own rights to the contractor (205).
3.26.11.
3.26.12.
In the framework of the framework Financial Regulation, agencies should establish uniform rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties participating in procurement procedures (206) and in view of the fact that these rules apply to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently drawing up a comprehensive IT report covering all stages of the procurement of public contracts, a set-up of electronic invoicing tools (2010), an electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
Consulting 3.26.13.
The Agency shall mainly use advisory services related to IT projects because of the nature of its activities.
In accordance with the Agency's provisions, IT projects were implemented in 2017 within the framework of the financial and time framework.
Reference reports on a few technical maintenance projects which were not a part of the schedule of proceedings have been drawn up.
(205) See also the Agency's annual accounts for 2017, Section 2.1.5 ăEvents after the end (206) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79.
(207) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) Electronic management (ăe-Government)
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/155 3.26.14.
The Agency shall use the outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, with around 90% of the projects to be carried out by contractors.
There are three main framework agreements with three consortia, each of which is one of them.
Payments made for these framework agreements in 2017 amounted to EUR 3 million per EUR for Eurodac, EUR 16 million per SIS II and EUR 13 million per VIS.
Although all stages of IT projects, from the definition of requirements and intermediate targets to the start-up of new components of the system, are owned and controlled by the Agency, the model in which, for the purposes of development to date, to the new purposes of the IT system are outsourced poses a serious risk in terms of derogation from economic operators.
This applies to an even more limited number of potential contractors who could deal with these systems and requirements from a safety and safety point of view.
3.26.15.
At the same time, a small number of staff employed in operational branches, in particular in the ăReferat for Application Management and Maintenance (AMM), poses a significant risk for the continuity of work.
In the second part of 2017, the head of the AMM department routinely held the position of the head of the operational department. the position of head of the Management and Infrastructure Board of the department of the Board of Directors of the department of Management and Infrastructure. In this context, the position of the Board of Directors of Management and Infrastructure held the position of the Management and Infrastructure Board of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors and of the Board of Directors of the Management and Infrastructure Board of the Board of Directors of the Management and Infrastructure Board of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors.
3.26.16.
Framework agreements concluded with relevant consortia for the operation of key information systems include not only ordinary maintenance but also maintenance work, the price of which cannot be calculated on the basis of an advance payment to cover the costs attached to the framework agreements.
The prices for individual companies shall be calculated by the Agency on the basis of a combination of fixed prices and estimates of effort and effort, which allows for appropriate cost control.
In order to determine the prices for development aid, the Agency also addressed the method of transfer of IFP, the standard method based on the price analysis for point services.
The Agency could also use the IFPUG method in other systems.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.26.17.
The Agency has allocated a total of EUR 69.9 million to cover its global commitments to cover additional expenditure related to new tasks and IT systems to be transferred in 2017 but which have not adopted the legal basis by the end of the year (the Eurodac recast and the allocation system in Dublin) or have not yet been adopted (the entry/exit system Regulation of 30 November 2017).
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure related to measures to improve air quality and to cover expenditure related to air quality measures, including expenditure related to air protection and air protection, including energy related costs, protection and environmental protection, including energy related costs, energy related, environmental and environmental protection, including environmental and environmental measures, including environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental and environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental and environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental and environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection.
The information contained in this document is in accordance with this Regulation and is in accordance with the data protection guidelines set out in Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 (OJ L 3, 3.1.2010, p. 3) and Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 (OJ L 3, 3.1.2010, p. 1) (OJ L 3, 3.1.2010, p. 1). (OJ L 3, 3.1.2010, p. 1). (OJ L 3, 3.1.2010, p. 1). (OJ L 3, 3.1.2010, p. 1). (OJ L 3, 3.1.2010, p. 3) (OJ L 3, 30.1.2010, p. 1). (OJ L 3, 30.1.2010, p. 1). (OJ L 3, 30.1.2010, p. 1).
In December 2017, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) submitted to the Commission a report on the control of the procedures for the award of public contracts under eu-LISA (209).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a risk that there is a need for improvement.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of the previous years.
(208) International Function Point Users Group. (209) The farm did not carry out this work.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1).
The Agency has concluded a framework agreement of EUR 2 million for public procurement services provided by the contractor for the training, training and training provided by third parties (training offers).
In 2016, the Agency received and accepted goods worth €2.8 million which did not enter into any legal obligations and obligations.
In 2015 (not controlled by the Agency) In 2015 (not controlled by the Agency) W.T.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/157 EN The Court of Auditors' observations of the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stated in its report of July 2016 that the general structure and practical implementation of the procedures ensures that eu-LISA operates the SIS II, VIS and Eurodac information systems in such a way as to enable national operators using these systems to maintain ongoing and uninterrupted data exchange.
Title II (administrative expenditure) allocates for the following financial year EUR 5 million and 63% (EUR 9 million and 50% respectively) respectively and amounts to EUR 5 million and 63% (in 2015 respectively).
In June 2015, the Agency closed a construction contract worth EUR 21.5 million to cover its routine routine work in Stra§burg.
At one of the meetings of the Agency's Management Board in 2016, the Commission's representative raised the issue of increasing the cost of living.
While increasing costs can be explained e.g. by the continuous development and extended functions of the systems, the Court found that procurement procedures for which the Agency had not verified that the most expensive and most expensive licence could be regarded as procurement procedures.
For example, under the Framework Agreement, the Agency acquired a new software licence of EUR 4.6 million, without verifying that the contractor of the Framework Agreement, the intermediary between the Agency and the potential software supplier, had the best price.
In May 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement with the consortium on the development and maintenance of the Visa Information System (VIS) and on the information system (geographical data transactions) for a period of up to six years.
Year 2016: Year 2016:: Date of closure/start/delay/n.o.
C 434/158 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Court's observations An external evaluation of the Agency has been carried out on behalf of the Commission by December 2015 and the results are presented in the evaluation report.
The evaluators made 64 recommendations for further improvement of operational management, seven of which are considered crucial and eleven are very important.
The Agency has drawn up a implementation plan for recommendations which is currently being implemented in 2016.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/159 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.26.8.
In the case of medium value contracts, the Agency shall regularly publish ex ante notices on its website in accordance with Article 103 (2) of the Financial Regulation.
In December 2017, the Commission presented two proposals for a regulation establishing a framework for interoperability between the EU information systems (borders and visas and police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration).
In addition, the review of the mandate of the Agency (at the recent stages to be adopted) sets out the importance of developing interoperability measures to be adopted, including legislative proposals.
To date, the Agency has introduced its technical knowledge and know-how to the discussion of the High Level Expert Group on Information Systems and Interoperability.
At the same time, a study (which has not yet been completed) has been carried out to obtain a clear picture of the possible architecture of interoperable information systems.
The study also includes a reduction of impacts and a migration and integration plan for interoperability within existing and potentially efficient systems.
The Agency's best estimate is the delays in the implementation of the construction project in Stra§burg.
The transfer of staff to the new B using the B▁przesłanerogebude took place up to hours after the completion of the work.
Construction works in the second building relate to the data center and are still in progress.
In order to provide legal assistance under this construction contract, the Agency has signed a contract with the furthest law firm.
She also recalled that she also offers jobs on the website of the network of EU agencies and on the website of ăEU Training on.
However, Hiefer does not require additional funding to take into account the EPSO language system, under which employment notices must be translated into all EU languages (e.g. the cost of translating the notice into all EU languages is EUR 12 000).
As regards the electronic submission of tenders, this tool could not be used due to technical problems on the platform managed by DG DIGIT of the Commission, and therefore, like other agencies, the Agency was unable to use the platform in 2017.
Once the platform has been stabilised, the Agency intends to use its procurement competence.
3.26.13.
The Agency takes note of these findings and seeks to keep the number of projects out of the schedule and has therefore started implementing measures to improve the planning process (see also section 3.26.16).
According to the key performance indicators of the Agency (point 22) contained in the consolidated annual activity report for 2017 for projects completed using quality, cost and time parameters in relation to cost and time parameters, the actual value of 8,79 % is in the range of 10%.
In addition, in 2017, the project management method was adapted and updated by eu-LISA in order to adapt it to the PRINCE2 strategy and method.
A tool for managing Enterprise project has also been built in order to better report and allocate resources across the Agency.
3.26.14.
The Agency considers that it is in the interests of the Agency to involve external contractors in IT projects (operational and organisational).
This high outsourcing rate is directly linked to Commission Communication COM (2013) 519 on the financial and staff planning of decentralised agencies for the period 2014-2020.
In 2012, the establishment plan did not provide for sufficient posts for the tasks entrusted to it.
Moreover, since 2013, the Agency's mandate has been significantly increased, but has been rejected for additional support and the Agency has had to reduce the number of employees (in total seven posts), as proposed in the Commission's Communication.
In order to ensure the proper distribution of the tasks of the contractor involved in quality assurance, the external support services for the operational management of the Gro services shall not be provided by Gro§.
The Agency is best placed to accept this exceptional situation in which a staff member has had to carry out additional tasks in advance.
This appointment was forced because of the long absence of the Head of Operations has learned to create another vacant post over time.
In order to remedy this situation, the Agency appointed another employee, the head of the "Security of the employee's department, to the head of the "Security' department as Head of the "Security and Infrastructure' department, until, on 1 July 2018, the newly employed driving force gained momentum in this field.
DE C 434/160 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.26.16.
Improvements to the system can only be described in a summary form when the tendering procedure in the framework procedure begins and there is therefore a need to negotiate specific changes as soon as the requirements are known (e.g. when the legal basis of the schemes changes).
In the framework of the review of the procurement strategy, the Agency will address the options of public procurement, including the adoption of the IFPUG method, in order to reduce the dependence on the specific economic operator in terms of development.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) in 2017 contains elements that are relevant for this observation.
3.26.17.
The scenario and the associated risks were already identified in 2016 and included in the estimates of the Agency's revenue and expenditure for 2017 and 2017.
Due to negligence in adopting the legal basis of the new tasks, the Management Board has been informed throughout the year of the dangers and the dangers of adopting major global commitments.
3.26.18.
The Agency shall keep the Member States informed of this fact.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/161 3.27.
EUROPEAN COURT OF COURT COOPERATION AUTHORITY (EUROP. JUDICIAL JUDICIAL) 3.7.1.
By Council Decision 2002/467/JHA[210], a European Judicial Cooperation Body (hereinafter referred to as "Eurojust ') was established, established, established in the Hague, to combat serious organised offences, and established a European Judicial Cooperation Body (hereinafter referred to as "Eurojust') (hereinafter referred to as "Eurojust') established in the Hague.
3.27.2.
The main figures for Eurojust are shown in the table (211).
Table Main figures for the budget of Eurojust in 2017 (million euro) 48 staff on 31 December (1) 242 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Referred to to the Court of the European Parliament and the Council of 30 June 2016 at the Court of Justice
We discussed (a) Eurojust's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (212) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (213) (f) (a) the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts...) §...Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Written accounts Judgment on the compliance of the accounts 3.274.
In our assessment, the annual accounts of Eurojust for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year, the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017.
OJ L 63, 6.3.2002, p. 1.
(211) For more information on Eurojust's capabilities and capabilities, see www.eurojust.europa.eu verfby.
(212) The annual accounts shall include the financial statements, the financial statements, the financial statements, the net accounts, the financial statements and the financial statements.
(213) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as audits.
EN C 434/162 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of income underlying the annual accounts underlying the decision on the legality and regularity of the income underlying the annual accounts 3.27.5. Our assessment shows that the revenue underlying them in the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.27.6.
3.27.7.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY EMPLOYMENT AND JOBS 3.27.8. Eurojust shall publish employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Annex sets out the corrective actions taken in relation to the Court's observations in previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/163 PL ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations in previous years In the Court's report on the financial year 2010, the Court stated that a new definition of the tasks and tasks to be carried out by the Administrative Director and the College of Eurojust should be considered in order to avoid duplication of tasks currently arising from the discharge regulation.
Approximately EUR 6446530 and 40% (EUR 1,6 million and 22% respectively in 2015) of the appropriations for the following financial year were high respectively in Title II (expenditure for...) and... (expenditure for...) and Title II (expenditure for...) and Title II (expenditure for...) respectively in Title II (expenditure for...) in Title II (expenditure for...) in Title II.
This appropriation is intended mainly to cover outside the end of the year and preparatory work for Eurojust (EUR 4 867 482).
2011 2016 The new Eurojust regulation is still being discussed by the legislator... in... in... in... in... in... in... in... in... in............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
DE C 434/164 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Eurojust's reply 3.27.8. The statement that Eurojust EPSO does not use for the recruitment process is correct.
This approach is due to financial constraints as EPSO requires employment notices to be translated into all 24 EU official languages.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/165 3.28.
THE EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY F THE COOPERATION AGENCY IN THE PRE- COOPERATION AREA (EUROPOL) 3.28.1.
The European Union Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) established in the Hague was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of the European Parliament and of the Council (214), which repeals and replaces Council Decision 2009/371/JHA (215).
The Agency's objective is to promote and understand the possibilities and cooperation of the police and other law enforcement authorities of the Member States, and cooperation between them in the field of law enforcement cooperation and the prosecution of serious offences involving two or more Member States, terrorism and terrorism, which are in breach of the common interest which is the subject of Union policy.
3.28.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (216).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 118 total staff at 31 December (1) 804 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff, contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
Powers to the European Parliament and to the Council of Supervision on the Statute of the Court on non-prescription inscriptions in 2016 104 737 Powers on the Goodness of the Court 3.28.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the Agency's annual accounts (217) and the budget implementation reports (218) f of the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the report on which the accounts are based, and, where appropriate, the Agency's annual accounts, the budget implementation accounts (218) f of the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the report on which they are based.
In our assessment, the Agency's financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial statements for 31 December 2017, the Agency's balance sheet and financial position for the year 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasting and cash flows and the net changes for the year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 135, 24.5.2016, p. 53.
OJ L 121, 15.5.2009, p. 37.
(216) More information on the Agency's tasks and tasks can be found on the Agency's website: www.europol.europa.eu.
(217) The financial statements contain financial reviews, financial statements, table of net changes, financial statements, and a summary of rigour, and other changes that have been made.
(218) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure and, where appropriate, in collusion.
C 434/166 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the accounts C 434/166 The effectiveness and regularity of the revenue underlying the C 43 accounts of the European Union of 3.28.5. The revenue underlying it on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.28.6.
3.28.7.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY HOLDING AND EXPERIENCE OF EXPENDITURE 3.28.8. The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
INTERNAL INTERNAL SERVICE REPORTS 3.28.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on public procurement at the European Police Office (... (...) ( (...) (...) (......) (...) (.... (......) (...) (......) (......) (......) (.... (... (............))
Persecution of comments conducted in earlier years 3.28.10.
The annex gives an overview of the changes made on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years. (219) The Court has not carried out this assessment.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/167 PL ANNEX Further monitoring of the Court's observations from previous years As in previous years, Title II (administrative expenditure) in Title II (administrative expenditure) of EUR 3,5 million and 39% (EUR 4,2 million and 41% respectively) in Title II (2015).
This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the host country only in 2017 (2 million euro).
Year 2016 - Implementation status of the discount (completed/dated/dated/dated) n.a. (n.d./n.d./d./n.) (n.d.) (n.d./n.d./n.d./n./n.d.) (n.d./n.d./n.n./n.d./n./n.d.) (n.d.)
DE C 434/168 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.28.8.
Europol employs 220 liaison officers from EU Member States and third countries and organisations.
Europol's common working language is English and the internal language rules of Europol adopted by the Management Board therefore state that, unless otherwise agreed, recruitment procedures will be conducted in English.
Europol shall therefore publish notices of employment in English.
Europol requires an efficient and transparent recruitment process, with 0% free employment at the end of 2017. In 89 recruitment procedures in 2017, with an average of 58 candidates for the competition.
In addition to the English version, translation into the official EU languages is required on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
Due to the large number of job vacancies per year, the translation into the official languages of the EU would entail high costs and would entail a loss of the duration of the procedures.
Europol shall focus on operational budgetary expenditure needs, and therefore, the translation of entries into all EU official languages, including the publication of EPSO, shall take place only at certain budgetary items (e.g. the Executive Director or the Deputy Executive Director).
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/169 3.29.
THE EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY F9/2006R BASIC LAWS (FRA) INTRODUCTION 3.29.1
The Agency for Fundamental Rights of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Vienna was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 168/2007 (220).
3.292.
The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (221).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 23 Total human resources on 31 December (1) 108 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (222) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (223) (f)r, the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the Agency's annual accounts and the accounts for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017, and the financial year ending 31 December 2017.
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall present the Agency's accounts at 31 December 2017, the results thereof and the cash flows and the net changes for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, taking into account its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on the internationally accepted accounting bases at 31 December 2017, and on the net changes for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, taking into account the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer.
OJ L 53, 22.2.2007, p. 1.
(221) More information on the Agency's capabilities and capabilities can be found on the Agency's website www.fra.europa.eu.
(222) The financial statements include financial reviews, cash flow accounts, a table of net changes, as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases as well as other fraud.
(223) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure and shall review expenditure and expenditure forecasts as well as of scaling and scaling.
DE C 434/170 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the financial statements at the basis of the decision to judge own revenue70 on the legal basis and on the regularity of the revenue underlying the financial statements 3.29.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial statements for each of the relevant and legal reasons and financial years ending on 31 December 2017 are the underlying financial statements.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.29.6.
3.29.7.
COMMENTS ON ON THE SUPPLY TO THE ACCOUNTS 3.29.8.
At the agency, the head of the corporate services department is the head of the accounting department.
In 2017, due to unrealistic market blockage, the Agency encountered difficulties in obtaining research.
At least three open invitations to tender failed because the Agency only received tenders of the required quality which significantly exceeded the fixed maximum value of the contract.
3.29.10.
In accordance with the Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should adopt uniform rules on the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties participating in procurement procedures (224) (225) and since those rules apply to Union institutions, the Commission is currently developing general rules on information technology, covering all phases of procurement procedures. The Commission has launched tools on electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents in procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
External Audit Service Reports and External Evaluation Reports 3.29.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service at the Agency addressed the issue of governance and ethics through[222].
3.29.12.
An external evaluation of the functioning of the Agency was carried out in 2017 on behalf of the Commission in 2013-2017 (227).
COMPLIANCE OF THE CARRYING OF THE CARRIAGES BEFORE 3.29.13. The annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of the previous years.
(224) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic management (ăe-Government.).
(225) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) electronic administration (ăe-Government.)
(226) The Court has not examined these preparatory work.
(227) The Court has not examined these non-adding evaluation activities.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/171 PL ANNEX Follow-up of the Court's observations in previous years Family competence (or the continued exercise of the authorising officer's powers) of authorising officers (or authorising officers authorised) is not always in line with the ABAC Workf Low Work commands.
In Title III (operational expenditure), commitments for the following financial year amounted to EUR 5.2 million and 68% (EUR 5.7 million and 70% respectively in 2015).
This is mainly due to the nature of the activities relating to the financing of studies covering several months, and often several months, as well as to the change of the year.
The Agency may decide to introduce separate budgetary measures to better take account of the multi-annual nature of the contracts and the unavoidable discrepancies between contracts, supplies and payments.
Year 2016 Year 2016 Year completed (in progress/present/n.d.) (in progress) Year completed (in progress)
DE C 434/172 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.29.8.
After the restructuring of the Agency, which will be completed by the end of 2018, the accounting officer's position will be subject to the administrative responsibility of the Director and will be subject to direct management (as always).
In order to maintain existing synergies, the audit firm will continue to work closely with the Corporate Services Department.
3.29.9.
All studies were publicly announced and therefore the economic operators concerned could be considered economic operators.
The extensive studies carried out by the FRA are quite unique in the EU, both in relation to the subject matter and in relation to the need to study them in all EU Member States.
Besides, the Agency has limited resources for these activities.
However, in the case of such tenders, the Agency shall, where necessary, consider carrying out market tests and, where necessary, re-evaluate the technical requirements and, where possible, the priorities for the tests to be carried out.
Whether this problem is much easier to solve when more operational expenditure is earmarked for this purpose.
In 2018, the Agency started the implementation of such systems, which will be in force within the time limit set.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/173 3.30.
AGENCY EUROPE AGENCY AGENCY AGENCY GRANCY AND RANCY (FRONTEX) INTRODUCTION 3.30.1.
The European Border and Coast Guard Agency ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Border Agency') ("the Border Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Border Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Border Agency') ("the Border Agency') ("the Border Agency') was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/1624 of the European Parliament and of the Council (the Agency) ("the Border Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency')) and established by Regulation (EU) 2016/1624 of the European Parliament and of the Council ("the Border Agency') ("the Border Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Border and the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') was established by Regulation (the European Parliament and the Council (EU) 2016/1624 (229).
In the framework of the European Maritime Safety Agency programme, the European Maritime Safety Agency has developed operational cooperation at the external borders of the Member States, keeping the name "Frontexext to" and "The statutory seat" in Warsaw, on the basis of the European Maritime Safety Agency of the Member States.
The new delegation regulation extends the Agency's powers and entrusts the Agency with the task of ensuring integrated management of external borders at European level with a view to effective management of external borders.
This includes, in particular, reducing migratory pressures and potential threats at these borders, while at the same time contributing to the fight against serious crime with a cross-border dimension to ensure a high level of internal security in the Union, with full respect for fundamental rights and respect for freedom in this area.
3.30.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (230).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro)....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The latest 2017 employment plan provides for more jobs: 352 jobs for officials and temporary staff and 303 jobs for contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the Agency's annual accounts (231) and the annual budget implementation report (232) (fpo, which ends on 31 December 2017, and (b) the legitimacy and regularity of the Agency's budget and (b) the implementation of the budget implementation budget on 31 December 2017, and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
On the basis of our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall present the Agency's accounts as at 31 December 2017, results, cash flows, net changes as at 31 December 2017 as at 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting rules.
OJ L 251, 16.9.2016, p. 1.
OJ L 349, 25.11.2004, p. 1.
(230) For more information on the Agency's competences and competences, see www.frontex.europa.eu.
(231) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, financial statements, a table of changes in net value, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases and other adjustments.
(232) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of the revenue and expenditure they shall collect as well as of the illusions.
EN C 434/174 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts The judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 330.5. According to our assessment of the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on fairness and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.30.6.
Note 3.307.
The Agency's grant expenditure increased significantly from EUR 123 million for 2016 to EUR 167 million for 2017.
Contrary to previous years, the Agency has not carried out ex post checks on expenditure incurred on grants in 2017.
He considers that ex-ante--ante, ex-ante, ex-ante, ex-ante, ex-ante, ex-ante, ex-ante, ex-ante, ex-ante, ex-ante, ex-ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, exe, exe, exe, exe, exe, ex, exe, ex, exe, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, exe, ex, ex, exe, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex-e, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex-e, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex-e, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, ex
Since 2014, the Court has repeatedly stated that the co-operating countries will often not provide sufficient evidence for the expenditure for which they have invoked it which has been reflected once again in terms of preparation (see paragraphs 3.30.12 to 3.30.13).
3.30.8.
In 2016, the Court recommended the Agency to carry out a detailed analysis to identify the most appropriate financial mechanism (233).
In this context, the Court concludes that, at the end of 2017, the Management Board decided to use unit costs instead of the reimbursement of operating costs.
At the same time, a pilot project was launched in 2018 in order to determine the unit costs for the cooperating countries.
Furthermore, in June 2017, the Administrative Board approved the Agency's new organisational structure, which will apply from 2018, including a new inspection and inspection structure, which will report directly to the Executive Director and the Management Board in order to adapt the existing organisation to the new mandate (see paragraph 3.30.9).
3.30.9.
In the light of the migration crisis faced by the Union, the mandate of the Agency was significantly extended in 2016.
In 2016, the Agency's budget increased by 75% and the 2017 and 2017 budget was again 21% higher than the previous year's budget.
In 2016, the number of employees increased by 18% and 43% compared to the previous year.
Work is still underway to adapt systems and procedures to the new mandate and new conditions.
The following comments do not undermine the Court's opinion and should be read in the light of the challenges the Agency had to address.
COMMENTS ON JUSTICE AND JUSTICE OF INTRODUCTION 3.30.10.
Following an open invitation to tender, the Agency received four offers from Wolfgang Services for CIEF years of migrants in the Greece.
After the selection, three offers were retained and one was excluded.
The only award criterion was the price.
In April 2017, the Agency signed a framework agreement of EUR 2 million for a period of three years with an agricultural company which offered the lowest price.
However, from day to day and day to day, at the end of the year, the customer had difficulty fulfilling the order, so that the agency had completed the task at the end of 2017.
In order to ensure continuity of services, the Agency signed a new framework agreement of EUR 1,8 million with a tenderer who was second in November 2017, which offered the second lowest price.
It sold the terms of the exchange agreement not with the tenderers in the second and third places, but signed a new contract on the basis of the initial offer submitted by the second tenderer.
The direct award of the contract was incompatible with the requirements because the initial award procedure had not been completed and the negotiated procedure concerning the agreement of the terms of the contract, which was to be applied until the new open procedure had been completed, had not been carried out.
No payment was made in 2017 for this replacement order.
3.30.11.
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff shall be engaged only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (234).
In 2017, the Agency employed two employees (2016: 14) at the higher levels of AST.
(233) Special Report No 12/2016 ăApplication of grants by agencies: it is not always appropriate or proven to be effective not always. (234) Article 53 (2) of the Staff Regulations.
Official Journal of the European Union C 434/175 COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
In 2017, the Isl großensndian Guard Agency provided financial support in connection with the use of the plane in Greece.
Before the reimbursement of the expenditure declared by Iceland, the Agency requested invoices for proof of expenditure declared by Iceland.
Although the accounts were never presented, the Agency reimbursed around EUR 440 000.
In this case, ex-ante-e-control was thus ineffective.
3.30.13.
The Agency also co-financed the use of the aircraft used by the Spanish Guardia Civil.
In the absence of supporting documents for the period 2007-2013, the costs declared in the framework of the audit and maintenance were reimbursed by the Agency of EUR 430 000, based on the average cost per hour of flight.
These average costs were calculated on the basis of the costs ceilings used in Vertragen between Spanish veterinarians and private operators in the framework of inspections and maintenance.
There is a risk that high costs have been reimbursed and costs actually incurred.
3:30.14.
Although the Agency has acquired its current B4.ros already in 2014, it still has not prepared a comprehensive contingency plan approved by the Governing Board.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.30.15
The Agency has again cancelled significant appropriations to cover expenditure incurred by participating countries in joint operations in the previous year, i.e. EUR 7,7 million and 16.5% (2016: EUR 5,6 million and 17.6%).
This shows that the co-operating countries have again significantly overestimated the expenditure to be reimbursed by the Agency.
Although the joint actions had to be cancelled in the next two years, in 2017, the Agency transferred EUR 9.6 million from other budget lines to joint actions, which in turn transferred EUR 40.5 million to the next financial year.
The Joint Action represents 69% of total cancelled appropriations (EUR 11,1 million) in 2017 and 46% of total appropriations (EUR 87,6 million) in 2018.
3.30.16.
In 2017, EUR 66,5 million for re-export activities was for recovery, but less for activities than was possible was recommended.
The Agency has therefore paid EUR 13.5 million and EUR 20.3% (EUR 23 million in 2016 and EUR 37.5% in 2016 respectively).
In addition, the Agency paid EUR 4 million from the budget allocated to Title I of the budget (staff expenditure) since in 2017 it was not able to hire as many new staff as it was planned.
3.30.17.
The Agency's original budget for 2017 included EUR 8.8 million for 2017 a mandatory operational financial action to finance immediate cash supplies to secure R's borders and return to R returns (235).
In September and then in October 2017, the Agency paid EUR 1.9 million (total EUR 3.8 million) from the complaint to R.C. to its operational budget in order to finance other activities.
3.30.18.
Following the execution of revenue from other budget lines and the establishment of the amending budget, the appropriations for the amending action amounted to EUR 24,7 million and 8,1% of the original budget respectively.
However, the Agency applied in its entirety R-to R-to finance the standard operations (EUR 8.4 million) and to finance the project of remotely controlled air surveillance systems (Drones, EUR 7 million), worth only EUR 1.1 million.
The estimation and use of outstanding claims for damages is not consistent with the principle of the specialised budget and is detrimental to the transparency of the budget.
COMMENTS ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE BUDGET AND THE EMPLOYMENT 3.30.19. The Agency shall publish notices of employment on its own website and in other media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.30.20.
In accordance with their framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a single system for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in the procurement procedures (236) (237). Consequently, since the Regulation on the EU institutions also applies to this purpose, the Commission is currently drawing up a comprehensive report on information technology covering all stages of the procurement procedure, with the launch of electronic invoicing tools (2010) and the electronic publication of procurement notices in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
In accordance with the information communicated by the Commission by the end of 2017, the Agency has put in place certain e-invoicing procedures and e-procurement procedures. (235) Article 75 (13) of Regulation (236) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 of the e-government (ăe-Government.).
(137) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government.
DE C 434/176 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 CARRYING CARRYING OUT BEFORE 3.30.21.
However, the documents submitted by the cooperating countries as supporting documents concerning the expenditure declared are not always sufficient.
Furthermore, no certification of compliance was required, although recommended in the implementing rules of the EU Financial Regulation (1), for grants that exceed certain ceilings.
Given the large and ever-growing number of grant agreements and the rules on the allocation of expenditure and expenditure to be paid by the Agency, the question arises as to whether a more cost-effective and cost-effective form of financing could be used.
The composition of the associated Schengen countries (Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway) needs to be further calculated to better comply with the rules of law[23].
As regards the ex post payments in Iceland which the Agency carried out in October 2015 in Iceland, it was found in H.he that the total amount of irregular payments was EUR 1,4 million, which involved depreciation of the vessel participating in seven joint operations in the period 2011-2015.
According to Isll, a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a quarter.
Although the Agency has the right to recover irregular payments made over the last five years, the Agency has requested the recovery of only payments made since January 2015 of EUR 0,6 million of H up to EUR 0,6 million.
C 434/178 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN The Court's observations on the Internal Security Fund were established for the period 2014-2020.
It includes two instruments: a financial support instrument for external borders and visas and a financial support instrument for police cooperation amounting to EUR 2.8 billion (external borders and visas) and EUR 1 billion (police cooperation) to invest in a police institution.
Within the framework of the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas, the Commission shall reimburse Member States the cost of purchasing equipment, such as vehicles or ships, as well as operating costs such as fuel or maintenance costs.
The Agency shall also reimburse such costs to participants in joint actions.
There is therefore a risk of double financing [4] which is not taken into account.
These costs include costs ăfix (depreciation and maintenance costs), ă variable costs (30) (general fuel costs) and ă costs related to costs (general costs related to ) related to staff and supply costs (general supply costs and other costs related to supply).
The declared costs are based on practical values and are in line with national standards and therefore the costs are different, which means that all stakeholders are particularly burdensome.
In its Special Report No 12/2016, the Court recommended that the agencies use simplified cost options, where appropriate, in order to avoid such inefficiencies [5].
The Agency's Regulation in force until 5 October 2016 provides for the financing of joint actions in the field of financing joint actions in the framework of joint actions with participating countries.
However, from January to October 2016, the Agency financed national relocation operations of EUR 3.6 million.
These payments are illegal.
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff shall be engaged only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (6).
In 2016, the Agency employed 14 employees in the upper grades of AST.
In Title II (administrative expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) in Title III (operational expenditure) in Title II (administrative expenditure) in Title II (administrative expenditure) in Title 6,4 million EUR and in Title 37% (operational expenditure) in Title III (2015) in Title III (operational expenditure) in Title III (operational expenditure) (EUR 40,2 million and 35% respectively) and Title III (operational expenditure) (EUR 67,3 million and 37% respectively) in Title III (operational expenditure).
The Agency may use separate budgetary resources to better address problems which will inevitably arise between legal obligations, solutions and obligations, as well as payments.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/179 PL Court's observations The Court's commitment cancellation rate of 2015 was EUR 6.4 million and 16% respectively in Title III (operational expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) in Title III (operational expenditure) due to the excessive costs in 2015 which had to be reimbursed to the participating countries in 2016.
Within the extended mandate of the Agency for the revitalisation of revitalisation activities, the Agency's 2016 budget for the revitalisation activities of EUR 63 million has been allocated to revitalisation activities for the EUR million.
However, EUR 23 million and 37.5% of this amount have been paid back to the EU budget, as less planned, less relocation operations have been carried out than planned.
A significant fragmentation of the framework contract procurement procedure of EUR 50 million to charter aircraft and related services to Frontex-R aircraft has contributed to this situation and continues to have a negative impact on the number of operations in favour of the Agency's operations in favour of addressing the Agency.
The tender procedure was initiated in 2016 and was still not initiated by the end of the year.
On 22 December 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 223/2014.
However, cooperation agreements with three partners (legal obligations) (EUR 3.4 million) were only signed between August and November 2016.
In the case of two of these contracts, the commitments from these measures have been exempted For these commitments, the commitment measures have only been taken in October and December 2016.
In addition, the budgetary commitments amounted to EUR 1,2 million and covered only pre-financing.
This approach is contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation on Financial Management and is also fragile in signing agreements on uncertainty on operational cooperation between partners.
The Agency's 2016 establishment plan provides for 275 posts for officials and temporary staff (8). At the end of 2016, posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts as posts.
The Agency regularly encounters problems in recruiting employees with required profiles, partly based on corrective indicators on which the gears rise (66,7%). (closed/closed/closed/closed/not present/n.k.)
(C 434/180 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL Court's observations Due to the extension of its mandate, the number of the Agency's staff will increase from 365 staff in 2016 to 1 000 staff in 2020 to more than double in 2020 [9).
This increase was not based on solid needs.
The Agency, together with the Commission and the host country, is currently exploring the options for resolving this problem.
(OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1).
(2) Article 3 (4) of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 provides for the co-financing of joint actions by the Agency.
Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, laying down general principles and general principles on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 968).
(4) The Court has already contributed in paragraph 39 and paragraph 4 of Special Report No 15/2014 of the External Borders Fund to the increase of the financial resources to increase solidarity in the financial inflow, but the results need to be improved and therefore improved, paying attention to the additional EU added value.
Recommendation 1 of the Court's Special Report No 12/2016 "The use of grants by the agencies: it is not always appropriate or proven to be effective: not always.
(6) Article 53 (2) of the Staff Regulations.
(7) European Support for Asylum (Malta), the International Organisation for Migration (Belgium) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Migration and Migration (General).
(8) In addition, 192 posts have been approved for contract staff and seconded national experts.
(9) Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on European Border Guard and Border Guard and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, Regulation (EC) No 863/2007 and Council Decision 2005/267/EC (COM (2015) 671 final (2015/03101/COD)).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/181 of the AGENCY's replies LEGISLATION AND RULES OF PROCEDURE C 434/181 OF ANSWERS PRESENTED BY THE AGENCIES 3.30.10.
Following a decision by Frontex to terminate the contract, it was necessary to ensure the continuity of the provision of services until a new contractor was selected.
Given the limited market for services in the region (the lowest number of operators), it was considered best to sign a contract for the provision of services with a company which in the original tenders for the selection of sailors on ships would be in second place.
This is therefore not the continuation of the tender procedure already concluded.
The Agency has already established experience in providing health care services to Frontex and has therefore been positive in the offer of F.C.C.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.C.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.C.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A.A
The contractor explained that he was willing to provide services under the same conditions as in the original invitation to tender.
In November 2017, a derogation was signed, under which it was signed......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................,.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Partnership Agreement was signed by both parties in December 2017 and entered into force in January 2018.
The use of the price as the only criterion was carefully checked and was based on the experience of Frontex in the award of public contracts in the last two years for public service contracts under the R evaluation of the absorption activities between the Greek and T islands on T in the last two years.
In order to achieve the objective of the objective of the objective of the programme, the objective of the programme is to achieve the objective of achieving the objective of achieving the objective of achieving the objective of achieving the objective of achieving the objective of achieving the objective of achieving the objective of achieving the objective of achieving the objectives of achieving the objectives of the objectives of the programme, to achieve the objective of achieving the objectives set out in the programme of the programme, in particular to achieve the objectives set out in the programme of the programme, in order to achieve the objective of achieving the objectives of the programme, the objective of achieving the objectives set out in the programme of the programme is to:
The services requested by Frontex are short journeys between the Greek islands and the German islands, between the Greek islands and the islands of the German islands, the purpose of which was to travel back to the island under the agreement of the agreement between the EU and the German island, ensuring that the activities were carried out in a safe environment, while fully respecting fundamental rights.
In accordance with the last sentence of Article 31 (2) of the Staff Regulations (ă In order to take account of the specific needs of the institution, when recruiting officials, the situation on the labour market in the Union may also be taken into account.
This decision was fully in line with the positions (which form part of the budget) and was never suspected from the budget.
Since the year Mtrautz 2017 Frontex has not employed external candidates in higher grades than AST 4.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
The costs of checking/maintaining are defined as the costs of checking/maintaining throughout the lifetime of the measure (...).
The rate based on the data provided by the manufacturer or the maintenance point of the vessel using the product or the data provided by the manufacturer or the maintenance point of the vessel or aircraft using the product.
This means that the hourly rate may be provided by explaining the costs incurred by the beneficiaries, depending on the degree of consumption of the producer or the price determined on the basis of the actual costs incurred in the previous years or on the basis of the costs incurred by the producer, on the basis of the reference data of the means used, where this is a new measure and the extortion data are not available.
Invoices (or equivalent accounting documents) may be provided only if the hourly price is based on the costs actually incurred in the reference year.
However, the person exempted from the obligation to set the hourly rate on the basis of average reference prices, if no invoices were actually issued.
This was the case for the chosen payment, in which Isl case, Isl watchte Frontex, in which, as in the case of fixed maintenance costs, it became clear that Isl's watch in Isl in the state of Kakhtenwache FRONTEX, was held back from fixed costs.
The documents submitted by Isl Isll Wachta K Wachta Isl took into account the results of the ex post controls carried out by the Frontex ex post control team in 2015 during the visit to the maintenance centre in Iceland, while the team introduced documents used by Isl wachta Kache to carry out the calculations.
Therefore, in the document presented by Iceland Frontex, Frontex considered that the approval of the issue should be sufficiently justified.
The total hourly rate for all inspection/maintenance operations carried out by an aircraft with fixed cranes shall be three values of the κρατ maintenance operations for engines: all engines of disease engines and this contract shall be for an amount of H of EUR 9 1010 475,50, but payments shall be based on an hourly amount for engines of engines.
Guardia Civil calculates the Frontex Agency, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, an hourly rate for the maintenance of the engine.
If less time to maintain engines is spent to maintain engines, the total limit will not be reached.
Therefore, in this case, the total value of the contract, but the hourly rate, is not relevant.
DE C 434/182 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2. General maintenance work..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Agency assumes that, after the termination of the contract, the Guardia Civil will pay the total amount specified in the contract.
The price per hour shall be calculated by dividing these total costs by the number of hours of flight.
asked to describe the detailed work carried out by the contractor....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Agency assumes that, after the termination of the contract, Guardia Civil will pay the total amount specified in the contract.
The Agency cannot consider the risk assessment carried out by the Court on the basis of those assessments, as those paid by the Guardia Civil, paid on the basis of the contract at a total price, ultimately correspond to the costs corresponding to those reimbursed on the basis of specific invoices.
The current approach to operational efficiency and strategy and the resulting emergency problems have been developed on the basis of the legal framework and structure that was (already) current by the end of 2016 and subsequently updated by the end of 2016.
Given the extended mandate and the new structure, work in the field, in particular in the field where work is needed is needed, as organisational changes require in particular full implementation for the purposes of the basic project.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.30.15
This challenge involves the possibility of fulfilling commitments in a given year.
In order to avoid the risk of high cancellations, in the fourth quarter of 2016, Frontex asked the interested parties to submit their comments on the final payment in the first half of 2016 and Frontex in the first half of 2016 and to share their current revenue in 2016 (December 2016) or expected revenue (January 2017) in the framework of the operational activities in 2016 in order to avoid the risk of high cancellations in the fourth quarter of 2016.
The main objective of these calls was to identify possible calls for proposals, to limit the relevant SFD allocations, and to re-use these funds by 2016.
Despite some positive results, the financial resources were still incomplete.
Therefore, despite the correct resolution of the actual financial needs, Frontex decided to provide additional funding for the autumn of 2016 as the abolished funds were not in a position to cover the financial needs that had been abandoned at the time.
The Agency has developed a simplified roadmap to be implemented from the operational cycle 2018, which will be applied to growth to a much higher extent from year to year with regard to the burden costs; the Agency will continue to monitor the decommissioning process and will seek to reduce the number of losses incurred.
The main objective of the Agency's repatriation activities has not been achieved: it has provided technical and operational support to the Member States for the implementation of repatriation activities and has provided technical and operational support for the relocation activities of the Member States and has provided specific measures to identify returnees from repatriation, training/training, knowledge exchange among Member States, etc.
In 2017, the number of restructuring activities coordinated by Frontex increased significantly: the number of migrants increased from 10 700 in 2016 to 14 200 in 2017, compared to 47% in the previous year.
This represents 10% of the total number of migrants from the EU to third countries who were forced to do so (in 2014 this figure amounted to 2%).
Recruitment The last part of staff expenditure was generally related to difficulties and difficulties related to the recruitment process and related difficulties: long-term procedures, long-term recruitment, insufficient number of candidates and geographical imbalances due to the low correction rate.
Nevertheless, the Agency considers that, within one year, some 250 new workers have been employed and employed.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/183 3.30.17.
In 2017, the Agency was the first year of implementation of the new ETUC Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 75 (13), the Agency is required to contribute to its budget, to the financing of ad hoc operations (RABIT) and exploratory operations, to the financing of ad hoc operations (RABIT) of 4 % of the operational appropriations provided for in Article 75 (3).
On 1 October each year, at least one quarter of the Ruc suit should be increased to meet the needs of the end of the year.
An operational action was requested to enable the Agency, at any time throughout the year, throughout the year, throughout a certain reserve, to search the reserve at all times to ensure security at the border and to cover the most urgent costs of such rapid intervention.
The European Parliament originally amended the text of the ETUC Regulation proposed by the Commission in order to add that, by 1 October, only a quarter of the RUC lawsuit for the remaining three months of the year must remain admissible for the ETUC Regulation.
The ECHR Regulation is silent about what is to happen to the remaining three quarters of the complaint R of this type after 1 October, which is unclear.
The first solution at the end of September was the financing of well understood operational activities in the air and sea and the purchase of its own aviation security services. The second was the purchase of aviation security services after 1 October.
The Management Board has been informed in its monthly income report.
The Agency is of the opinion that the legislator should ensure transparency in the areas concerned.
An outstanding application for an Unregulated R application for an Unregulated Involuntary Intentional Procedure was already considered in preparation for a Single Programming Document (EPPD) for the years 2017-2019.
In accordance with Article 75 (3) of the EGK Regulation, the preparation of the DPK and the reduction of revenue and expenditure started in year N-2 and ended later in autumn of year N-1.
The ETUC Regulation entered into force in October 2016.
The Agency had to plan its annual work programme for 2017 (under EPPD 2017-2019) throughout 2016, without the final outcome of the work on the ETUC Regulation and thus without a clear legal basis.
At the end of 2016, the EPPD 2017-2019 was already completed and approved by the Governing Board, which fully supported, in the light of the transition to the European Border Guard and Border Guard.
In its opinion on EPPD 2017-2019 (C opinion on EPPD 2017-2019) (C/2016/8722, point 63: ăThe Commission indicated that the contingency plan has become a fundamental principle for the preparation of the annual work programme and that the Agency intends to provide almost 10% of its operational budget for the so-called "operational flexibility for the years ").
In this context, the Commission invites the Agency to establish, within its budget, two separate infringement actions, including the full compliance with Article 75 (13) of the EPC Regulation, and, secondly, to provide the Agency with the possibility of maintaining operational flexibility, in order to assist in the selection of urgent actions. In this context, the Commission invites the Agency to ensure that operational flexibility can be maintained so that it can deal with emergency situations which are not immediate. In this context, the Commission asks the Agency to provide the Agency with...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Since the Agency publishes offers in English and EPSO requests translation into all official EU languages, in the light of numerous job offers, this would mean that costs have increased considerably, which would mean that the recruitment procedure could have deteriorated.
Frontex disseminates information on job vacancies on other jobs, i.e. networks of EU agencies, management, permanent representation, Euroloops and social media.
Once the agreement is signed with the Commission (DG DIGIT), the instrument will be used for the first time.
In accordance with Article 90 (2) of the Public Procurement Directive, which the Commission applies sensibly to the Agency at the end of October 2018, Frontex will comply with that deadline.
DE C 434/184 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under sub-heading 4 of the multiannual financial framework not belonging to the European Union 3.31.
CONSULTATION OF THE CONSULTATION OF NUCLEAR EDUCATION (ETF) INTRODUCTION 3.31.1.
The European Training Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the "Fund") established in Turin was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 (238) (recast of Regulation (EC) No 1339/2008 (239).
The Commission supports this process in the implementation of the various vocational education and training programmes.
3.31.2.
The main figures for the Foundation (240) are presented in the table.
Table Main figures for the Foundation for 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 Total staff at 31 December (1) 125 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
CALLED ON BY THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL ON THE COURT'S PROPERTIES AND ON THE WORDS CALLED BY THE EUROPEAN COURT IN 2016 21 130 RIGHT TO PR. 3.31.3.
We analysed: (a) the Foundation's annual accounts consisting of the Foundation's annual accounts (241) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (242) (f) of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the appropriateness and regularity of the Foundation's financial statements; and (c) Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the Foundation of 31 December 2017 shall, in all relevant respects, provide the Foundation's financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts and its cash flows as well as the net changes as at 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting assumptions.
OJ L 131, 23.5.1990, p. 1.
OJ L 354, 31.12.2008, p. 82.
(240) For more information on the competences and competences of the Foundation, visit the website of the Foundation www.etf.europa.eu.
(241) The annual accounts shall include the financial statements, the financial statements, the financial statements, the table of changes in net value, the financial statements, the financial statements and the summary to be drawn up, in accordance with the accounting principles, and other expropriations.
(242) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, which shall consist of revenue and expenditure forecasts and revenue and expenditure reviews.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/185 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.31.6.
331.7.
INTERNAL INTERNAL SERVICE REPORTs 3.31.8.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report assessing the progress of vocational education and training in the framework of the tumarket process of the Foundation. (243) The Foundation developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a likelihood that there is a need for improvement.
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(243) The Court has not examined these maintenance work not wandered down.
C 434/186 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN OJ C 434/186 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN OJ C 30, 11.1.2018 EN OJ L 30, 11.1.2018, p. 30.
This was a first step towards a cross-cutting assessment of the four agencies, which are, in fact, effective in the areas of employment, social affairs and social inclusion[21].
The evaluators concluded that the significant restructuring of the Foundation has not had a significant negative impact since 2011 and that the internal and external side of the Foundation has mostly been positively assessed, in particular in terms of strategy and effectiveness.
The Foundation's governance structure has been considered effective and effective.
The evaluation also stressed that the Foundation continued to improve in 2011 its... mitigation of changes in the mitigation of changes in the state of protection, but that it needs to further clarify its capabilities and achievements.
The harmonisation and simplification of indicators within a single intervention logic and the use of common terminology throughout the Foundation would contribute to the improvement.
The Foundation has developed a plan to implement the evaluation recommendations.
In its report on the Foundation's 2011 accounts, the Court has already stressed that the Foundation's situation is unsatisfactory and that there is a risk that the Foundation will not be able to continue its experience on a continuous basis.
The situation has not changed since, in 2011, the management of the complex, in which part of the r was not used in the complex itself, was closed, and in 2011 it was closed entirely, and in 2011 it was closed in its entirety, and in its entirety, in its entirety, in its....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Member State where the foundation is established must urgently find a solution to this problem.
The Headquarters Agreement also guarantees also an appropriate one by 2027.
2016 Year 2016 Year 2016 Year (completed/completed/completed (e.g.) 2016 (other agencies to be assessed) is the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin), the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) and the European Centre for Vocational Training (Thessalonics).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/187 FUNCTIONING ANSWERS The Foundation shall take note of the Court's report.
DE C 434/188 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under sub-heading 5 of the multiannual financial framework
EURATOM ADMINISTRATION AGENCY INTRODUCTION 3.32.1.
The Euratom Supply Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) established in Luxembourg was established in 1958[244].
Council Decision 2008/114/EC, Euratom[245] replaced the Agency's previously existing statute.
The main task of the Agency is to ensure the regular supply of nuclear material to EU users, in particular nuclear fuel, in accordance with the principle of equal access to supply sources under the common supply policy.
3.33.2.
From 2008 to 2011, no budget of its own has been allocated to the Agency to finance its activities.
Since 2012, the Commission has made available its own budget to the Agency, but it covers only a small part of the expenditure.
3.32.3.
The table presents the main figures for the Agency (246).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 0,1 Total staff at 31 December (1) 17 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
THE WORDS OF THE UNCERTAINABLE PRESIDENT FOR 2016..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
We have checked (a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (247) and the budget implementation report (248) (f) the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of those annual accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, on all relevant matters, present the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017, for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017 for 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31
(244) OJ L 209, 2.8.1994, p. 1.
OJ L 41, 15.2.2008, p. 15.
(146) More information on the needs and experiences of the Agency can be found on the Agency's website: http://ec.europa.eu/euratom/index.html verf on the Agency's website: http://ec.europa.eu/euratom/index.html.
(247) The financial statements shall include the balance sheet, the balance sheet of financial results, the balance sheet of financial flows, the table of net changes, as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other changes in net value.
(248) The budget implementation reports shall include an overview of revenue and expenditure, an overview of revenue and expenditure forecasts and an overview of revenue and expenditure forecasts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/189 The legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts The statement of legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.32.6 According to our statement of revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, the underlying revenue is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.32.7.
DE C 434/190 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The Agency shall take note of the Court's report.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/191 Self-financing agencies 3.33.
INTRODUCTION 3.33.1.
The Community Plant Variety Office (hereinafter referred to as "the Office of ădas', including ăCPVO in Angers) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 (249).
3.33.2.
The main figures for the Authority are shown in the table (250).
Table Key figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 16 Staff at 31 December (1) 51 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff, contract staff and seconded national experts.
OJ L 343, 22.12.2009, p. 1.
It is necessary to update the statement of expenditure 3.334.
The annual accounts of the Office for the financial year shall be accounts of 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial statements of 31 December 2017, the financial statements of the Office for the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial statements of the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial year 2017, the financial statements of the financial year 2017 for the financial year 2017, the year 31 December 2017, the financial year 2017, the Office for the financial year 2017 for the year 2017 financial year 2017 for the financial year 2017 financial year of the year 2017, the year 2017, the year 2017, the year of the financial year 2017 and 31 December 2017, and 31 December 2017, the year for the financial year the financial statements for the financial year of the Office for the financial year of the financial year 2017 for the financial year of the year of the year of the financial year 2017
OJ L 227, 11974, p. 1. agreement between the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the European Economic Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions on the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, and the European Economic and Social Committee on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union, of the European Union, the European Economic and Social Committee on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union, and the European Social Fund for the Functioning of the European Union, and the European Union and the European Union, of the European Union, and in particular Article 1 thereof.
(250) For more information on the Authority's competences and competences, please visit www.cpvo.europa.eu.
(251) The accounts shall include the balance of expenditure, the balance of financial results, the statement of capital flows, the table of net changes, and a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other corrections.
(252) The budget implementation reports shall include a review of revenue and expenditure and expenditure, as well as of extortion.
DE C 434/192 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Regulating and regulating the revenue underlying the annual accounts Repeal and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Repeal and regulation of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Regulating and regulating the annual annual accounts Regulating the annual revenue and the annual accounts Base of the annual accounts Regulating and regulating the annual accounts underlying the annual accounts
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.33.6.
3.33.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.33.8.
In 2017, procurement and grant procedures were not adequately documented.
In the case of service contracts through low and medium value service contracts in published procurement documents and in the case of low value contracts, in the case of low value service contracts, the Authority has not drawn up evaluation reports in the case of fixed-term service contracts.
Furthermore, the award criteria are not clearly defined.
As regards the award of grants, the risk assessments were inappropriate and the expert reports were not signed.
In accordance with its financial rules (253), the Authority should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures.
By the end of 2017, the Authority has not closed any of these tools.
RECOGNITION OF THE RECOGNITION OF RECOGNITIONS FROM THE FORMER YEARS 3.33.10. The Annex gives an overview of the corrective action taken on the basis of the Court's observations of the previous years.
(253) Article 74 Electronic management (ão-Government in the field of electronic administration)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/193 ANNEX 30.11.2018 Further monitoring of the Court's observations in previous years on the part of payments used by the Office in electronic payments.
The account or its deputy may sign payments by electronic means.
On 31 December 2015, Member States had 240 766 Eu-ro[*] within 90 days.
The Authority has not used all the possibilities provided for in the Financial Regulation to absorb outstanding funds such as execution (2). Title II (administrative expenditure) of EUR 788 540 or 40% (EUR 395 882 and 28% respectively) in 2015, Title II (administrative expenditure).
This appropriation is intended to cover the running costs of renovation of buildings (EUR 284 423), IT projects (EUR 253 483) and costs of work and evaluations (EUR 137 098), the costs of providing services partly in 2017 or are only invoiced this year.
The cancellation rate for 2015 for the following year was also high in Title II at 17% (2015: 20%), indicating the need to improve budgetary planning.
Periodic external evaluations are not required by the Authority's exemption regulation.
Although the Authority or the Commission carried out ad hoc assessments of specific issues, the Authority, in cooperation with the Commission, should seek to order at least every five years an external evaluation, which is most of the other agencies.
DE C 434/194 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS Official Journal of the European Union AMTS 3.33.8.
The Court agrees that the documentation needs to be improved and that the necessary evaluations, evaluations and opinions have been carried out or have been drawn up as part of the relevant procedures.
3.339.
Before the end of the year, the Authority concluded an agreement with the European Commission on the making available of the electronic tender tool.
At that time, there were no entries that would correspond to the terms of use of the tool, nor was there a mandatory use of the tool at that time.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/195 3.34.
The Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property ("the Office of ădas') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority') ("the Authority').
Its original implementing Regulation was last amended by Regulation (EU) 2017/1001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (254).
The main feature of the Office based in Alicante is the registration of EU trade marks and registered Community designs which have legal effect throughout the EU.
3.34.2.
The main figures for the Authority are shown in the table (255).
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 401 Total human resources for 31 December 995 (1) Budget figures for the unforeseen situation.
Since, as referred to in Article 2 (2) (a), 2 (2) (a), 2 (2) (a), 2 (2) (a) and 2 (2) (c) and 2 (2) (a) and 2 (2) (c) and 2 (2) (c) and 2 (2) (c) and 3 (2) (a) and 3 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 in conjunction with Article 2 (1) (d) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and Article 2 (2) (d) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and Article 2 (2) (d) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 (d) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and Article 2 (d) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and Article 2 (d) of Regulation (EU) No 1 (a) and (d) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 (d) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and of Article 2 of Regulation (a) No 1 (a) and (d) (d) of Article 2 (1) (d) of Regulation (EU) of Regulation (d) (EU and (d) of Regulation (d) No 1306/2013 (EU) No 1 (EU) No 1306/2013, as referred to the first subparagraph (EU) of Article 1306/2013 and of Article 2 (2) (EU) No 1306/2013 (d) No 2 of Article 1 of Article 2 of Article 2 (2) (EU) and of Article 2 (1) (c) and of Article 1306/2013 (d) of Article 2 of Article 1306/2013 (d) of Regulation (c) No 1 of Article 3 (EU) (d) (d)) (d) No 1306/2013 (EU) and of Article 3 of Article 1 of Article 3 of Article 1 (d) of Article 3 (d) No 1306/2013 (d) and of Regulation (d) of Article 2 of Regulation (d) No 2 of Regulation (d (1) (d) of Article 2 of Regulation (d) (d) No 1306/2013 (a) (d) of Article 2 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Regulation (d) and 2 of Article 1306/2013 and of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Regulation (d) (d (d) No 1306/2013 (EU) No 1306/2013 (EU)
In our assessment, the Authority's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Authority's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Authority's annual accounts for the year 31 December 2017, the Authority's annual accounts for the year 31 December 2017, the Authority's annual accounts for the year 31 December 2017.
OJ L 154, 16.6.2017, p. 1.
(255) More information on the Authority's competences and competences can be found on the Authority's website https://euipo.europa.eu.
(256) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial statements, a table of changes in net value and a summary of the reasonable accounting bases and other exploitations.
(257) The budget implementation reports shall include budget reviews which provide forecasts of revenue and expenditure as well as extortion.
DE C 434/196 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts The Court of First Instance on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts of the Court of Justice of 31 December 2017 [3].5. According to our assessment, the revenue calculated at 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.34.6.
3.34.7.
In 2017, the Authority cancelled EUR 3,2 million and 15,9% of the appropriations for this purpose for the financial year 2016.
The Authority continued to use the services of the service provider, essentially, at fixed prices (258).
The prices used for each service are based on unit prices (price/day of the person, etc.) established in the framework agreements and on the number of units for which the service is, in a sense, on.
Where the payer assesses the price offers, the Authority shall ensure that unit prices are correctly applied.
3.34.10.
However, in a framework contract procedure of EUR 80 million for general advisory, project advisory and management services, as well as for research, a list of framework contract services has not been drawn up.
With regard to the evaluation of offers, the service descriptions included two business sets, the project management and the programme consisting of several projects.
The framework agreement is a multi-faceted framework agreement in which, in part, a cascade procedure (general project management advice and services) is used and, in part, a re-call to compete (practic and research).
The Authority has previously designated entities, which have been asked to determine the breakdown between the different profiles.
Therefore, the framework agreement and some of the individuals concerned were announced on the basis of unit prices, types of profiles and quality, but not on the basis of the estimated number of units, which is another important element in the calculation of the fixed price.
3.34.11.
For this Framework Agreement, an individual examination of an agreement of EUR 145 447,50 has been carried out, namely the provision of support services, including the provision of services for the implementation of a document management project of EUR 145 447,50, specified at a specified price.
The days of persons required to provide these services shall not be derived from the business services described in the service descriptions or from the description contained in the individual order.
Therefore, the fixed price specified in this individual contract may not be provided from an economic point of view.
3.34.12.
If all conditions relating to the provision of services are not defined when the framework contract is awarded, the framework agreement will be more appropriate for individual applicants who will be again invited to apply for the contract among several contractors of the framework contract.
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION:
(258) See also paragraph 21 of the previous year's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/197 PL 2016 Amending state (completed/completed/completed/n.d.) C 434/197 PL Year 2016 ANNEX Monitoring the Court's observations of previous years The implementation rate of the Authority's budget was low of 89 %, indicating an inaccurate reduction in expenditure in the 2016 budget.
Following the increasing revision of the Regulation on discharge and the financial rules of the Authority, it is becoming increasingly important that the Authority, if necessary, establish a detailed budget, using the amending budget within the budget, as it provides for the mechanisms under which funds are to be allocated under the budget to contribute to CAP R complaints[1) and the corresponding compensation mechanism (2).
In 2014, the Authority launched a tender for a four-year framework agreement for a limited market size of EUR 30 million for consultancy services covering a wide range of areas, including advisory services, project management, general advisory services and research.
However, in some cases the procurement procedure and the procurement procedure were not properly managed.
The objectives and training objectives have not been specifically defined to achieve the objective and objective of reducing the amount of the framework agreement.
Therefore, after just two years and six months, the amount of the framework agreement was fully exhausted.
Moreover, despite the various services and the very various expenditures, no part was used.
The use of parts may encourage smaller enterprises to participate in the procedure in relation to low value issues.
Finally, the price competition was neutralized, and the absorption of the customer was neutralized, given that, on the basis of the framework agreement on the basis of the fixed price framework agreement, the offer of the contract of the customer of the customer was neutralized.
The Authority should endeavour to conclude agreements with several suppliers and, if necessary, call for competition.
The Regulation provides that the necessary translations from the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT) are to be drawn up by the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT), which means that the Office is the Centre's main client.
The Authority is increasingly using internal applications such as linguistic and linguistic memory as well as additional software.
These instruments aim to improve the cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the Authority.
However, from the point of view of the European Union, the current situation can double costs and costs.
2016 Ongoing (4) 2016 Ongoing (1) Article 89 (1) of its financial rules establishes the claim fund R.
(2) Article 139 (4) and (6) of the Block Exemption Regulation provides that the Office for the Protection of the Industrial Property of the Member States, the Office for the Intellectual Property of the Benelux States and any other Office referred to and to be designated by the Member State as a functional part of the trade mark system in the European Union in the framework of the various services and procedures in so far as the budget deficit is not present this year.
(3) In 2017, the implementation rate of the Office's budget was 97%.
(4) See point 3.34.8.
DE C 434/1/98 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT BY THE AUTHORITY'S ACCOUNT ON BUDGET 334.8.
In its Return to the employment contract, which reaches almost 15%, the amount of cancelled revenue of EUR 3.2 million is the lowest of the last 10 years (since 2008).
The Authority shall continue to cooperate with national supervisory authorities to reduce the cancelled results using progress reports on the results and half-yearly audit work, which form an integral part of any new cooperation agreement and which form an integral part of any new cooperation agreement.
There have also been internal enforcement of other activities, such as awareness-raising through coaching, training, information notes and meetings with financial actors.
In addition, by the end of 2017, the Authority expected the level of the cancelled profits to increase by 15%.
The Authority takes note of the Court's observations.
It should be noted at the outset that the scenarios described in the public procurement documents in which the potential application of the Treaty could be used were intended to be clear and renent, as in the case of the other contracts, and that they were not intended to be specifically linked to each specific contract.
As regards the adequacy of the new competition mechanisms and as stated in the Authority's response to the 2016 audit, this concept has already been included in the audit and research framework guidelines that have already been developed.
The Authority compared the added value of this mechanism with the administrative costs incurred and, given the Authority's intensive use of advisory services and project management, concluded that this was not the most effective way of managing these latter types of services.
In view of the fact that the current Framework Agreement by 2020 has a rank, the extension of that mechanism to consultancy services and project management services requires, at this stage, a new call for tenders, which the Authority considers to be inappropriate.
In the existing cascade system, the Authority repeats its response to the audit in 2016 on the application of fixed pricing procedures.
The main reason for this option is that proceedings against the Office before the Spanish labour courts concerning the transfer of workers are unlikely, concerning, inter alia, the use of more detailed rules of ăTime and Means improbable.
In the fixed price procedure (under the cascade system), the Authority has experience in the evaluation of tenders.
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 provides that (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014 and (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014, (EU) No 909/2014 and (EU) No 909/2014.
However, we believe that the Court's doubts can be resolved by other contractual methods than the fixed price, e.g. by means of the procedure ăQuoted Time and Means......., in which in the future the Office could, depending on individual circumstances,... in the future.
The Authority undertakes to provide further information and to document its own resources necessary to carry out tasks relating to services provided at a fixed price before issuing a request for a tender in order to document the Authority's experience before issuing the above-mentioned experience.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/199 3.35.
UNITED INTRODUCTION OF PRELIMINARY PRODUCT (RSB) 3.35.1.
The Single Resolution Committee (hereinafter "the ăder and ăSRB Committee') established in Br.ssel was established by Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 on the Single Resolution Mechanism (the ăSRM Regulation...) (259).
3.35.2.
The Committee is responsible for the management of the Single Resolution Fund (hereinafter referred to as the "Small Restructuring and Resolution Mechanism') within the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Structured Resolution Mechanism (Small Restructuring and Resolution Mechanism).
3.35.
The Committee is in favour of its own budget, which is not part of the EU budget.
3.35.4.
The main figures for the Committee are presented in the table (260).
Table Key figures for the Committee's budget (million euro) Part I (the Committee's administrative budget) Part II (the Fund's budget) 2017 113 6 462 2016 65 11 800 182 Total staff of the Committee on 31 December (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Committee. EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND COUNCIL.
OJ L 225, 30.7.2014, p. 1.
(260) More information on the Committee's competences and competences can be found at www.srb.europa.eu.
(261) The annual accounts shall include a review of the financial results, a financial report, a table of changes in net value, a report summing up the financial ratification and other fraud. (262) The accounts shall include a review of revenue and expenditure and expenditure as well as fraud. (262) The report on the implementation of the budget shall also include a review of revenue and expenditure.
DE C 434/200 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the annual accounts The decision on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.35.7.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.35.8.
Emphasising the Facts 3.35.9.
Without undermining its decisions on the financing decisions referred to in points 3.35.6 to 3.35.8, the Court would stress that, in the case of... in the case of a liability fund, the burden shall be calculated on the basis of the information communicated to the Committee by the credit institutions (and certain investment firms).
The Court has dealt with this information when it comes to the Committee's expenditure, but it has not dealt with this information.
The SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure consistency of information.
Furthermore, the Committee cannot disclose any details of the details of each credit institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, as these calculations are limited and contain confidential information on other credit institutions.
3.35.10.
Administrative complaints or legal proceedings between credit institutions and national resolution authorities and the Committee in connection with proceedings concerning the observations to the Fund and before the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning complaints brought by former shareholders and Gl by Banco Popular Espa.ol, S.A. in connection with the adoption of the resolution concept, the Court closed its position in order to avoid affecting the position of the parties in these proceedings.
For details, see point 8 of the Committee's accounts.
3.35.11.
The following comments do not call into question the Court's opinion on the budget 3.35.12.
The Committee has not ensured timely payment.
Approximately 28% of payments (95% of total payments) to contractors and reimbursement of costs to experts and employees were on a total basis.
COMMENTS ON THE TRANSMISSION OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.35.13.
Article 92 (4) of the SRM Regulation The Court shall report in particular on the conditional obligations arising from the implementation by the Committee, the Council and the Commission of the obligations arising from this Regulation.
In accordance with the order plan included in the annex to the 2017 work programme, the 16th year in which the various services were to be provided, but for the purposes of the above, they were granted only for the purposes of the editorial office, in the case of legal advice, in the case of legal advice, in the case of the case, in the case, in the case, in the case of the..., in the case of the
Moreover, the secured value of the contract was set out in a public procurement plan of EUR 3 million, while the value of the contract of EUR 29 million.
Suggests unpredictable shopping planning.
3.35.15.
Of the legal aid notifications of EUR 29 million, EUR 20 million were granted through eleven negotiated procedures without prior publication.
In addition, two declarations of EUR 3 million for economic and financial evaluation advice and support were also granted under this procedure (as foreseen in the 2016 Annual Work Programme).
The use of these procedures is beneficial for limiting competition.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/201 3.35.16.
The Committee should establish uniform financial rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties participating in procurement procedures (263).
Since the EU institution has committed itself to adopting the relevant provision, the Commission is currently developing comprehensive IT software covering all stages of public procurement. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), for the electronic publication of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and for the electronic submission of tenders (2015). the Committee has not yet had any of these tools by the end of 2017.
3.35.17.
The Committee publishes employment notices on its own website and on social media, but not normally on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations of previous years.
(263) Article 75 of the SRB's financial provisions of 25 March 2015
C 434/202 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 PL ANNEX Follow-up of the Court's observations in previous years The Committee decided in 2015 to judge and conduct internal control.
However, it is still not possible to develop, adopt or implement a number of relevant procedures and controls, including risk management and control strategies, internal control standards, regular evaluation of the proper functioning of the internal control system and anti-fraud strategies.
The Court of Auditors has not yet approved the Committee's invoicing system.
Only 62% (in 2015 67%) and EUR 35 million (in 2015 EUR 15 million) were paid out of the available funds (1).
The appropriations allocated for the following financial year under Title II (administrative expenditure) shall be EUR 3,1 million and 35% (EUR 3,3 million and 70% respectively) of the total commitments under Title II (administrative expenditure).
These cover essentially residence permits issued in 2016 (€1.9 million) and security services provided this year, which have not yet been charged and paid (€0.6 million).
The appropriations allocated for the following financial year in Title III of the budget (operational expenditure) shall be EUR 5.3 million and 66% (EUR 1,6 million and 40% respectively in 2015) of the appropriations respectively.
This mainly applies to services provided by the European Central Bank (€1.9 million), legal services (€1.5 million) and IT services (€1.3 million) to be paid in 2017.
From July to October 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of anti-dumping duty on imports of imports of certain products originating in the People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China and People's Republic of China originating in the People's Republic of China ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China's Republic of China ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') and the People's Republic of China ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China') ("the People's Republic of China ("the People's Republic's Republic's Republic's Republic of China') ("the Republic of China').
In 2016, using a negative interest rate,......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
This decreased the sum of accumulated cumulative assets that may be accumulated.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/203 PL The Court's observations must set out in more detail its recruitment procedures, set clear minimum points to be achieved by the candidates, and set out in detail the tasks and tasks of the members of the selection panel.
In 2016, the deportation rate was 71% and in 2017 71 million euro.
EUR 50 million in 2017
DE C 434/204 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF COMMITTEE 3.35.9
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
Although the SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure that the information is compatible, the SRF pays particular attention to this aspect.
The data shall be reported on the basis of the data provided by the institutions in the previous year and the data contained in the ECB's database.
It should be noted that divergences are signalled to national resolution authorities that are asked to clarify what allowed the SRF to improve the quality of the data in previous cycles.
Furthermore, the Committee cannot disclose the details of the information submitted on the basis of the risk assessment previously submitted to the institutions, since the calculations are limited and therefore disclose confidential information about the other institutions.
However, the SRF revealed the calculation method and detailed calibrations to ensure transparency and cooperation.
3.35.12.
In 2017, the financial team was unable to find experienced staff to ensure the efficient execution of all financial transactions, including accounts, due to unexpectedly high workload, the unfortunate rotation of staff in the financial team, and general difficulties in finding experienced staff.
Since the fourth quarter of 2017, the team has again taken a stand and has taken steps to ensure the timely handling of invoices.
So far, almost 98% of the invoices have been settled in 2018.
Any delay in payment in payments is currently under in-depth examination in order to achieve further improvements in this area.
3.35.14.
In 2016, the SRB f. In 2017, when the Committee was adopted, it was not adopted until the second, most full year of its existence.
No corrective action has yet been carried out and the Agency has had little experience in this area, on the basis of which a public procurement plan could be drawn up.
As a new agency, the SRB had the opportunity to benefit from the various interinstitutional frameworks managed by the European Commission.
In this context, several procurement procedures, which the SRB intended to apply for in 2017, were ultimately unsuccessful.
In 2018, the implementation of the procurement plan will be closely monitored and additional efforts will be made to improve the planning of procurement procedures.
In 2017, SRB used a total of EUR 20 million in H.H.H.H.H. to provide legal advice services in H.H.H.H.H.
Almost all negotiated procedures without prior publication of the contract notice concerned legal disputes (eight out of the ten speeches with a total value of EUR 10.9 million), which did not fall within the scope of Directive 2014/24/EU.
This also includes a large number of disputes which have been brought before the Court of Justice following the first resolution procedure by the SRB.
Therefore, the SRB does not consider that it applies such procedures in a proportionate manner.
As regards the issue of an opinion on the economic and financial evaluation in two of the WZJ and in 2017, the re-launch of the competition proved ineffective and the SRB therefore had to move towards the negotiated procedure.
Due to the subject matter of the contract and the need for confidentiality, the contract award notice has not been published in accordance with the applicable rules.
3.35.16.
The internet access to tender documents shall be available to operators on the SRB's website since its publication and shall be fully integrated into the e-procurement platform since the end of 2017.
In June 2017, the SRB requested the possibility to use the electronic submission of tenders, but the Commission has not yet provided access.
The SRB noted that such publications on EPSO's website do not concern either the quality or the number of applications and are also very costly due to the compulsory translation of the employment notice.
The SRB therefore publishes its notices of employment on its own website and on the EU_CV online and LinkedIn website and informs its stakeholders (central banks, finance ministries, national agencies, other EU agencies and EU agencies).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/205 3.36 EN 30.11.2018 EN 3.36.1 EN
The Translation Centre may be drawn up by Council Regulation (EC) No 2965/94 [9] (hereinafter referred to as the "Centrum ădas," including the ăCdT including (.d.T. Translation Centre. Translation. (...)) established in Luxembourg.
The aim of the Centre is to provide translation services to the institutions and bodies of the European Union using the Centre's services, which can instruct them to carry out their tasks.
3.36.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the centre (265).
Table Key figures for Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) 49 Total staff on 31 December (1) 215 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Centre.
SUPPORT OF THE BUDGET UNDER THE BUDGET OF SUPPORT UNDER THE NON- THE ENFORCEMENT BUDGET IN 2016 51 225 ENCOURAGEMENT OF THE ENFORCEMENTAL LAW 3.363.3.
(a) the Centre's annual report covering the annual accounts ((266) and the budget implementation report (267) f the annual report of 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity underlying this annual report (TFEU) and the implementation of the budget (Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union).
On the basis of our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts at the end of 31 December 2017 shall present the Centre's balance sheet and financial situation, the Centre's financial results and the Centre's cash flow, and the net changes as at 31 December 2017, in accordance with the Centre's financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on international accounting rules.
OJ L 314, 7.12.1994, p. 1.
(265) More information on the Centre's achievements and achievements can be found at www.cdt.europa.eu.
(266) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial situation, capital flows account, net change table, as well as a summary of the supposedly legitimate accounting bases and other changes in the value of the capital.
(267) The budget implementation reports include budget reviews that combine revenue and expenditure forecasts as well as honouring.
DE C 434/206 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The rule of law and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts The judgment on the regularity and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts of the European Union 3.36.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is, in all material respects, lawful and regular.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.36.6.
Note 3.36.7.
The Centre's task is to provide translation services to EU agencies and bodies that are responsible for their functioning and are also responsible for the activities of EU agencies and bodies that may use the Centre's services.
The Regulations on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of most agencies and bodies provide that they will benefit from the Centre's translation services.
Some agencies and institutions (more than the revenue of the Centre) increasingly exploit the opportunities and opportunities at home or other alternatives.
However, this means that the Centre's resources are not used to the full, that there is a duplicate of the development of current systems and costs at European level, and that the business model and continuous functioning of the Centre can be at European level and cannot be unlimited.
In 2017, an external assessment of the adequacy of the Centre's business model was carried out.
The completed evaluation report was not yet adopted when the Court started its work (268).
3.36.8.
COMMENTS ON THE ANSWERS OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.369.
Within the framework of the framework of the Financial Regulation, agencies should establish a single system of electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures (269) (270).
As these objectives also apply to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT application covering all stages of the public procurement process. It launches electronic invoicing tools (2010), also the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders in 2015.
By the end of 2017, the Centre launched electronic invoicing of certain procedures but did not include an electronic invitation to tender and to tender.
This annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(268) The Court has not carried out this assessment not) The Court.
(269) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79. Electronic management (ăe-Government.).
(270) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) Electronic management (ăe-Government.)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/207 PL ANNEX Follow-up action in relation to the Court's observations in previous years The Centre has not yet adopted the crisis action plan and therefore does not introduce internal control standards No 10 (1).
In 2016, the Centre's cash and short-term bank funds increased to EUR 34.2 million (at the end of 2015: EUR 38.3 million). The reserve decreased to EUR 31.1 million (at the end of 2015: EUR 34 million). As a result... (at the end of 2015: EUR 34 million)
In 2015 2015 2015 (closed/closed/expired/completed) In the course of (1) (2) the Centre's internal control standards are based on the relevant standards of the Commission. (.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../...) (2) the Centre's internal control standards.
This trend continued in 2017.
DE C 434/208 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS CENTRE 3.369.
The Commission therefore considers that it is not obliged that there should be no unnecessary unnecessary unnecessary financial commitments.
Such inconsistencies are due to the fact that it is appointed by the Management Board and its position is unlimited.
In order to ensure the independence of the accounting officer, the Director shall be directly subject to the Director of the Centre from 2018 and shall be evaluated by the Director.
3.36.10.
The Centre will use these two instruments developed by the Commission from October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/209 Commission executive agencies 3.37.
EXECUTIVAGENTURE OF EDUCATION, AUDIOVISUAL AND CULTURE (EACEA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1.
The Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency (hereinafter "the Audiovisual Agency') (hereinafter "the Audiovisual Agency') (hereinafter "the Audiovisual Agency') (hereinafter "the Audiovisual Agency') (hereinafter "the Agency') (hereinafter "the Agency') (hereinafter "the Agency') (hereinafter "the Audiovisual Agency') was established by Commission Decision 2013/776/EU (hereinafter "the Audiovisual Agency') and repealing Decision 2009 (hereinafter "the Agency') (hereinafter "the Agency') (hereinafter "the Agency') (hereinafter "the Agency') (hereinafter "the Agency') established by Commission Decision 2013/776/EU (hereinafter "the Commission Implementing Decision').
The Agency shall be responsible for the management of the programmes adopted by the Commission in the field of education, culture and culture and for the detailed management of technical projects.
337.2.
The table presents the main figures for the Agency (273).
Table Key figures for the Agency for 2017 Budget (million euro) 50 total staff at 31 December (1) 436 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE COURT'S PRIVILEGE IN NON-JOINMENT IN 2016 49 442 THE LAW ON THE ACCOUNT OF ACTS 3.373.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (274) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (275) f annual accounts (275) and (b) the legality and legality of the underlying annual accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall present the Agency's accounts as of 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts as of 31 December 2017, the results of the Agency's forecasts and cash flows, net changes for the financial year.
OJ L 343, 19.12.2013, p. 46.
OJ L 101, 21.4.2009, p. 26.
(273) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.eacea.ec.europa.eu.
(274) The financial statements include an overview of the financial results, a cash flow account, a table of net changes, and a summary of the known accounting bases and other changes in net value.
(275) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of aggregate revenue and expenditure and extortion.
EN C 434/210 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and integrity of the annual accounts The revenue on which the annual accounts are based is subject to legal assessment and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts.3.37.5. The revenue on which the annual accounts are based are based on all relevant aspects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts 3.37.6.
3.37.7.
COMMENTS ON THE IMPROVEMENT OF ACCOUNTS 3.37.8.
The head of the financial, financial and programming departments shall be the head of the Agency's accounting and accounting departments.
Implementing agencies should establish uniform rules in the Financial Regulation for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (276). Since this requirement also applies to the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an IT-wide package covering all stages of the award of public contracts, and has in this way launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
EXTERNAL REPORT OF THE AUDIT SERVICE 3.37.10.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented reports on the management of the recovery orders for public procurement (including for the protection of competition money) and recovery orders in the context of the Commission's orders and of phase 1 of the management of financial assistance for the Erasmus+ and Creative Europe programmes (277).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where improvements are likely to be needed.
(276) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) electronic administration (ăe-Government.) (277) The Court has not analysed this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/211 EN ANNEX Follow-up of the Court's observations of previous years 2016
In Title III (the Agency's operational assistance), the rate of appropriations taken (EUR 2,3 million and EUR 47 million respectively in 2015 (EUR 2.8 million and 50% in 2015 respectively) was high.
This appropriation is intended to cover, in particular, current budget analyses of projects (EUR 0.8 million) and IT services (EUR 0.9 million) contracted in 2016, which have not yet been cleared by the end of 2016, or which have not yet been completed in 2017.
Year 2016 Year 2016 Correction date (completed/completed/ pending/n.d.)
DE C 434/212 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.37.8. The Agency considers that its accounting officer has a high degree of independence.
Following the appointment by the Steering Committee and by the Supervisory Committee in connection with the appointment of the Supervisory Committee in connection with the function, it should be noted that the accounting officer of the EACEA as seconded by the Commission as seconded Commission Delegated Officer is, therefore, far more independent of the on-the-spot staff.
Thanks to this constellation, the seconded accounting officer is part of DG Migration's organisational structure, in our case DG EAC.
The Agency will examine the Court's observations in order to take account of the possible actions of other EU agencies or of the Commission's organisational guidelines.
As the agency's highest quality level is gaining momentum, the matter will be brought to the attention of the potential director.
3.37.9.
The Agency is closely following the Commission's e-procurement proposal.
In July 2018, the Commission intends to launch the e-tendering procedure to include the e-submission procedure.
3.37.10.
Both measures were sent to the internal audit service and were adopted by them.
It should be noted that all planned actions have already been analysed.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/213 3.38.
INTRODUCTION 3.38.1.
The Executive Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency').
Their main task is, in close cooperation with the Commission's seven Directorates-General, to manage the EU's research and innovation activities, the competitiveness of SMEs, environment and climate policy and maritime and fisheries policy.
338.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (279).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 43 total personal data at 31 December (1) 434 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
The European Parliament and the Council have proposed to the European Parliament and to the Council a participative on the participation of the Court on the allocation of the relevant characteristics on the basis of a tool not included in the participation in 2016 36 417 of the regulation 3.38.3.
We have examined (a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the annual accounts (280) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (281) f for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the correctness and order on which the annual accounts and accounts on which the accounts are based are based, and (c) §... Art. 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the results of its forecasts, cash flows and net changes for the public sector for the year ending 31 December 2017, taking into account its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer and based on the international accounting bases.
OJ L 341, 18.12.2013, p. 73.
(279) For more information on the Agency's tasks and tasks, visit the Agency's website: www.ec.europa.eu/easme/ verf on the Agency's website: www.ec.europa.eu/easme.
(280) The financial statements include an overview of the financial, financial, financial, financial, financial, financial, net value changes, as well as an overview of the alleged accounting bases and other changes in intangible assets.
(281) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews which summarise revenue and expenditure forecasts as well as expenditure corrections.
EN C 434/214 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The rule of law and the legal order of revenue on which the annual accounts are based give an opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue on which the annual accounts are based.3.38.5. According to our assessment, the revenue on which the accounts are based is justified and correct in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.38.6.
3.38.7.
COMMENTS ON THE TAKE-UP OF THE Accounts 3:38.8.
As part of this year's review of the EU agencies, the Court examined the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and non-conformity of accounting, as well as the aspect of the timely (new) approval of invoicing systems.
The head of the financial department of the Agency shall be the head of the financial department.
The Court therefore considers that it is necessary for the Court to clarify that it is optional, directly subordinate to the Director (administrative evidence) and the Steering Committee (functional evidence) of the Agency.
3.88.9.
In addition, the mandate of the Agency was substantially extended in 2014: it currently manages the EU's activities in various fields in cooperation with the seven Commission Directorates-General.
Despite significant changes in the Agency's procedures and a significant increase in the budget and staff, in 2012 the invoicing system re-validated in 2012.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, implementing agencies should establish uniform rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in the procurement procedures (282). In view of the fact that in respect of EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT network covering all stages of the procurement procedure, including tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the submission of tenders in electronic form (2015).
External Reporting of Audit Service 3.38.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented reports on the implementation of the COSME programme (Competitiveness Programme for Enterprises and Small and Medium Enterprises) of the Agency and the administrative procedures of the Agency's staff department[283].
The Agency has drawn up action plans to take corrective action in areas where there is a likelihood of a need for improvement.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations of the previous years. (282) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the electronic administration.
(283) The farm did not carry out this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/215 PL ANNEX Following the Court's observations in previous years, the commitment rate for the following financial year was EUR 1 250 000 and 33% (EUR 998 324 and EUR 14 % respectively) and EUR 2 550 000 and EUR 62 % (EUR 4 million and 65% respectively) in Title III (the Agency's operating aid) and in Title III (the Agency's operating aid) respectively, EUR 2 550 000 and EUR 62 % (EUR 4 million and 65% respectively in 2015).
Title II mainly referred to rent (EUR 0.6 million) and to the purchase of equipment which had not yet been delivered by the end of the year (EUR 0.5 million).
The expenditure related to Title III concerned the evaluation and monitoring of the LIFE Programme by external experts (EUR 1,5 million), ex post reviews (EUR 0,5 million) and IT services (EUR 0,5 million), which were commissioned in 2016 and which were not yet cleared at the end of the year.
The Agency may attract separate budgetary measures to better reflect the multifaceted nature of the measures and the inevitable divergences between contracts, supplies and payments.
The high rate of cancellation of the previous year under Title I (staff expenditure) of EUR 32000 and EUR 8.3% indicates that expenditure of this amount is insufficient.
Year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year in which the correction was completed: year, year in which the correction was completed: year, year 2016: year, year, year 2016: year: year, year in which the correction was completed: year, year 2016: year, year, year in which correction: year 2016: year, year: year in which the correction was completed: year, year, year, year: year, year, year: year, year: year, year 2016: year, year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016: year 2016
DE C 434/216 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.38.8.
The Agency considers that its internal control system provides reasonable assurance as to the effective separation of the accounting officer's responsibilities and independence.
The Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation.
The Steering Committee shall adopt an earlier and final invoice, an administrative budget and any other amendments.
The Director shall approve the main services provided by the auditor.
The Agency considers that the change in the current structure, which should be reporting and organisation, would not have a decisive impact on the risk and control of the financing of accounts.
However, the Agency will closely monitor the situation and, if necessary, adapt the organisational requirements and reporting requirements.
3.38.9. The clearing team started approving clearing systems in December 2017 and completed them in 2018.
3.38.10.
Since 2013, in the field of procurement, the Agency has introduced an electronic invoice for certain IT providers, including for the full electronic processing and automated interface for the processing of ABAC data.
Since 2018, electronic invoicing will continue to be developed and gradually applied to other suppliers, depending on their infrastructure and electronic equipment.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/217 3.39.
European Research Council Executive Agency (ERCEA) INTRODUCTION 339.1
The Executive Agency of the European Research Council ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency')') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency')') ("the Agency')') having its seat in Br.
The Agency was established during the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017 to manage the specific programme ăIdeen under the Seventh Framework Programme for Research.
By Council Decision 2013/743/EU[285], the Agency has been identified as the managing authority responsible for all administrative and practical aspects of the implementation of the Horizon 2020 research programme and, within the framework of the specific objective of the ăStudy of frontier research, is responsible for the activities of the European Research Council... in Part I of the ăExcellent scientific base (286).
3.392.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (287).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 47 Total staff at 31 December (1) 477 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff, contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
INTRODUCTION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL TO THE FOLLOWING INFLUENCE INFLUENTION IN 2016 43 461 RIGHT TO ACT 3.39.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (288) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (289) as of 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and legality of the underlying accounts for the implementation of the budget, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year of 31 December 2017, the annual accounts of the Agency for the year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the Agency for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the Agency for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the Agency for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the Agency for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the Agency for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the Agency for the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the accounts of the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial statements of the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial statements of the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial statements of the financial year 31 December 2017, the financial year 2017, the financial statements of the year of 31 December 2017, the financial year 2017, the financial year of financial year 31 December 2017, the year of the year of the year of the year 2017, the year of the financial year of the year of the year of 31 December 2017, the year of the year 2017, the financial year of the year for the year of the year of the year of the financial year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the financial year of the year of the financial year of the financial year concerned, the year of the financial year of the financial year of the financial year concerned, the financial year of the year of the year of the financial year concerned, the year concerned, the financial year concerned, the year of the year of the year concerned, the year of the financial year of the year concerned
OJ L 9, 12.1.2008, p. 15.
(285) OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671.
(286) Implementation period 2014-2020.
(287) More information on the Agency's competences and competences can be found on the Agency's website www.erc.europa.eu.
(288) The financial statements include an overview of the financial situation, financial results, the cash flow account, the net change table, as well as a summary of which are considered justified, as well as other cases of net change.
(289) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure, as well as depreciation.
EN C 434/218 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legislation and the order of revenue on which the annual accounts are based is based on the assessment of revenue on the basis of the law and the order of revenue on the basis of the annual accounts of 3.39.5. In accordance with our assessment, revenue on the basis of the annual accounts on 31 December 2017 is in all material respects, justified and correct.
Payments Statement on the correctness and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.39.6.
3.39.7.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in public procurement procedures (290).
They have created tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and electronic submission of tenders (2015). By the end of 2017, the Agency introduced an electronic invitation to tender and electronic invoices for the submission of tenders.
INTERNAL INTERNAL SERVICE REPORTs 3.39.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented an evaluation report on the procedures for the closure of FP7 projects (291) (292).
This annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years.
(290) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government (ăe-Government-Government.)
(291) The 7th EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development.
(292) The Court has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/219 PL ANNEX Further follow-up of the Court's observations of previous years Tender and evaluation reports drawn up by the Procurement Committee and the Agency's Employment Committee do not provide a complete and practical picture of the procedures actually applied.
Unsatisfactory reports affect the transparency of these procedures.
In its September 2016 review report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency has undertaken a number of strategic and operational actions to improve the recruitment, engagement and allocation of its staff.
In this context, the IAS concluded that the Agency has developed and implemented appropriate human resources management to enable it to employ competent and committed staff to achieve their objectives.
Although no critical or particularly serious problems have been identified, the Agency and the IAS have agreed on an action plan to further improve this procedure in certain areas.
Title III (operational expenditure) of Title III (total operational expenditure) of Title III of Title III (operational expenditure) continues to be recorded on an annual basis on an annual basis of the year. Title III (operational expenditure) of Title III (operational expenditure) on an annual basis.
The high revenue ratio is contrary to the principle of budgetary proportionality.
Year 2016 2016 Date of correction (completed/completed/completed/n.a.)
DE C 434/220 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 AGENCIES' REPLY 3.39.8. Currently, electronic submission of tenders is limited to open procedures (the threshold value is set out in the Public Procurement Directive of EUR 135 000 in 2017).
Since the Agency did not initiate such a procedure in 2017 and there will not be such a procedure in 2018, the Agency was not in a position in 2017 to initiate the electronic submission of tenders in 2017.
In addition, the use of electronic tenders will become mandatory in line with the Commission Action Plan at the end of 2018 by the EU institutions and agencies.
Therefore, the entry into force process started in 2018 and the Agency will be able to use the electronic submission of tenders before the end of the year.
In the case of negotiated procedures, the Agency will use electronic submission of tenders after inclusion of this option in the module by the Commission.
3.39.9.
In accordance with the Action Plan drawn up by the Agency and approved by the IAS with regard to IAS to the completion of FP7 projects with regard to the ERC and on 9 April 2018 with regard to the follow-up to the Internal Audit Service (IAS).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/221 3.40.
EXECUTIVAGENTURE OF INNOVATION OFGENERATIONGENATION AND INNOVATION NETWORK (INEA) INTRODUCTION 3.40.1.
The Innovation and Network Executive Agency (INEA) (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency') established in Br in Brussels was established by Commission Decision 2013/801/EU[293) which replaces and succeeds the Trans-European Transport Network Executive Agency (the Trans-European Transport Network Executive Agency and is its legal successor).
The Agency was established between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2024 to manage Union action in the field of Fazilit ăConnecting Europe in the framework of the F programme in the field of research and innovation ă Horizon 2020 in the framework of Horizon 2020 in the field of the trans-European transport network and Marco Polo programme.
3.40.2.
The main figures for the Agency are presented in the table (294).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 24 Total staff on 31 December (1) 249 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency.
Council Decision 2008/513/JHA of 13 June 2008 on the establishment of the European Anti-Fraud Council (OLAF) (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 1).
We have examined (a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (295) and the accounts for the implementation of the budget (296) f of the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and legality of the underlying annual accounts. § Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In accordance with our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, present the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 31 December 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year 2017, for the annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial statements of the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial statements of the Agency, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial statements, for the financial statements of the financial year 2017, for the financial year 2017, for the financial statements, financial statements for the financial year, for the financial statements for the financial year.
OJ L 352, 24.12.2013, p. 65.
(294) For more information on the Agency's responsibilities and responsibilities, visit the Agency's website www.ec.europa.eu/inea verf.
(295) The annual accounts shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial financial statements, a table of changes in net values, as well as a summary of the reasonable accounting bases as well as other changes in net values.
(296) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as reviews of revenue and expenditure.
EN C 434/222 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and legal order of revenue underlying the annual accounts and underlying the annual accounts Legal and revenue order underlying the annual accounts Budgetary statement and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Legal and regularity of the statement of revenue Regularity of the financial statements Legal and regularity of the financial statements Legal and regularity of the financial statements Regularity and regularity of the financial statements We estimate that the revenue underlying the financial statements in the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 are justified and correct in all material respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.40.6.
3.40.7.
The following comments did not call into question the Court's opinion on budgetary management and efficiency 3.40.8.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should adopt a single Regulation on electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures (297).
Given that this requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing all IT, which covers all stages of the award of public contracts.
The Commission has launched e-invoicing tools (2010), e-publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). The Agency has introduced some electronic invoicing procedures by the end of 2017 but has not launched an electronic invitation to tender and electronic submission of tenders.
External Audit Service Reports 3.40.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the management of the Phase 2 grants in 2017.
The Agency has drawn up an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a risk that there will be a need for corrective action in relation to corrective action taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(297) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) e-government.
(298) The Court has not carried out these work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/223 PL ANNEX Follow-up of the Court's observations from previous years As regards Title III of the appropriations foreseen for the following financial year, EUR 0.5 million and 48%, respectively (2015: EUR 0.5 million and 51%).
Year 2016: End date/end date/end date/n.d. (n.d.) (n.d.) (n.d./n.d.) (n.d./n.d.) (n.d./n.d./n.d.) (n.d./n.d/n.) (n.d./n.d./n.n./n.d.) (n.d./n.d.) (n.d./n/n.d.) (n.d./n.n.n./n.n.n./n.d./n.)
DE C 434/224 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.40.8.
By the end of 2017, the Agency introduced electronic invoicing of certain procedures.
An electronic transaction and submission of tenders have not been carried out as they do not concern the Agency.
The award of a contract shall cover only low value contracts or existing framework contracts managed by the services of the European Commission.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/225 3.41.
INTRODUCTION 3.41.1.
The Agency ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') ("the Agency') was established by Commission Decision 2008/46/EC (299).
The Agency has been established for a limited period (1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017) and aims to manage specific Union activities in the field of research.
On 15 June 2009, the European Commission officially granted administrative and operational autonomy to the Agency.
On 13 December 2013, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, which lays down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p.) and Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
3.41.2.
The table below shows the main figures for the Agency (301).
Table Key figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 67 total staff at 31 December (2) 693 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
2. This staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT ON THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE COURT OF AUTHORITIES ON THE CHARACTERISTICS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE COURT ON THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE THE AUTHORITIES NOT GRANTED IN 2016 63 628 RIGHT TO RIGHT TO THE COURT'S CHARACTERISTICS 3.41.3.
We have prepared: (a) the Agency's annual accounts covering the annual accounts (302) and the budget implementation reports (303) f: the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the Agency's annual accounts (302) and the budget implementation report (303) f) and (b) the legal report and order.
The Commission therefore concludes that it concludes that the Commission did not fulfil any obligation with which it could not reconcile the causal link with the granting of the State aid because it could not demonstrate that State aid could not be granted to any of the companies because it could demonstrate that the State aid could not be considered compatible with the internal market because it could not be considered compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (d) TFEU with the internal market.
The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 shall, in all material respects, include the Agency's accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017 and the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2017, and the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year 2017, the financial statements for the financial year.
OJ L 11, 15.1.2008, p. 9.
(300) OJ L 6, 6.1.2002, p. 1.
(301) More information on the Agency's tasks and tasks can be found on the Agency's website www.ec.europa.eu/rea verf.
(302) The annual accounts shall include financial reviews, financial statements, a table of net changes, as well as a summary of the alleged accounting bases, as well as other changes in net values.
(303) The budget implementation reports shall include surveys of revenue and expenditure, as well as extortion.
EN C 434/226 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the underlying annual accounts Preliminary revenue The judgment on the legality and regularity of the underlying revenue of the annual accounts of the European Union 3.41.5 As of our assessment, partial revenue for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Judgment of 3 July 2006 on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.41.6.
341.7.
The following comments do not undermine the Court's view.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.41.8
The selection process for contract staff shows shortcomings.
Recruitment records and minutes of meetings of the recruitment committee do not always contain the criteria applicable to the selection of candidates from the recruitment database (304).
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish uniform rules for electronic storage and electronic data exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures (305).
Given that this requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing complete IT software covering all stages of public procurement procedures. The Commission has launched electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of procurement documents in the online version of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders in 2015.
INTERNAL INTERNAL SERVICE REPORTS 3.41.10.
In May 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a report on the implementation of FP7 projects under the REA (306).
The Agency has developed an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a likelihood that there is a need for improvement.
The Annex gives an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years.
(304) In addition, references are made to the 2016 human resources management report of the Agency presented by the Commission's internal audit services.
(305) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) of the electronic administration (ăe-Government-Government.)
(306) The farm has not examined this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/227 PL ANNEX Follow-up of the Court's observations from previous years In its assessment report of December 2016, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the management of the Agency's staff is fully appropriate.
The Agency and IAS have agreed on a corrective action plan with regard to the findings of the report.
In another implementation report of May 2016, the IAS concluded that the Agency, in cooperation with the Commission, established an effective internal control system for the management of the grants provided for in Horizon 2020.
The Agency and the IAS have agreed jointly with the Commission on a corrective action plan with regard to a finding which is considered to be very important.
For the Commission, the Agency's results have been evaluated externally in 2012-2015, which was presented in May 2016 in the final report.
The evaluation shows that the Agency has carried out its tasks in an efficient, efficient and costly manner over the period considered, that its tasks in the Commission and in the Commission's recommendations remain of paramount importance and that the Commission's management of the operational tasks at the Agency has been successful.
However, the evaluators considered that there was even greater efficiency and efficiency and the Agency and the Commission were asked to improve internal dialogue and cooperation, communication and certain aspects of IT and human resources management.
The Agency and the Commission agreed on a corrective action plan for the period 2007-2013.
DE C 434/228 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY 3.41.9
In 2016, a decision was taken on adoption. In 2016 the decision was taken on the adoption of the relevant recruitment process, in which deficiencies were identified. In 2016 a reserve list was drawn up and adopted, which was used in 2017 to present a job offer.
The selection process of the contract staff of REA f for 2016 has been reviewed and implemented in 2017 in accordance with the IAS 2016 Recommendation.
The draft selection procedure for contract staff more broadly reflects the requirements for the selection criteria for workers for most of the more and more of the higher number of contract staff, and also the criteria for living and living, as well as the implementation and criteria for selection of entry.
The search criteria used by the selection authorities shall be documented in their logs.
The shortcomings in the amended procedure have therefore already been resolved.
In the field of procurement, the REA shall be based on service contracts with the Commission or on Commission framework agreements.
The REA shall not, as a last resort, initiate a procurement procedure, unless there is a specific need in this case, which is not covered by those agreements or agreements or agreements or agreements or agreements or agreements.
In 2017, REA carried out only one low-value procurement procedure.
The current tools for electronic calls for tender and tender are only available for public procurement, and the scope of which is above the threshold of EUR 144 000. Since the REA has not so far initiated a procurement procedure, the scope of which was above that threshold, it was not able in 2017 to use the tools for electronic calls for tender and electronic tender.
In addition, the introduction of an electronic call for tenders and electronic tenders is mandatory by the end of 2018 for all EU institutions and agencies and the implementation process has therefore only begun in 2018.
The Agency shall already benefit from electronic invoicing and, in the event of the opening of the tendering procedure, shall also apply the calls for electronic tenders and the submission of electronic tenders in the tendering procedure as soon as those modules also include medium and low value tender procedures.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/229 3.42.
EXECUTIVAGENTURES F nützR CONSUMERS, HEALTH, AGRICULTURE AND FOODS (CHAFEA) INTRODUCTION 3.42.1.
The Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established on 1 January 2005 (2005-2008: Executive Agency for Health and Consumers (PHEA), 2008-2013: Executive Agency for Health and Consumers (EAHC), from 1 January 2014: Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food (307).
The Agency shall be established in Luxembourg and its mandate shall be lost until 31 December 2024.
The Agency shall implement a Community action programme on health, consumer health and Better Training for Safer Food and Better Training for Safer Food.
3.4.2.2.
The table sets out the main figures for the Agency (308).
Table Key figures for the Agency's 2017 budget (million euro) 10 at 31 December (1) 61 (1) Staff shall include officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
We have analysed (a) the Agency's annual accounts, including the Agency's annual accounts (309) and the budget implementation report (310) (f) and (b) the Agency's annual accounts, including the Agency's annual accounts (309) and the budget implementation accounts (310) (fa), (c) the Agency's annual accounts, and the Agency's annual accounts are correct and correct, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
As regards the conformity of accounts, the conformity of the accounts with regard to the accounts of 3.42.4. with regard to the accounts referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) (i) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 4 (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, and in Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 with regard to the compliance referred to in Article 4 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 4 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 4 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 2 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 4 (2) (a) and (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013.
(307) Commission Decision 2013/770/EU
(308) For more information on the Agency's competences and competences, see the Agency's website: http://ec.europa.eu/chafea/ verf, http://ec.europa.eu/chafea.
(309) The financial statements shall include an overview of the financial situation, financial results, the cash flow account, the net change table, and a summary of the routine accounting bases and other results.
(310) The budget implementation reports shall include reviews of revenue and expenditure as well as reviews of revenue and expenditure.
EN C 434/230 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts The opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.42.5 According to our assessment, the revenue underlying it on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all relevant respects.
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.42.6.
Pointing out the facts 3.42.7.
Since the end of November 2017, the agency's anecdotes have been absent.
On 13 December 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 1309/2013. the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 1309/2013 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, the placing of plant protection products on the market and the placing of plant protection products on the market, the placing of plant protection products on the market, the placing on the market, the placing on the market and the placing on the market of plant protection products and the placing on the market of plant protection products on the market, the placing on the market and the placing on the market of plant protection products on the market, the placing on the market and the placing on the market of plant protection products on the market, and the placing of plant protection products on the market, and the placing on the market of plant and the placing on the market of plant protection products on the market, and placing on the market of plant protection products.
This is contrary to Article 28 of the Agency's financial rules, which provides that the authorising officer and the authorising officer have separate functions and that their choice is contrary to Article 28.
3.42.8.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.42.9.
In 2017, the Agency inadequately documented the recruitment procedures.
Therefore, the grounds for transparency and equal treatment of candidates can be undermined.
In 2017, the Agency encountered difficulties in obtaining a sufficient number of tenderers in low and medium-value procurement procedures.
She received only one offer in each of these procedures.
3.42.11.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, implementing agencies should establish uniform rules for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (311).
3.42/12
The Agency publishes employment notices for temporary staff on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This provides transparency and publication on its website, and allows citizens to familiarise themselves with employment notices on the various European institutions and agencies.
The Agency's budget is weak. Title III of the budget allocated EUR 1.6 million and 63% respectively (in 2016 EUR 1.2 million and 48% of the budget respectively) for 2018 (in 2017).
EXTENDION OF COMMENTS FROM THE YEARS AGO 3.42.14.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective actions taken in response to the Court's observations in previous years. (111) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 (2) electronic management (ăe-Government)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/231 PL ANNEX Further monitoring of the Court's observations from previous years The Agency cancelled EUR 0,2 million and 18% of the 2015 appropriations (EUR 0,1 million and EUR 14% respectively in 2014), indicating that.
The Agency transferred EUR 1,1 million and 48% (EUR 0,9 million and 52% respectively in 2015) of Title III appropriations (expenditure related to...) to the following financial year.
This appropriation is intended primarily to cover IT services and other commissioned research but not completed or completed before the end of the year.
The Agency cancelled EUR 0.2 million and 17% of 2015 appropriations for 2016, indicating unnecessary needs planning.
Year 2015 2016 Correction status (completed/completed/completed/incompleted/n.d.)
DE C 434/232 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWERS OF THE AGENCY FACTS DE C 434/232 The annual report was drawn up and signed by the designated and re-functioning authorising officer.
3.42.9 The Agency takes note of the Court's observations that the recruitment documentation examined by the Court has not been adequately documented.
However, CHAFEA assured that no candidate was preferred under this selection procedure, as all candidates were treated in the same way.
3.42/10.
For these two low- and medium-value activities, CHAFEA has undergone all activities recommended in the Financial Regulation: the ex ante notification took place in accordance with the requirements, and the number of candidates has been invited to submit the offer, and all candidates have gained extensive experience in the procurement procedures and services.
In view of the time granted to the tenderers for the submission of the tender, the CHAFEA complied with the Vademecum in DG BUDGET f of the Public Procurement War.
CHAFEA is currently testing several IT modules for electronic procurement, including electronic submission of offers.
The first invitation to tender to tender by electronic means will be tested in the third quarter of 2018.
The CAAFEA will fully comply with the European Commission Recommendation on the implementation of the electronic tender system by the end of 2018.
CHAFEA agrees with the statement that the publication of notices of employment by temporary staff on the EPSO website may increase their visibility. 3.42.13.
The Agency accepts the Court's observations.
The Agency will continue to seek to further reduce the C8 withdrawal rate and efficiency.
DE 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/233 This report, including 41 declarations of conformity of agencies and bodies, was adopted by Chamber IV chaired by Mr Neven MATESA, member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 18 September 2018.
Official Journal of the European Union C 373 58 of 10 November 2015 Publication in German Content 2015/C 373/01 2015/C 373/02 Notifications and announcements IV Information Content of the institutions, bodies and other bodies of the European Union Court of Auditors Annual Report of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, together with the institutions' replies............................................................. 1 Annual Report of the Court of Auditors on the actions of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2014, together with the Commission's replies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
In accordance with Article 287 (1) and (4) TFEU, Article 148 (1) and Article 162 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Articles 43, 48 and 60 of Council Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 of 18 February 2008 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 567/2014, the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 at its meeting of 10 September 2015 have been adopted by the Official Journal of the European Union C 373/1 IV (Information) of the European Union Official Journal of the European Union (Information) of the European Union C 373/1 IV (Information) (Information) of the European Union, of the European Union, the bodies and other bodies of the European Union's European Union's Financial Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the budget of 25 October 2012 and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Articles 43, 48 and 60 of Council Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 of 18 February 2008 on the Financial Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 of 18 February 2008 on the 10 February 2008 on the European Development Fund, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 567/2014, annual accounts for the financial year 2014 at its meeting of 10 September 2015, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 567/2014, 2014 at the 10 September 2015 at the Council, at the meeting on the Council of 10 September 2015 on the Council, at the European Parliament and 10 September 2015,
These reports, together with the replies of the institutions to the Court's observations, were forwarded to the institutions responsible for granting discharge and to the other institutions.
To the members of the Court of Auditors: Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (President), Igors LudborŽS, Jan KINŠT, Kersti KALJULAID, Karel PINXTEN, Henri GRETHEN, Szabolcs FAZAKAS, Louis GALEA, Ladislav BALKO, Augustyn KUBIK, Milan Martin CVIKL, Rasa BUDBERGYT go, Lazaros S. LAZAROU, Hans Gustaf VESSBERG, Pietro RUSSO, Ville ITÄLANE, Kevin CARDIFF, Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUXA, Iliana IVANOVA, George PUFAN, Neven MATES, Alex BRENNINKMEIJER, Danièle LAMARQUE, Nikolaos MILANIS, Phil Wyn Owen, Klaus-HEIN LEHNE, OskarERICS AQULA, Bettina AS.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/3 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET (2015/C 373/01)
PL 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/5 CONTENTS..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 2 2 Budgetary and financial management...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 5? Competitiveness for growth and jobs..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 6..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 7 Establishment of natural resources for aid..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Page 7 9 65 83 127 165 213 261 275
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/7 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 0.1.
The European Court of Auditors shall be the institution responsible for the financial control of the European Union (EU) in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external EU auditor, we contribute to improving the financial management of the EU and, at the same time, we are an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
For more detailed information on our work, see the Annual Activity Report, including the Special Reports on EU spending and revenue programmes, as well as the opinions on new or revised legislation on our website www.eca.europa.eu.
This is our 38th annual report on the implementation of the EU budget; this is the financial year 2014.
The annual report on the European Development Funds shall be presented separately.
0.3.
The EU's general budget shall be adopted annually by the Council and the European Parliament.
Our annual report, together with the special reports, is the basis for the discharge procedure during which the European Parliament, on the basis of a recommendation from the Council, decides whether the Commission has satisfactorily carried out its tasks with regard to the implementation of the budget.
Together with the transmission to the European Parliament and the Council, we present our annual report to the national Parliaments.
0.4.
A key element of our annual report is the statement on the reliability of the consolidated accounts of the European Union as well as on the legality and regularity of transactions (hereinafter referred to as "the regularity of transactions ").
We complete this statement of assurance through detailed assessments of all major areas of EU activity.
0.5.
The structure of the chapters now reflects the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and therefore our report is even more important.
The financial framework entered into force in 2014 in order to determine the volume and breakdown of EU expenditure in the period up to 2020.
This should make it easier for readers to establish a link between the findings in our report and the relevant budgetary and accounting information.
0.6.
There are no separate financial statements for the individual MFF tours and the proposals submitted for the individual evaluations are therefore not audit opinions.
0.7.
Our report this year is divided as follows: Chapter 1 Our findings on budgetary and financial management are presented as follows: Statement of assurance and summary of the results of the audit of the reliability of the accounts and regularity of transactions: the findings on budgetary and financial management: Chapter 3 contributes strategically to improving the EU's public responsibility. Chapter 3 focuses on the extent to which the implementation framework allows the Commission to monitor and manage progress towards the Europe 2020 strategy. Chapter 4 presents our findings on revenue. Chapter 5-9 (on the implementation framework 1a, 1b, 2, 4 and 5) (on the implementation framework) (point 1), our findings on the regularity of the transactions, on the control of selected systems and annual activity reports.
0.8.
The Commission's (or, where appropriate, other EU institutions and bodies' replies) replies to our comments are contained in the report.
However, as an external auditor, our task is to present our audit findings, to learn from these findings and thus to carry out an independent and impartial assessment of the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of the transactions.
(1) As no detailed assessment of the expenditure for the MFF actions 3 (for security and citizenship) and 6 (for compensation for security and citizenship of MFF expenditure) under the 6 (including environmental and environmental expenditure) under the MFF programme and 6 (including environmental expenditure) under the MFF programme (for environmental and security expenditure) under the MFF programme (including environmental expenditure) under the MFF programme under the MFF programme (including security and citizenship) and under the 6 (for compensation) under the MFF programme (including environmental expenditure) under the MFF programme.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/9 PL 1 Statement of assurance and related comments Statement of assurance provided by the Court to the European Parliament and to the Council by an independent auditor The closure of EU expenditure is an important tool to achieve the policy objectives of the Audit findings for 2014. The financial report has not shown significant false results on the regularity of transactions: although our overall audit results remain unchanged, although they show a significant level of error There are many forms of corrective action where the Commission summary report confirms the errors to a significant extent related to the alleged fraud and fraud actions presented to OLAF, points I-XII 1.1-1.3 1.1-1.3 1.4-1.8 1.4-1.8 1.4-1.8 1.9 1.30-1.44 1.45-1.57 1.59-1.66 of Annex 1.1 of Annex 1.3, Annex 1.3 of Annex 1.4 of the European Parliament, is a tool to continue the follow-up on the reliability of the 2014 accounts.
DE C 373/10 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 to the European Parliament and to the Council Statement of Statement of Assurance to the Court of C 373/10 Statement of Assurance of the Court of Assurance of the Non-Senior Audit I. DE C 373/10 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 to the European Parliament and to the Council DE DE DE C 373/10 DECLARATION IN I. Written in the Written Statement of Non-Senior Audit and We reviewed (a) the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union, consisting of consolidated accounts (consolidated accounts) and aggregated accounts for the implementation of the budget (consolidated accounts for the implementation of the budget) for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 and approved by the Commission on 23 July 2015, and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Responsibility for the management of II. In accordance with Articles 317 and 318 TFEU and the Financial Regulation, the Commission is responsible for the drawing up and correct presentation of the consolidated accounts of the European Union on the basis of recognised international public sector accounting principles and for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This liability shall include the creation, creation and maintenance of internal control structures necessary for the preparation and presentation of financial statements, which shall be free of material and unintentional presentation of...
The Commission is ultimately responsible for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions of the European Union (Article 317 TFEU).
It is our task to present to the European Parliament and the Council, on the basis of our audit, a statement on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
We carried out the audit in accordance with the International Audit Standards and the requirements for the professional behaviour of the IFAC and with the International Standards of the Supreme Audit Authorities of INTOSAI.
In accordance with these standards, we must respect the requirements of professional behaviour and plan and carry out checks in such a way as to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the consolidated accounts of the European Union are free from material false presentations and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
IV. The audit shall include the carrying out of the audit activities in order to obtain evidence of the accounting and other information contained in the consolidated accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The choice of control activities shall be the responsibility of the controller, including the assessment of the risks associated with material or unintentional coerced or incorrect, or the consolidated accounts as well as material or unintended in the case where, in the sphere of transactions underlying the transactions of the European Union, with regard to the risks associated with material or unintended, incorrect presentations.
When assessing those risks, the auditor shall take into account all internal controls relevant for the preparation and proper submission of the consolidated accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, with a view to planning the audit activities relevant to the circumstances, but not with a view to giving an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
The verification shall also include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting rules applied, the adequacy of the accounting estimates and the overall statement of the consolidated accounts.
V. In the area of revenue, as a starting point for our assessment of VAT-based and gross national income-based own resources, we use macroeconomic aggregates appropriate for their calculation and we evaluate the Commission's systems for the processing of this data until we receive the contributions of the Member States and until they are included in the consolidated accounts.
In the area of traditional own resources, we examine customs accounts and analyse the movement of customs authorities until they are received by the Commission and until they are entered in the accounts.
1. Consolidated financial statements include balance sheet, profit and loss account, cash flow account, changes in net asset value, summary of relevant accounting rules and other explanations (including segment reports).
In the area of expenditure, we check the payment transactions after the expenditure has been made, entered in the accounts and accepted, we check all types of payment, except in advance and after payment, after the purchase of the assets has been made.
Prepayments shall be analysed when the beneficiary presents or has to provide evidence that they are properly used and when the advance is cleared or can be recovered.
VII. We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and adequate to serve as the basis for our test opinions.
The reliability of the accounts The audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts VIII. In accordance with our assessment, the consolidated accounts of the European Union for the year ending 31 December 2014, taking into account... on 31 December 2014, provides, in all material respects, the financial statements of the European Union, the financial statements of the European Union for the financial year ending on that date, the results of its transactions and the cash flows, as well as the changes in the value of net assets in all material respects, in accordance with the Financial Regulation and the accounting principles based on international accounting rules for the public sector. The legality and regularity of the transactions underlying that report. Payment The audit opinions on the legality and regularity of the revenues underlying that financial statement IX. In accordance with our assessment, the revenues underlying that financial statements for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 are legal and regular in all material respects.
Expenditure incurred in 2014 under the operational budget Expenditure from 1 to 4 of the multiannual financial framework (3) is to a large extent in error.
Our estimated error rate in payments underlying the annual accounts is 4.4%.
Our proposal is to analyse the risk levels presented by the Commission in the summary report.
According to our assessment of the payments underlying the accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2014, the errors have largely affected errors due to the importance of the lack of assessment of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts under paragraph. The financial statements for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 have largely affected errors due to the importance of the lack of legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts.
3. These headings are discussed in Chapters 5 to 8 of this annual report.
10 September 2015 Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi, 1615 Luxembourg, LUXEMBOURG
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/13 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT PRELIMINARY EU expenditure is an important tool for achieving the policy objectives 1.1.
EU spending is an important tool for achieving policy objectives.
Other important instruments are legislation, the free movement of goods, services and capital and the free movement of persons throughout the Union.
EU spending averages 1.9% of total EU spending (see Figure 1.1).
In line with the Treaty, it is our task, inter alia, to assess whether the use of the EU budget is in line with applicable rules and other rules; to issue an audit opinion on the EU annual accounts; to report on the savings, efficiency and effectiveness (4) of EU spending; to issue an opinion on the legislative proposals from the budget.
Our audit work in support of the Statement of Assurance meets the first and the second of these objectives.
This audit work allows us to identify risks that reduce economy, economy and efficiency.
It is also an important contribution to the drafting of an opinion on the proposed financial rules.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
The principle of cost-effectiveness concerns the optimal relationship between the measures used and the results achieved.
The principle of effectiveness refers to the achievement of certain objectives and objectives.
EN C 373/14 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Chart 1.1 of the EU's separate expenditure in 2014 in each Member State as a share of the total expenditure of the general government Sources: European Union expenditure (European Commission accounting data collected by the Court).
Total expenditure incurred by the Member State (Eurostat extraction General government financial statistics (expenditure and main aggregates) in 2014 (http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/government-finance-statistics/data/database).
Explanation of country codes see Annex 1.5.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.3.
In this chapter of the critical annual report, we provide information on the statement of assurance, as well as an overview of the approach we are presenting on the audit (see Annex 1.1), on the audit findings and conclusions;... we are analysing the nature of the various risks of EU spending; we will outline the actions taken by the Commission on the basis of the Commission's observations and recommendations on the reliability of the financial statements that we have presented in previous annual reports (see Annex 1.2).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/15 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT OF AUDIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 The financial statements did not show any significant false presentation of 1.4.
Our comments concern the consolidated accounts (5) (the annual accounts of the European Union), for the financial year 2014.
On 23 July 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 July 2015 to 23 July 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020.
The financial statements are accompanied by an analytical document to the accounts of IsraelFincial Statement Discussion and Analysis t Israel (1997), which is not the subject of our opinion on the financial statements.
However, in accordance with the audit principles, we have checked its consistency with the information contained in the financial statements.
1.5.
The annual accounts (see Annex 1.3 extracts) show that the total liabilities at 31 December 2014 amounted to EUR 220.7 billion compared to the total value of assets of EUR 162.7 billion.
The 2014 economic result is EUR 11.3 billion (see also paragraphs 2.12 to 2.13).
Our audits showed that the annual accounts did not contain relevant, incorrect information (see also Annex 1.2).
Our comments on EU budgetary and financial management are set out in Chapter 2.
5. The consolidated financial statements shall consist of: (a) the consolidated financial statements which shall include the balance sheet (in which the assets and liabilities are shown at the end of the year), the statement of revenue and expenditure (in which the revenue and expenditure of the year are shown), the statement of the cash flows (in which the changes affecting the cash and cash equivalents are shown) and the changes in the net assets, together with the corresponding explanations; (b) the aggregate report on the implementation of the budget, including the revenue and expenditure of the financial year, together with the explanations on the subject.
(6) The preliminary accounts were received by us together with the statement of completeness by the accounting officer on 31 March 2015, which, in accordance with the Financial Regulation, in accordance with Article 147 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, is the final deadline to be forwarded.
The final accounts were received 8 days before the deadline laid down in Article 148 on 31 July.
The revised analytical document on the financial statements for the movement and analysis of the financial statements of the Commission was forwarded to the Court on 1 September 2015.
(7) See the Guidelines on Recommended Practice 2  ▁spłacaFincial Statement Discussion and Analysis... (International Public Sector Standard Standards Board (IPSASB). (International Public Sector Standards Board).
C 373/16 Cuandary 3.11.2015 EU EU EU C 373/16 EU Response of Response of Committee 1.7. C 373/16 EU C 10.11.2015 Current Committee of the Committee of the Committee of the Committee.
In 2014, the Commission amended the presentation of the accounts several times.
These changes aim to take account of the new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and to further align them with international standards.
Significant improvements have been made to provide some explanations on the annual accounts (8).
points affecting the annual accounts 1.8.
Therefore, in accordance with point 1.13 of our 2013 annual accounts and point 2 of this year's progress report (Annex 1.2), the Commission has made progress with regard to: (a) clarification 6 on the annual accounts (on the protection of the EU budget) taking into account: (a) the annual accounts (on the protection of the EU budget.
The explanation now contains more detailed information.
With regard to cohesion policy, the Commission shall indicate the extent to which corrections are made before, during and during the implementation of expenditure.
Moreover, this clarification currently includes, although not always in quantitative form, a description of the impact of corrective actions (such as the creation of assigned revenue, expenditure withdrawn and replaced by the Member States, etc.) for the EU budget (9). (b) Clarification 2.5.2 on advance payments (advances for Member States) indicates that the Commission only has limited information on the use of financial instruments under shared management (EUR 3.8 billion) and other aid schemes (EUR 3.6 billion).
Significant adjustments may be necessary for the Commission at the end of the programming period 2007-2013.
(8) Including a consolidated summary of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities and a simplified reporting of segments.
(9) In its observations 6 to the 2015 accounts, the Commission seeks to take account of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union of June 2015 to annul the decision on financial corrections of EUR 457 million.
In footnote 2.10, the above decisions are already treated as adjustments for post-trade events (Case C-549/12 P and C-54/13 P, Joined Cases C-549/12 P and C-54/13 P (Case C-263/13 P, Joined Cases C-549/12 P and C-54/13 P (Case C-263/13 P, Joined Cases C-549/12 P and C-549/12 P (Case C-263/13 P, and Joined Cases C-263/13 P, C-263/13 P, and C-263/13 P, P and C-263/13 P (Case C-263/13 P) (Case C-263/13 P) and C-263/13 P (Case C-263/13, C-263/13 P) (Case C-549/12 P) (Case C-263/13 P) (Case C-263/13)) (the Commission Decision) of the ERDF programmes in Spain).
These decisions concerned expenditure incurred under the 1994-1999 operational programmes.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION C 373/17 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT on the regularity of transactions: Our overall audit results remain unchanged but indicate a significant error rate 1.9.
We analyse EU revenue and expenditure to assess whether they comply with applicable rules and other rules.
We present the results of the audit of the revenue of Chapters 4 and of the expenditure of Chapters 5 to 9 (see Table 1.1).
1.10.
Revenue was not significantly affected by errors (see section 4.26).
As regards expenditure, we still have a significant error rate.
4.4% of the estimated error rate of expenditure (after taking into account the corresponding corrective actions, see point 1.32 (10)) was close to the level in 2013 (4.5% (11)) (see Table 1.1).
The expenditure under pot 5 under the Multiannual Financial Framework (LRW 5) (LRW) has not been largely affected by errors (see paragraph 9.15).
For all other operational expenditure items, expenditure has been affected by significant errors (see paragraphs 5.32-533, 6.76-6.77, 7.72-7.73 and 8.26-8.27).
For the MFF the population reviewed (EUR billions) Estimated error rate in 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Low error rate (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Chapter 1a 1a 13.0 5.6 3.1 8.1 8.1 Chapter 1b 55.7 55.7 3.1 8.2 Chapter 2 57, 5 3.6 3.6 4.6 4.6 Chapter 4 7.7 2.7 0.9 4.4 Chapter 5 8,8 0,5 0.1 0.9 (10) in respect of applications that have not led to the payment or reduced payment should not be compared to the final payment levels.
(11) The estimated error rate set in the 2013 Annual Report was 4,7%.
Similar estimates of the amounts referred to above are lower by 0,2 percentage points, as our new approach to quantification of infringements of public procurement rules has been adopted (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
C 373/17 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 DE WRF-Rubrik Verified population (euro billions) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (EUL) Heading 3, 6 and other 2.1 U 1 July yyy, 144,5 4,5 3,3 5,4 chapter of the annual report Other (1) Revenue Estimated error rate 2013 (%) Of which 4,5 0 143,9 0 0 (1) We do not present any special assessment or distribution of expenditure under the MFF (Security and Citizenship of the Union) and 6 (limitation) and other expenditure (special instruments other than the MFF 2014-2020, such as the Emergency Aid Reserve, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the European Union Solidarity Fund and the Flexibility Instrument).
However, the audit work in these areas contributes to the overall expenditure proposal for the financial year 2014. Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.11.
Overall, the results of the studies over the last three years have remained relatively stable at a level significantly higher than our materiality index (see Figure 1.2).
REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.11.
The Commission notes that the error rate reported by the Court is an annual estimate that takes account of corrections in the accounts of expenditure on projects carried out before the Court's audit is announced.
The Commission recalls that it is bound by a Financial Regulation in which Article 32 (2) (e) provides that its internal control system should, inter alia, ensure adequate management of the risks associated with the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multiannual nature of the programmes and the nature of the payments in question.
In its 2014 summary report (COM (2015) 279 final), the Commission assessed the impact of the adjustment mechanisms on the amount of EUR 2.7 billion in the future, which represents 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
The Commission will continue to play a supervisory role through financial corrections and recovery at a level equivalent to the level of irregularities and shortcomings identified throughout the period as well as at the end of the programmes.
DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/19 Chart 1.2 Chart 1.2 2015 Estimated error rate (best error rate, MLE error rate in 2015) (1) The estimated error rate in 2012 and 2013 was adjusted to take into account the new approach to quantifying serious infringements of public procurement rules (see point 1.13).
Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.12.
EU expenditure consists mainly of two types of expenditure programmes, which differ in types of risk (12): programmes based on payment entitlements for which payment depends on the fulfilment of certain conditions; programmes covering scholarships for students and research scholarships (Chapter 5), direct payments for farmers (Chapter 7), direct support (Chapter 8), remuneration and pensions (Chapter 9); programmes for the reimbursement of EU eligible costs for which research projects (Chapter 5), investment programmes for regional development and rural development (Chapter 6 and 7), training programmes (Chapter 6) and development projects (Chapter 8).
(12) Points 1.20 to 1.22 provide more detailed information on these different risks.
(13) The payments of budget support constitute a contribution to the general budget of the country concerned or to the budget allocated to specific policies or objectives (see also paragraphs 8.7 and 8.8).
DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT New approach to scrutiny...
In 2014, we reworded our approach to quantifying serious infringements of public procurement rules.
This approach clarifies how we assess the effects of these infringements.
In particular, we have introduced a proportionate approach to calculating the error of contract change.
1.14.
To ensure comparability of the results of this report, we adjusted the figures for the years 2012 and 2013 in Table 1.1 and figures 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6, in line with this new approach.
Annex 1.4 presents unadjusted historical data on the estimated error rate established for the period 2009-2013.
As a result of this adjustment, the estimated total error rate was reduced by 0,2% in 2013 and by 0,3% in 2012.
The adaptation does not affect the conclusions we have reached with respect to these years and it clearly remains an important level of error.
1.15.
In 2015, we will adapt our approach to cross compliance to the revised legal framework of the common agricultural policy.
We will continue to report on the information provided by the Commission on cross compliance, but this element will no longer be the subject of our controls.
This year we have discovered many errors in cross-compliance in respect of every fourth of the visited farms.
The proportion of these errors in the estimated total error rate shall be 0,2 percentage points (2013: 0,2) ((14))) and 0,6 percentage points (2013: 0,5) at the error rate for the distribution of natural resources and for the distribution of natural resources in 2013.
The Commission welcomes the revision of the Court's approach since 2015.
As regards 2014, the Commission confirms its view that the breach of cross-compliance does not affect the eligibility conditions for payments (see the Commission's reply to paragraph 7.7).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/21 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT... and the new structure of our annual report 1.16.
As described in the general introduction (points 0.5-0.7), we have transformed the structure of the chapters of our annual report.
For the purposes of comparability below (Figure 1.3), the results of the audit of the previous year would be illustrated if both the new chapter structure and the new approach to quantification of infringements of public procurement rules were to be applied (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
We used this data in Table 1.1.
Figure 1.3 of the annual report for the financial year 2014, taking into account the new approach to quantifying infringements of public procurement rules: the European Court of Auditors, taking into account the revised structure of the annual report and the new approach to quantifying serious infringements of public procurement rules.
1.17.
As shown in Figure 1.4, it is shown from the area of cohesion that it contributes most to our estimated level of error in 2014 and to the area of natural resources estimated in 2014 in..., our level of competitiveness in... and to... Europe in the world in...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
This distribution is in line with our 2013 findings.
EN C 373/22 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Graph 1.4 not listed in Annex IV to Regulation (EC) No 1022/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. ) and on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 208 of the Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 208 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 December 2006 on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 208 of Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671) and on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 208 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 December 2006 on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 208 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1).
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.18.
The error in eligibility in return schemes has the highest percentage of errors detected in 2014 (see also paragraphs 1.20 to 1.22, Figures 1.5 and 1.6). (a) As regards reimbursement, the estimated error rate is 5.5 % (2013): 5.6 %).
Typical errors in this area include: inclusion of ineligible costs in the cost statement, ineligible projects, actions or beneficiaries; ineligible projects, actions or beneficiaries; serious breaches of procurement rules during the award of public contracts; non-compliance with procurement rules in the award of contracts (i.e. changes to the contract and the award of additional works).
REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.18. (a) The Commission has also identified similar problems in its audits.
During the 2007-2013 programming period, the Commission has made considerable efforts to identify the actual cause of the problems and, where appropriate, the implementation of corrective actions.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/23 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT b) For programmes based on payment entitlements, the estimated error rate is 2,7% (2013: 3,0%).
Typical errors in this area include: in the case of too large areas by farmers, in the case of administrative errors in payments by farmers.
Figure 1.5  Figure 1.5 Share in the estimated total error rate by type of error Source: European Court of Auditors.
1.19.
The figures for 2013 presented in Figure 1.5 are drawn up on the same basis as the figures for 2014, i.e. on the basis of the approach described in point 1.13.
C 373/24 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE THE COURT'S COMMENTS ON THE TYPE of expenditure and errors are closely linked to 1.20.
We analysed the relationship between the type of expenditure and the risk of error.
A characteristic feature of EU spending is the extent to which the correct calculation of payments to beneficiaries depends on the information provided by the beneficiaries themselves.
This applies to the largest category of expenditure schemes based on payment entitlements: area aid paid to farmers.
This is particularly important for refund schemes: the beneficiaries must provide information in the application confirming that they participate in the eligible activities and have incurred eligible costs.
This applies to all types of management (15).
1.21.
Graph 1.6 is based on all audits on EU expenditure carried out over the last two years, both on the annual reports on the general budget and on the European Development Fund (16).
Cash flow is grouped according to their type.
The size of the circles in this figure represents a share of the total expenditure, the corresponding positioning along the line of 45 degrees indicates the estimated error rate, the colour of which indicates whether it is a claim, whether it is a return-based expenditure or a return expenditure.
1.22.
This chart includes both elements of discretion (assessment of the impact of systems and risks associated with the type of operation in Annex 1.1, point 1) and empirical elements (assessment of the estimated error rate over the two-year period).
Firstly, it aims to meet the wishes of our addressees who want more information on the different risk profiles, and secondly to help the Commission to take action in areas where there are still high levels of error.
1.20.
The Integrated Management and Control System (IACS), which includes the Land Parcel Identification System (LPIS), contributes significantly to the prevention and reduction of errors (see paragraph 7.32).
The LPI shall be established and operated by the national authorities.
Payments to final beneficiaries are only possible after comparison of their claims with the data available in the land identification system.
The LPI provides a lower error rate for area aid than for all other types of aid under shared management.
The Commission considers that boxes 1.2 and 1.3 confirm this position.
(15) Direct management (direct management carried out by the European Commission), indirect management (non-EU countries, international organisations, etc.), shared management (shared management between the Commission and the Member States).
(16) This assessment is based on the same approach for both years (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/25 Figure 1.6 ¢ Relationship between the type of operation, the risk and the estimated error rate in the European Union (2013-2014) (1) The return to the designated countries in the European Union covers projects funded by several donors, which in practice have several features of payment entitlements systems and which have a lower error rate.
C 373/26 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT The results in the various expenditure areas show different types of errors 1.23. Competitiveness (Chapter 5): The estimated error rate is 5,6% and therefore exceeds the corresponding results for 2013 (4,0% (b.17).Most expenditure is based on reimbursement of costs and errors essentially reflect different categories of ineligible costs (in particular staff costs, other direct costs and indirect costs).
1.24.1 consistency (Chapter 6): the estimated error rate is 5.7%, i.e. higher than the corresponding error rate in 2013 (5,3% (17)).
Almost all expenditure in this area is in the form of reimbursement.
The main reasons for errors are serious infringements of public procurement rules (around half of the estimated error rate) and then ineligible costs in declarations of expenditure (more than one quarter of the estimated error rate).
The infringement of State aid rules and of ineligible projects is the remainder of the error.
1.25...... natural resources... (Chapter 7): the estimated error rate is 3.6%, which is below the 2013 results (4,4% (17).
The European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EDF) accounts for more than three quarters of this expenditure and this Fund is less likely to be error than part of rural development for which we have long seen a high level of error, in particular in respect of expenditure incurred on the basis of reimbursement of costs.
Overall, the over-estimation of the number of land or animals among the farmers resulted in about one third of the estimated error rate.
Errors related to ineligible beneficiaries, activities or expenditure were the second highest percentage (around a quarter of the estimated error rate).
The most important remaining shares are a breach of cross-compliance (one sixth) and an administrative error (one sixth).
1.23.
See Commission replies to Chapter 5 of the annual report (point 5.6.5.17).
1.24.
See Commission replies to Chapter 6 of the annual report (paragraphs 623 to 6.45 and 6.76).
1.25.
The lower error rate in the EAGF reflects the effectiveness of theDocuments system, and in particular of the effectiveness of the EPCIS in the correct implementation of the first step of the process in the prevention of errors.
The Commission considers that, in general, the HACCP is a sound system for managing CAP expenditure.
See also replies in points 1.15 and 1.20 in points 7.15 to 7.19 and points 7.25 to 7.29.
(17) The comparative figure takes into account both the reclassification of budgetary items in order to ensure that the chapters reflect the MFF principles and the new approach to infringements of public procurement rules.
See also Figure 1.3.
DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.26.... Europe in the world... (Chapter 8): The estimated error rate is 2,7%, i.e. higher than the corresponding 2013 results (2.1% ((18))) ((19).
The ineligible costs reimbursed by the Commission represent more than half of the total error rate.
Payments for unrealised works and services or unrealised supplies shall constitute a quarter of the total error rate.
The rest is due to the lack of supporting documents (about one tenth of the estimated error rate), incorrect calculation of expenditure and breach of public procurement rules.
1.27...Management... (Chapter 9): the estimated error rate is 0.5 %, which means a decrease compared to the corresponding results in 2013 (1% (1.18).
Most of the expenditure in this area concerns salaries, pensions and allowances paid by EU institutions and bodies.
The small number of errors in additives represented the largest percentage of errors in this respect, which is not at all relevant.
1.28.
As explained in the introduction, we do not create a separate chapter on expenditure that does not fall within the scope of the MFF 1, 2, 4 and 5.
Therefore, the remaining expenditure of the total amount of EUR 2.1 billion (1.5% of the expenditure covered by our control) is presented in this Chapter (20).
Of the total amount of EUR 2.1 billion, EUR 0.5 billion is spent on the expenditure incurred by and by the 10 agencies which are the subject of our special annual reports[21].
The main errors identified in this area consisted in the reimbursement of ineligible costs (see Box 1.1).
(18) This comparative number takes account of both the reclassification of the budget lines to ensure that the chapters reflect the AK and the new approach to infringements of public procurement rules.
The majority of expenditure in the chapter in the field of education and education and training and in the field of education and training and training and in the field of education and training, and in the field of education, education and training in education and training and in the field of education and training, and in the field of education and training and training in the field of education and training.
(20) See footnote 1 to Table 1.1.
(21) European Judicial Cooperation Office, European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union, European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, European Asylum Support Office, European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, European Food Safety Authority, European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, European Police College, European Police Office, European Agency for Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
C 373/28 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT Box 1.1 COMPLETE IN C 373/28 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COURT OF EXAMPLE OF THE PROPOSALS IN THE ACTION OF THE DRAFT IN THE MFF 3 COMPLIANCE AND Citizenship COMPLIANCE WITH THE INSTANCES OF THE PROPOSAL, which served as the coordinator of the draft cooperation under the Fundamental Rights and Citizenship programme under the Fundamental Rights and Citizenship programme under the Fundamental Rights and Citizenship programme under the Fundamental Rights and Citizenship programme under the Fundamental Rights and Rights of the European Union programme under the Agency and the Union programme under the Agency under the Agency programme under the Agency under the Fundamental Rights and Citizenship programme under the Agency under the Union programme under the Union programme.
In the middle of the day, the public body which received the aid divided two permanent employees (officials) into projects, after which part of its remuneration was covered in the report on project costs.
MEPs only incur additional costs if other staff are required to replace officials in their normal duties and are therefore in fact to incur costs.
Since the beneficiary has not taken any action to replace officials, these costs are not eligible.
The total amount of ineligible costs declared by the beneficiary was EUR 58 000 from the total costs invoiced of EUR 237 000.
For eight of the 25 MFF 3 projects, we identified ineligible costs which were reimbursed by the Commission.
Box 1.1 Nekrose An example of an error in the reimbursement of project costs under the MFF 3 Security and citizenship in the Commission was the difficulties of the public institutions in complying with the eligibility rules in respect of staff costs of staff of public institutions (other staff to replace staff employed in ordinary activities).
Therefore, since 2011, the Commission has amended the eligibility rules applicable to employees of public institutions, using the flexibility set out in the rules implementing the Financial Regulation.
Consequently, the ineligible costs (staff costs in public bodies which are not eligible for substitution) identified by the Court in the grants thus mentioned are now considered eligible for aid.
1.29.
The total estimated error rate for shared management expenditure is 4,6% (in 2013 4,9% (in 1997)) and 4,6% (in 2013 3,7% (in 2013) for all other operational expenditure[23].
The estimated error rate in administrative expenditure is 0.5 % (2013: 1,0% (22)).
(22) This comparative number takes into account a new approach to infringements of public procurement rules.
See also paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14.
(23) These expenditures are mainly covered by Chapters 7 and 8, but are partly also covered by Chapters 5 and 6.
The high calculated error rate in shared management expenditure is based on an analysis of 687 transactions (the population of EUR 113 billion).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/29 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT There are many forms of corrective action with varying effect of 1.30.
Our analysis of errors and adjustments is aimed at analysing complex mechanisms for the implementation and collection of remedies and the valorisation of the various ways in which these mechanisms may affect our research work.
In some areas of expenditure, the Commission will have new instruments if expenditure is incurred in the new programming period.
Remedies 1.31.
We are trying to take into account the corrective actions taken by the Member States and the Commission before making the payment or our investigation.
We also note the corrections that take place after the inspection has been announced, but we cannot reduce the estimated error rate when the inspection itself triggers the corrective action (24).
We check the application of these corrections (including recovery from beneficiaries and corrections at project level) and, where appropriate, adjust the calculation of the error rate.
However, the effects of corrective action vary considerably depending on the area of expenditure and corrective action.
1.32.
The Commission and the authorities of the Member States applied corrective measures in respect of 24 sampled transactions in 2014, which had a direct impact on the operation and were relevant for our calculations.
These corrective actions led to a reduction in our estimated error rate by 1.1 percentage points (in 2013 1.6 percentage points), which accounts for around EUR 1.6 billion.
Changes in the number of operations concerned and their impact on the estimated error rate do not indicate that corrective measures are more or less effective: in view of the fact that they concern a relatively small part of our sample, fluctuations can be expected from year to year.
1.30.
The Commission considers that the annual representative error rate of the Court should be considered in the context of the Commission's ability to correct the various annual activity reports and in the summary report.
The Financial Regulation requires appropriate consideration of the risks associated with the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multi-annual nature of the control systems and the nature of the payments.
1.31.
In its 2014 synthesis report (COM (2015) 279 final), the Commission assessed the impact of the corrective mechanisms on the amount of EUR 2.7 billion in the future, representing 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
For figures broken down by policy area, see Table 1 in the summary report.
The Commission stresses that any financial corrections and recovery of expenditure unlawfully cannot be reimbursed from the EU budget (see explanatory note 6 to the accounts).
(24) See points 1.19 to 1.37 of the annual report for the financial year 2012.
The Commission shall apply the terms "financial corrections' and "corrections' in order to take account of the wide range of corrective actions applied both before and after the Commission (or reimbursement) of expenditure.
1.34.
Note 6.2.2 on the financial statements shows the total amount of EUR 3285 million for corrective actions in 2014.
Figure 1.7 shows how we classify adjustments made at different stages of the expenditure cycle.
One quarter of all corrective actions in 2014 consist of corrections and recovery in the amount of the source presentation, i.e. before the Commission makes the related payment (25).
The fourth is in the form of the redemption and replacement of expenditure related to cohesion projects (at the time of the implementation or at the time of the closure of operational programmes). 1.33.
The Commission considers that "financial corrections' and "financial corrections' are applied in accordance with the legal framework set out in the Financial Regulation and the relevant sectoral legislation.
For more details on the different preventive and corrective mechanisms provided for in the legislation in force, see the explanation for the 6th annual accounts of the EU and the Communication on the protection of the EU budget.
(25) For the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, the corrections notified in 2014 as made in 2014 amount to EUR 430 million for the source, of which 75% have already been made in previous years.
DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/31 Graph 1.7 071 Classification of corrective actions taken in 2014 (*) Commission decisions (mainly decisions on conformity in the field of agriculture), adjustments leading to redemption of commitments and recovery of amounts from beneficiaries (**) Reduction of reimbursement of costs and inclusion of new projects/costs in the implementation of programmes and implementation of programmes. (**) Corrections prior to payment under shared management, amounts ineligible and payments under direct and indirect management (e.g. in explaining 6 above mentioned amounts) in 2014 (**) Corrections prior to payment under shared management, amounts ineligible and payments under direct and indirect management (e.g. in 6 not recovered),
Source: Explanation 6 on EU consolidated accounts for 2014 and basic data.
For consistency, the classification of the amounts to which the exemption relates before payment under payment under payment under pre payment under payment under payment under payment under payment under programme under co-financing under the programme for which, under the pre-payment under the programme under payment under the scheme under the scheme, for payments under the payment scheme under the payment under the payment scheme under the scheme, relates to the analysis of adjustments made during that period under the programme under Horizon 2020.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.35.
The corrective actions discussed in this part of the annual report shall include the work of the Member States' authorities and the recovery activities carried out by the national authorities and the Commission.
C 373/32 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 10.11.2015 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT The consequences of corrective actions are largely evident at the time of the adoption of the expenditure by the Commission.
All relevant sectoral regulations on shared management shall include provisions on initial checks or reductions of amounts declared by final beneficiaries to be carried out by national authorities before expenditure is certified.
In some cases, national authorities also agree to reduce or remove some of the costs which, due to long-term errors, appear in the declarations (such as the current payments under the contract in which there are errors in public procurement rules).
Such adjustments may have a measurable impact on the level of refunds or aid paid to individual farmers and their adjustment will contribute to the reduction of our estimated error rate.
1.37.
With regard to direct and indirect management With regard to payments with regard to payment claims with regard to payment claims with regard to direct and indirect payments, with regard to payments made by the Commission, it is necessary, inter alia, to deduct the amounts not eligible before the approval of payments.
Eligibility of the measures shall be determined on the basis of the examination of the documentation available or on the basis of the results of the checks carried out (see also Figure 1.7).
This also allows us to reduce the estimated error rate.
Conformity decisions (on financial corrections in the agricultural sector) are often taken on a lump sum basis.
In general, they refer to system flaws rather than to errors at the level of the final beneficiaries.
In rare cases, they lead to recovery from the farmers concerned.
Such corrective measures encourage Member States to improve their management and control systems.
They contribute to the legality and regularity of transactions at the level of the final beneficiaries if they lead to continuous improvements in the accounts of expenditure adopted by the paying agencies (see Boxes 1.2 and 1.3).
The Commission services shall also recover funds j at source, deduction of ineligible expenditure (measured in previous or current cost statements) from payments made.
1.38.
The financial corrections made by the Commission on agricultural expenditure are intended to protect and impose on the Member States the EU budget.
They do not directly lead to recovery from farmers because the Commission does not pay directly to the final beneficiaries, but returns the payments that the Member States have made to farmers.
However, where incorrect payments can be identified as a result of a conformity clearance procedure, the Commission expects the Member States to continue payments by means of recovery actions against the beneficiaries.
See response to Box 1.3.
The paying agencies shall implement conformity decisions by reducing future requests by the Commission for reimbursement for payments to farmers.
The Commission shall recognise the full amount paid to farmers as expenditure, i.e. the correction does not entail a reduction in the amount of registered payments.
Instead, the difference between payments to farmers and refunds to paying agencies is recorded as assigned revenue to finance agricultural expenditure (26).
Over two thirds of financial corrections in 2014 in the area of cohesion in...
1.40.
In the area of consistency, financial corrections within the 1988 group account for more than two thirds of the total reporting in cases where the Member States' authorities withdraw the expenditure incurred and replace it with new expenditure.
For some cases of withdrawal, no specific projects can be considered withdrawn.
Instead, Member States report additional projects and de facto receive a lower co-financing rate.
1.40. The Commission considers that any financial corrections, including financial corrections, for which Member States may submit new projects and new expenditure for the re-use of the adjusted amounts, protect the EU budget against undue expenditure and may encourage Member States to recover amounts from beneficiaries and thus contribute to the improvement of management and control systems.
However, the deterrent effect of net financial corrections where Member States are unable to re-use the corrected and recovered amounts and are therefore losing resources is certainly higher.
(26) For example, if the paying agency on the farm is subject to a financial correction of 5% and payments of EUR 100 million are made to farmers, the Commission will reimburse it with EUR 95 million, but the Commission, in turn, is able to cover expenditure of EUR 100 million, which is offset by assigned revenue of EUR 5 million.
C 373/34 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT... whereas net adjustments are made less frequently 1.41.
If it is not possible to replace, corrections which are not possible for the Member State concerned will lead to the loss of EU funds[27]. in the case of, although relatively rarely in the case of... Member States may not be able to provide sufficient eligible expenditure and, in the case where it is no longer possible to replace (28) or is no longer allowed (29).
The Commission envisages that, as a result of future changes in legislation, net adjustments will be applied to a greater extent. 1.41.
For example, in the field of agriculture, the legislator decided to apply a similar net financial correction mechanism for the 2014-2020 programming period for cohesion policy.
This gives Member States an additional incentive to prevent or detect serious irregularities in management and control systems and to resolve them before submitting financial statements to the Commission.
Otherwise, and if the Commission or the Court continue to detect serious deficiencies after the financial statements have been transmitted, the Commission must, under the conditions laid down in the relevant regulations, make a net financial correction, which means a loss of financial resources to the Member State.
Furthermore, the Commission considers that, regardless of the method they apply, any financial corrections and recovery of resources under shared management have a negative impact on national budgets.
In order to avoid the loss of EU funding, the Member State must replace the expenditure not eligible for additional operations eligible for aid.
This means that a Member State, together with its national budget, bears the financial consequences of the loss of EU co-financing in respect of expenditure declared ineligible, provided that it does not recover the amounts from individual beneficiaries.
(27) either as a reduction in payments or as a reimbursement to the EU budget, which leads to assigned revenue (see Figure 2.2).
(28) After the programmes have been completed.
(29) In the absence of an agreement between the Member States and the Commission (see point 1.25 (b) of the annual report for the financial year 2012).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION C 373/35 DE THE COURT'S COMMENTS In 2014, the Commission and the Member States applied all these types of corrective action 1.42.
Box 1.2-1.4 presents the various types and effects of remedial actions. Box 1.2.. W..... W.... W.... W..... w... w.. w... w.. and.. w.... w..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
This process took place at different stages and led to a reduction of permanent grassland from 3.6 million ha in 2012 to 1.5 million ha in October 2014, supported by the PSFIS.
Illegal proposals for a wild green country that has not been eligible for EU aid for several years have been a key factor for our estimated error rate for natural resources over several years.
We took into account the impact of adjustments on individual payments paid to the final beneficiaries, which were the subject of our sample in the EAGF and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
Another effect is that the paying agency has rejected many applications that are ineligible, which has resulted in the expenditure in question being removed from our sample.
Box 1.2 verlust Example of improvement of management and control systems nachteilig Greece: Land identification control Other examples of positive impact of action plans are given by the Court in Chapter 7.
The action plans shall be implemented whenever deemed necessary and the Commission shall carefully monitor their implementation and report on the corrective action taken in the annual activity report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
The land identification system prevents beneficiaries from making claims in respect of land which does not exist or which does not meet the eligibility conditions or in respect of land in respect of which another beneficiary has already made claims.
With proper implementation, it is a very effective tool to reduce error rates.
It covers 75% of CAP expenditure.
According to the 2014 Annual Activity Report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, the error rate for area payments is lower than for other measures.
On the basis of the information provided by the Court on 22 March 2014 by the European Commission on 22 January 2014 in respect of points (a) and (b) (b) (a) and (b) (a) and (b) (b) (b) and (b) (b) (a) and (b) and (b) (b) in respect of agricultural holdings used in France in respect of points (a) and (a) and (b) (b) and (b) in respect of agricultural holdings used in agricultural holdings in France in respect of points (a) and (b) (b) (b) and (b) (b) in respect of points (b) and (b) and (b) in respect of points (a) (a) and (b) in respect of points (a) and (b) (b) in point (a) and (b) in point (b) in respect of points (a) (a) and (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) and (i) in respect of paragraph (b) (b) of paragraph (b) and (b) (b) in point (b) in point (b) in point (a) (a) in point (a) (b) in point (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) of point (b) (a) (b) of point (b) of point (b) of point (b) of point (a) of paragraph (a) of paragraph (a) of point (a) of point (a) of paragraph (b) of point (b) of point (b) of the Commission, the Commission, the Commission, the application (b) of the Commission, the application of point (a) of point (b) of point (a) of point (b) of point (a) of point (b) of point (b) (b) of point (b) of point (b) of point (i) of point (b) of point (a) of point (i) of point (b) of paragraph (i) of point (a) of point (i) of point (b) of point (b) of point (b) of point (i) of point (a) of point (i) of point (a) of point (a) of
The national authorities have stated that this will have no impact on farmers and that the amount will not be financed from the national budget.
In the previous annual reports, we noted that this approach does not encourage beneficiaries to be encouraged to solve errors (32).
The main reasons for the correction were the weaknesses in the LPIs/GIS system (EUR 695 million) and the ceiling for payment entitlements, which led to an excessive payment to farmers (EUR 141 million).
Another reason, although to a lesser extent, was the breach of the cross-compliance obligation with regard to the timely notification of movements of animals (EUR 123 million).
All these reasons relate to payments made between 2009 and 2013.
No adjustment was made in 2014 and the non-compliance with the ceiling for payment entitlements and ineligible land covered by the ceiling in France contributed to this year's estimated error rate for natural resources of 0,3 percentage points.
Box 1.3, for example, for corrections resulting from the clearance of the compliance of accounts procedures in the compliance decision 47 and for French farmers under shared management, the Member States are responsible for ensuring the proper functioning of the control systems.
A financial correction of EUR 1.1 billion will be reimbursed to the EU budget in three annual instalments (2015-2017 and 2017).
The Commission notes that, given the nature of the ex-post conformity clearance procedure, a financial correction is very rarely accepted in the following year of expenditure after the end of the year and after the end of the adversarial period in which the Member State concerned may present its own arguments and calculations.
The ongoing clearance of accounts procedure will protect the EU budget for 2014.
Box 1.4 of financial support instruments For example, corrections that incurred additional expenditure: ESF For example Romania In our annual accounts for the financial years 2012 and 2013, we draw attention to the corrective actions in Romania.
In 2013, we managed to reduce the estimated error rate for the many Romanian projects of the European Social Fund (ESF) because the national authorities identified the impact of the corrections at the project level.
This is also the case in 2014.
Some of the projects that we are investigating are still showing errors due to problems that have not been taken into account in the corrections.
In its 2014 Annual Activity Report, Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Integration (DG EMPL) stresses that it continues to monitor the implementation of the agreed action plan.
The revised financial corrections do not necessarily mean that Romania will receive less EU funds as Member States may benefit from the possibility of using more expenditure (33).
(30) A multi-annual procedure permitting the recovery of amounts paid to Member States where such payments are contrary to EU rules or where there are shortcomings in the management and control systems in the Member State.
See also paragraph 7.59.
(31) France subsequently appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union against the decision to impose a financial correction.
(32) See points 1.26 and 1.32 of the annual report for the financial year 2012.
(33) In practice, this would mean a reduction in the rate of EU co-financing.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/37 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT In its report on corrective actions, the Commission does not always quantify their different impact, the Commission does not always quantify its different impact...
1.43.
Explanation 6 on financial statements is largely voluntary disclosure of information that is not required under accounting rules.
A significant part of this information does not come from accounting systems.
The explanation describes the different impacts of the various adjustments of the EU budget, but not always in quantitative form, and further improvements would allow for a better analysis of 1.44.
The Commission's ability to improve the quality of expenditure depends not only on the amounts concerned but also on their impact.
A rigorous assessment of the impact of corrective actions requires better identification of the nature of the corrected error and the manner in which the corrections are made (34).
In assessing the impact of their corrective actions, the relevant Commission Directorates-General shall make the necessary adjustments to the figures set out in note 6 (see point 1.55).
The Commission summary report confirms significant errors in transactions 1.45.
Each Directorate-General of the Commission shall draw up an annual activity report.
This report shall report on the achievement of the main policy objectives (as approved in Chapter 3), the management report prepared by the Director-General for the College of Commissioners and the statement in which the Director-General (Directives) accepts the assurance that the financial information contained in the report is adequately presented and that it is legal and regular and lawful.
1.43.
The legislator has made available to the Commission an instrument of financial corrections to ensure that expenditure made unlawfully is not financed by the EU budget.
The financial corrections relate primarily to system flaws which give rise to a risk of error.
It is the responsibility of the Member States, not the Commission, to establish irregular amounts and to recover them from the beneficiaries.
If this is not the case, EU funds will be replaced by national funds, as national budgets have to bear the cost of financial corrections.
1.44.
Several services have corrected their figures adequately in comment 6 on the protection of the EU budget in order to allow the estimation of future corrections in relation to their specific circumstances.
(34) See paragraphs 1.13 to 1.15 of the annual report for the financial year 2013.
The summary report shall include a summary of this information and a statement that, together with the adoption of the summary report, the Commission shall assume overall political responsibility for the management of the EU budget.
1.47.
This section of the chapter contains the results of our analysis of the Directorate-General's annual activity reports and the Commission's summary report[35].
The emphasis will be placed on the coherence and adequacy of the Commission's estimates of... error at the time of reimbursement or reimbursement of its own expenditure by the Commission (the Commission here speaks of the amount of risk....),... the extent to which errors will be corrected by subsequent corrections (the Commission here speaks of their correction capacity or of future corrections estimated at............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... and (...,,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Directors-General shall report annually on the regularity of 1.48.
If the Directors-General are unable to guarantee the reliability of a substantial part of the expenditure, they raise reservations (see Box 1.5).
(iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (
(35) The summary report and the Commission's annual activity reports are available on the Commission's website: The summary report: http://ec.europa.eu/network/planning-and-preparing/synthesis-report/index_en.htm, annual activity reports: http://ec.europa.eu/network/synthesis/aar/index_en.htm.
(36) See summary report, footnotes 10 and 13, pages 14 and 15.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/39 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT Box 1.5 The comments in the 2014 Annual Activity Reports were made by the Directors-General in 2014 by a total of 20 quantitative reservations against 17 in 2013.
The increase in the total number of reservations is due to the three new reservations of the Directors-General for the Communication, Content and Technology Network (37) and the Neighbourhood Policy and the Enlargement Negotiations (DG NEAR) (37) (43) and the Services for Foreign Policy Instruments (FPI) (40) (43) (43) (43) (43) (43) (42) (42) (42) (42).
In 2014, the conditional expenditure fell from EUR 2.4 billion in 2013 to EUR 2.3 billion in 2014 (43).
1.49.
The European Parliament resolution on discharge for 2013 ([44]) calls on the Commission to further clarify the calculation of the amount of risk by clarifying the estimated impact of corrective mechanisms on this number.
(37) Reservation for the ICT Policy Support Programme for the Countries participating in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), as the residual error rate exceeds 2.94%.
(38) Reservation for indirect management by beneficiary countries as the residual error rate exceeds 2% (2,67%).
(39) The problems identified in the 2013 Annual Report led to new reservations due to the reputation of DG NEAR (formerly DG Enlargement), see paragraph 7.16 of the 2013 Annual Report).
(40) Reservation for expenditure related to the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) as the residual error rate exceeds 2% (2.13%).
(41) The Directorate-General for Regional Policy and Urban Development (DG REGIO) has divided its repeated reservations on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)/Cohesion Fund (FS)/Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) into two reservations: ERDF/FS and IPA.
(42) The Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE) has removed reservations regarding programmes for the eradication and monitoring of animal diseases in the policy area.
(43) See summary report, Annex 2.
(44) Report on the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2013, Section III, implementation of the general budget of the European Union, Section III, implementation of the general budget of the European Union, and implementing agencies 2014/2075 (DEC) (A8-0101/2015).
DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.50.
As requested by the discharge authority in 2014, the Commission developed internal guidelines (45) for the submission of information in the annual activity reports.
Director Generals are currently to present the average error rates detected (46).
in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in the year in
The summary report presents this amount together with estimates of the future ex post control capacity of the Commission. The Commission acknowledges that the expenditure is heavily affected by errors...
1.51.
In its 2014 summary report, the Commission identified the risk of EUR 3.7 billion to EUR 5 billion.
This corresponds to between 2.6% and 3.5% of the payments covered by the 2014 summary report ((48)).
These figures show that total expenditure is largely burdened with errors... but points out the estimated impact of future corrections of 1.52.
The 2014 summary report provides for a total estimate of the number of future corrections.
On the basis of the corrections[49] taken into account in the last six years, the Commission estimates that in the coming years it will be able to detect and correct errors of EUR 2700 million in total and for an apparent amount of EUR 50.
(45) Standing Instructions for the 2014 Annual Activity Reports (SEC (2014) 553).
(46) This is the error rates detected or estimated at the time of the payment (not the residual error rate), i.e. without correction as a result of errors corrected after the fact.
