ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2007 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2008 ISBN 978-9207-003-8 (c) European Communities, 2008 
3 4-5 6-7 8-13 14-17 18-25 26-27 28-29 30-35 36-37 38-43 44-45 PREFACE OF THE PRESIDENT'S MANDATE, MISSION STATEMENT, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES ROLE AND WORK OF THE COURT'S GOVERNANCE AND ORGANISATION OVERVIEW OF THE COURT'S AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS FOLLOW-UP AND IMPACT OF THE COURT'S POSITION ON THE COURT'S WORK IN 2007 AND BEYOND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION PERSONNEL FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONTENT 
One of the main objectives of the Court and part of its mission to promote transparency and accountability is to bring the European Court of Auditors closer to EU citizens. 
It is therefore a great pleasure to welcome you as a reader of the first Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors. 
The report aims to provide an overall overview of the Court and to account for its activities in 2007, the year in which it celebrates its 30th anniversary as an external auditor of the European Union, who, according to his mandate, contributes to improving EU financial management and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens. 
The Court makes its main contribution to its audits and reports enabling the audited body to improve its financial management and assist the discharge authority (European Parliament and Council) in its control over the implementation of the EU budget. 
This report provides an overview of the audit reports published in 2007 and highlights the main conclusions on the implementation of the 2006 EU budget and the sound financial management of EU funds. 
The Court not only reports on the financial management of past years, but also actively contributes to the establishment of an EU financial control framework. 
2007 was of great importance for EU financial management. 
The Court's position 'The Court's position' outlines the Court's view on significant developments in the accountability of the Member States and the Court's contribution to the public consultation launched by the European Commission on budgetary reform. 
None of the Court's findings in 2007 would be conceivable without the commitment, know-how and competence of its 850 staff. 
Staff is the most important asset of a forward-looking authority that strives for continuous improvement. 
This first Annual Activity Report provides details of the Court's reform process, which was launched in 2006 with a self-assessment. 
Progress was made in 2007 in the implementation of the resulting action plan and at the end of the year a so-called peer review procedure was launched under the leadership of a group of auditors belonging to the national auditors of Canada, Austria, Norway and Portugal. 
A first result of this reform process was the following statement on the Court's mission, mission statement, values and strategic objectives, based on the future activities on which the Court will report in due course. 
I wish you a lot of pleasure in reading the first Annual Activity Report and hope that it will be useful to you. 
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5 
The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing EU finances in accordance with the Treaty. 
As an EU external auditor, he contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens. 
Independence, integrity & impartiality Professionalism Value Added Excellence & Efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and employees. 
Supply of its addressee with appropriate test results, whereby any form of influence is rejected by instructions or pressure from the outside. 
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work. 
Producing relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the concerns of its audience and containing important and forward-looking statements. 
To contribute to an effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and to contribute to strengthening accountability for the management of EU funds. 
Fostering team spirit through effective communication. 
In order to fulfil its mandate, the European Court of Auditors has committed itself to the following strategic objectives: Professionalism Output target group Further development & growth Consolidated audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with the EU-ORKBs, effective "Community control framework" selection of relevant audit topics, timeliness, clarity and legibility of the reports, quality of performance audits, increase of the impact of the reports deepening relations with audit bodies in order to better understand the audit process and achieve greater acceptance of audit results; Strengthening contacts with the European Parliament and Council as budgetary and discharge authority; effectively communicate with EU citizens using peer-review experience to strengthen and develop organisation, methods, processes and results and achieve maximum efficiency; Pursuing an effective and dynamic human resources policy; high-quality professional training; Modernisation of infrastructure; Implementation of IT strategies 
8 THE ROLE AND WORK OF THE COURT, WHAT ROLE DOES THE COURT HAVE? 
The budget of the European Union amounts to around EUR 120 billion, representing about 1 % of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States. 
This represents a small proportion compared to national budgets. 
However, for some Member States, EU funding plays an important role in financing public activities. For example, the total budget volume is close to the GNI of some countries, such as Romania. 
Over time, the composition of the budget has undergone changes, with agriculture and cohesion policy being the main expenditure areas (see Box 1). 
The budget is determined annually, on the basis of the seven-year financial framework, by the Council, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and the directly elected European Parliament on a proposal from the European Commission. 
The Commission carries out the budget on its own, but shares a significant share of the administrative tasks with the Member States, in particular in the area of agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure. 
Depending on the rules on expenditure, national authorities may be responsible for defining expenditure strategies, selecting beneficiaries and projects and making payments. 
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on applications from the beneficiaries themselves, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union. 
9 BOX 1 - HOW DOES THE EU SPEND ITS MONEY? 
EU budgets largely serve different uses than national budgets, partly due to the different areas of competence. 
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually account for a large proportion of national expenditure. 
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which usually takes the form of payments to farmers throughout the Union, accounts for the main share of household expenditure, albeit with a declining trend at present. 
In 2008, slightly less than half of the budget is earmarked for the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly for agriculture and rural development. 
Since the 1980s, a significant part of the expenditure has been devoted to cohesion - i.e. regional and social development - to co-finance a wide range of projects ranging from road construction in Slovakia to training courses for the unemployed in Denmark. 
For 2008, expenditure on sustainable growth, the lion's share of cohesion, was estimated at 38 % of the budget. 
This heading also covers a large part of the EU funding earmarked for research. 
Around 6 % of the budget is spent on the administration of the Community institutions. 
EU spending Citizenship, Freedom, Security and Justice 1 % The European Union as a global player 6 % Administration 6 % Cohesion - Sustainable growth 38 % Agriculture - Conservation and management of natural resources 49 % 
Democratic societies need complete and accurate publicly available information as a basis for discussion and decision-making, both with a view to improving financial management and ensuring accountability. 
In its capacity as an external auditor of the EU, the European Court of Auditors ensures that EU funds have been correctly accounted for regardless of where they are used and spent in accordance with the legislation with due regard to the optimal use of funds. 
The results of the Court's audit work are used by the Commission, Parliament and Council as well as by the Member States to improve EU financial management. 
In addition to the Court's work, many national supervisory authorities are auditing EU funds provided that they are managed and spent by public bodies in the Member States. 
Overview of internal and external control of the EU budget EU level 10 Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing bodies European Court of Auditors National Control Authorities National level External control Internal control 
WHAT AUDIT RESULTS DOES THE COURT DELIVER? We apply three different types of audits to 1: Auditing of the accounts, compliance audit (legal compliance audit) and performance audit, depending on which of the following three issues is the starting point of the audit: 11 • • • Does the annual accounts present, in all material respects, a true and fair view of the financial position, results and cash flows for the year in accordance with the applicable accounting framework? 
Under the EC Treaty, the Court is obliged to provide such a declaration - or opinion - on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. 
The annual statement of assurance is generally known by the French acronym DAS ("Déclaration d'Assurance"). 
1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, please refer to the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
The Court conducts its audit of the annual accounts of the EU in accordance with International Audit Principles (ISA), which are valid both in the public and private sectors. 
Together with the national control authorities, the Court actively participates in the further development of international audit standards promoted by the standardisation bodies (Intosai, IFAC) 2. 
In order to ensure that payments are consistent with the legislation and frameworks, the Court relies on the results of both its analysis of supervisory and control systems aimed at preventing or detecting and correcting legality and regulatory errors and a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2). 
Where systems are verified and found to be reliable, the number of transactions that the Court has to audit in order to reach a sound conclusion regarding their legality and regularity shall be reduced accordingly. 
In the selection of topics for its performance audits, the Court strives to identify audit areas where the greatest impact can be expected in terms of the potential for improvement identified in terms of the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending. 
12 2 Intosai (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions - IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) International Audit Organisation. 
13 KASTS 2 - The Court does not have the resources necessary to examine in detail all the operations of the EU budget. 
The Court monitors these operations until the final beneficiary of the aid, such as a farmer in southern Germany. 
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks, such as measuring the size of the agricultural area, in order to determine whether the relevant information in the application for support corresponds to the actual circumstances. 
Population of all agricultural payments As a statistical sample, the results can be extrapolated to the population concerned, i.e. a specific revenue or expenditure area, and, together with information resulting from the system evaluation, serve as the basis for an overall audit opinion. 
This graph shows how the Court proceeds to identify transactions for the purpose of the in-depth review. 
In practice, the Court's sampling methods are more complex, for example a two-stage sampling method is used to improve the efficiency of audit work. 
Random output of a representative sample Payment to an agricultural holding in Germany EUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUREUR 
14 Management structure AND ORGANISATION OF THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State. 
As shown in the organisation chart (see page 17), there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas (maintenance and management of natural resources - structural policies, transport, research and energy - external policies - own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies). 
The fifth audit group (CEAD or Coordination, Communication, Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development) is responsible for "horizontal" issues such as coordination in the area of assurance, quality assurance, development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports. 
In addition, an administrative committee composed of members of all audit groups is responsible for the preparatory treatment of all administrative matters requiring a formal Court decision. 
The Members of the Court are appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, in accordance with the proposals of each Member State for a term of office of six years, re-election is permitted. 
In addition to its function within the college, which is responsible for final decision-making on audits and opinions as well as on broader strategic and administrative issues, each member is primarily responsible for his or her specific tasks in the area of auditing. 
The Member then took over the presentation of the report in the audit group or in the Court and after its adoption in the European Parliament, Council and other interested third parties. 
With the accession of Bulgaria and Romania on 1 January 2007, the Court welcomed two new Members, Ms Nadeschda Sandolova and Mr Ovidiu Ispir. 
One year later, on 1 January 2008, the Court added three new members, Mr Michel Cretin (France), Mr Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) and Mr Harald Noack (Germany), as the term of office of their predecessors had expired. 
In addition, the Council extended the term of office of four members (Greece, the Netherlands, Austria and the United Kingdom) for a further six years. 
President Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (EE) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVICIENKE (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONCIC (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSANET (ES) Nadejda SANDOLOVA (BG) David BOSTOCK (UK) Gejza Zsolt HALÁSZ (HU) Jan KINŠT (CZ) Olavi ALA-NISSILÄ (FI) Michel CRETIN (FR) EUROPEAN ACCOUNT 2008 15 
16 OF THE PRESIDENT At the head of the European Court of Auditors is the President, who is elected by the members from their middle for three years, with re-election allowed. 
The role of the president is that of a Primus inter pares. 
The President represents the Court in all his external relations, in particular in his relations with the discharge authority, the other institutions of the European Union and the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States and beneficiary countries. 
On 16 January 2008, Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, the Portuguese member, became the 11st member. President of the Court elected. 
The Secretary-General is the highest-ranking member of the institution and is appointed by the Court for a period of six years and re-election is permitted. 
The Secretary-General is responsible for the Court's human resources and material management, including vocational training and the Directorate for Translation, each with one unit per official language (22), except Gaelic. 
The Secretary-General shall also be supervised by the Secretariat-General. 
The term of office of the current Secretary-General of the Court, Mr Michel Hervé, was extended on 1 July 2007. 
The staff of the European Court of Auditors amount to around 850 staff (836 at 31. December 2007) and includes auditors (484), translators (162) and administrative staff. 
The Court's auditors have a wide range of training profiles and relevant professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in the areas of accounting, financial management, internal and external audits and law and economics. 
Like the other EU institutions, the Court employs nationals from all Member States. 
The results of the audits of the Court's accounts and compliance audits mostly feed into annual reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds (EDF), as well as the specific annual reports on the Union agencies and bodies. 
The results of the performance audits will be published in the form of special reports during the year. 
We also publish opinions on draft legal acts affecting financial management. 
As the Court repeatedly noted in its annual reports on the implementation of the general budget of the EU, sufficient and appropriate internal control systems set up by the Commission and the Member States are of central importance to ensure proper EU financial management. 
In recent years, we have recognised the Commission's efforts to promote and implement improved internal control and administrative procedures, both in terms of the reliability of the EU's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions reported therein. 
The 2006 Annual Report continued this tradition by identifying areas with - sometimes significant - improvement needs as well as large spending areas where the situation remains unsatisfactory. 
The Court concluded that the 'final accounts of the European Communities', which shows the implementation of the 2006 EU budget, provide, in all material respects, a true and fair view of the Communities' financial position and results, except for the designation of excessive amounts of settlement liabilities and pre-financing in the balance sheet. 
Further improvements are therefore considered necessary to ensure that the newly introduced accrual accounting function is fully satisfactory and its potential as a reliable management and control tool can be fully exploited. 
3 This section is intended to introduce the Court's reports and opinions, and not to summarise its content. 
More nutritious information can be found in the full text of the Court documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after its adoption. 
With regard to the expenditure areas in which most payments are incurred - agriculture [mainly agricultural expenditure not covered by the Integrated Management and Control System (IACS)], structural measures, internal policies and large parts of external policies, the Court gives a negative opinion on legality and regularity and concludes that these areas of expenditure remain materially affected by error. 
In the case of payments in these areas, the supervisory and control systems could only partially limit the risk of legality and regularity errors in transactions. 
The Court stresses that complicated or unclear eligibility criteria or complex legislation had a significant impact on the legality and regularity of the transactions. 
However, the Court found a significant decrease in the estimated overall error rate in agricultural transactions and concluded that IACS, where properly applied, is an effective system to mitigate the risk of irregular expenditure. 
In addition, the Court found that the transactions underlying the commitments and revenue did not show material errors; this also applies to payments related to administrative expenditure, most of the pre-accession strategy and parts of external policies (see Box 3). 19 
20 KASTES 3 - SUMMARY SUMMARY ON THE RECHURITY AND ORDERALITY OF THE ACCESSORIES TO expenditure areas The table provides a summary of the overall assessment of the monitoring and control systems in accordance with the statements made in the respective chapters of the 2006 Annual Report and provides a rough overview of the Court's audit results in relation to representative samples of transactions. 
The systems are classified as "partially satisfactory" if some control arrangements have been found to work properly, while others are not. 
As a result, as a whole, they may not be able to contain the errors in the underlying transactions to a tolerable level. 
The report draws attention to some shortcomings regarding the "functioning of supervisory and control systems". 
Only the core statements are highlighted in the table. However, the respective details cannot be presented in full. 
Readers are advised to take the full analysis from the main part of the 2006 Annual Report. 
Specific assessments in the annual report on the financial year 2006 Common agricultural policy Operation of supervisory and control systems Error margin Own resources IACS CAP as a whole IACS non-IACS IACS Structural policies Internal policies Central services and delegations External policies Pre-accession strategy Phare/ISPA implementing bodies Sapard Administrative expenditure Operation of supervisory and control systems partly satisfactory error margin below 2 % (below materiality threshold) between 2 % and 5 % above 5 % 
In 2007, the Court also published an annual report on the European Development Funds (EDFs). 
While the Court was able to give an unrestricted opinion on the reliability of the EDF accounts, the audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the payments authorised under the responsibility of delegations in the beneficiary States was limited in view of the material error rate in these transactions. 
In addition, a further 28 special annual reports on the European Agencies and other decentralised bodies were published in 2007 as well as an annual report on the audit of the efficiency of the management of the European Central Bank. 21 
In 2007, the Court published a total of nine special reports published in 2007. 
The reports related to investigations of financial management issues in many different areas and ranged from cooperation in the field of VAT. (No 8/2007) up to capacity building in countries as remote as Angola and Vietnam (No 6/2007). 
The Court's audits revealed problems of various kinds with various consequences. 
The weaknesses identified by the Court in relation to the building expenditure of the EU institutions (No 2/2007) show that not all EU funds have been used meaningfully in this area. 
The deficiencies identified in the report on monitoring, inspection and sanctioning systems concerning the rules for the conservation of Community fisheries resources (No 7/2007) could have serious consequences not only for aquatic resources but also for the future of the fisheries sector. 
Notwithstanding the different ways of using funds in the different areas of the EU budget, the Court's reports highlight several common issues, which can be outlined as follows: 22 • • • Although the use of the means should take place both swiftly and efficiently, a tension ratio may arise when trying to achieve these two objectives at the same time. 
This topic is the subject of the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and the report on the management of the CARDS programme by the Commission in the Western Balkans countries (No 5/2007). 
Although planning does not guarantee effectiveness, it is of considerable importance. 
Strategic and long-term planning issues were raised in the reports on building expenditure of the EU institutions (No 2/2007) and on the evaluation of the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development (RTD) (No 9/2007) as well as in two reports related to external assistance, one of which referred to the CARDS programme (No 5/2007) and the other on the effectiveness of technical assistance in the context of capacity building (No 6/2007). 
The Commission's evaluations are a key element of its performance management system when it comes to assessing performance and, if necessary, highlighting the need for improvement. 
Where evaluations take place at a too early stage of the programming cycle, this means that progress is inadequate and insufficient data is available for evaluation purposes. 
On the other hand, the possibility of making timely changes during the current period and improvements before the start of the next may be reduced if evaluations are carried out at a later stage. 
The question of proper scheduling of evaluations was addressed both in the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and in the RTD evaluation report (No 9/2007). 
Evaluations and audits are more difficult to carry out if the objectives of the spending programmes are unclear. This was another issue addressed in the latter two reports. 
Management and controls of EU expenditure are subject to complex regulations, which must be clearly and unambiguously formulated in order to ensure that the funds are used for the intended purposes. 
The existence of clear definitions and rules is crucial if funds are to be collected or used as planned. 
This was the subject in the reports on the European Refugee Fund (No 3/2007) and on checks on goods and substitution by Member States on the export of agricultural products (No 4/2007). 
The lack of common definitions is one of the factors that may affect the completeness, comparability and reliability of data originating from the different Member States. 
This can have consequences if the data becomes the basis of decisions, for example, for allocation of funds. 
24 Special Report No 1/2007 Special Report No 1/2007 Special Report No 2/2007 Special Report No 3/2007 Special Report No 4/2007 Special Report No 5/2007 Special Report No 6/2007 Special Report No 7/2007 Special Report No 8/2007 Special Report No 9/2007 Implementation of the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds 2000-2006 Building expenditure of the Institutions Administration of the European Refugee Fund (2000-2004) Goods and substitution controls on exports of products for which a refund is granted management of the CARDS programme by the Commission's management of technical assistance in the framework of the capacity building of the European Refugee Fund (2000-2004) to improve the monitoring, inspection and evaluation system of the Community's fisheries resources on conservation rules 
The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management by issuing opinions on proposals or budgetary matters in the YEAR 2007 OPINION. 
These opinions are required as part of the adoption procedure of financial rules 4 or may be made at the request of one of the other Community institutions. In addition, the Court can provide opinions on its own initiative. 
The Court's opinions may address issues relating to specific expenditure areas, such as the two 2007 opinions concerning new regulations for the European Development Funds (Nos 2/2007 and 9/2007). 
However, they can also cover wider issues of EU financial management, such as the Court's opinion on the annual summaries, national declarations and audit work of national audit bodies (No 6/2007). 
Opinions are based on the Court's expertise on EU financial management issues acquired in the course of our audits over the years, and in some cases reference is made to certain audits. 
For example, in the opinion on ensuring the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation (No 3/2007), the Court refers to a recommendation in a previous special report that the Commission should take action to improve the reliability of sources of information on fraud. 
The need for simplification is a recurring issue in the Court's opinions (see, for example, Opinion No 7/2007 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities). 
In a 2007 opinion (No 6/2007), the Court presented its position on the annual summaries as well as the so-called national declarations provided voluntarily by some Member States on their own initiative. 
This opinion will be discussed in more detail in the section "The Court's position". 
4 5 Article 279 of the Treaty. 
Article 248(4). 
Most of the Court's opinions have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union and are available on the Court's website. 
Public financial control plays a key role in modern democratic societies from the point of view of efficient financial management. 
The audit activities shall be held accountable to the addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, as to whether their taxpayers' money is spent in a proper and appropriate manner. 
From this point of view, public financial control forms a central part of accountability and a useful basis for public discussion. 
In this respect, the Court's work has considerable potential for impact. 
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned - primarily in the European context of the Commission, the Parliament, the Council and the Member States. 
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the audit conclusions. 
Although the Court's audit work has its main impact on its published reports, there is already some effect throughout the audit itself. 
In particular, all audits result in the submission of detailed audit findings, which are sent to the audited body in order to confirm the accuracy of the Court's observations. 
The final report text is also subject to a "contradictory procedure". 
The replies of the audited body, namely the Commission, will be published together with the reports. 
In the replies, the audited body often acknowledges the problems identified by the Court and sets out the steps it intends to take to remedy them. 
Upon completion of the audit work and publication of a report, the results of the audit will be evaluated and used by the Parliament and the Council to carry out their political role of monitoring the use of the budget. 
In the context of the annual discharge procedure, the Court's reports form a basis for the Council's recommendation and Parliament's decision in this regard. 
In the 2006 discharge procedure, particular attention was paid to the conclusions put forward by the Court in the field of structural policies. 
In its 2006 discharge resolution, Parliament refers directly to an action plan proposed by the Commission as a direct consequence of the conclusions of the Court's annual report and calls for quarterly reports on the progress of its implementation. 
Parliament also calls for a better insight into the corrective measures taken to address errors and weaknesses. 
Special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure. 
However, given the fact that they are published in the course of the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate on this matter have usually taken place at an earlier stage at the meetings of the Parliament and of the Council. 
A good example of a possible follow-up is provided by the most recent special report on building expenditure (No 2/2007). 
In fact, the Parliament had already entrusted its administration with the preparation of a report examining whether it would be practicable to create a European Building Office to be responsible for the construction and maintenance of the buildings of the institutions and bodies of the European Union. 
The Court's audit report on controls carried out by Member States on the export of agricultural products (No 4/2007) can be given as a further example. 
The Council and the Commission responded without delay to the recommendations made by the Court by amending the existing legislation. 
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by their topic in the relevant media, which attracts greater attention and encourages public discussion. 
The media is the most immediate source of information for citizens. 
As a rule, media coverage for the Court's annual report is quite comprehensive, but some special reports have also been followed up with interest by the press. 
For example, the fisheries report (No 7/2007) has attracted great attention in the media. 
An Extraordinary Fisheries Council was convened to discuss the Court's report and the Commission initiated a procedure that could lead to amendments to the legislation to remedy the identified deficiencies. 
This is an example of a report that, due to its relevance and up-to-dateness, was able to make a particularly valuable contribution to the decision-making process. 
This section provided some guidance on the impact of the Court's reports published in 2007. 
Further information on the follow-up of previous observations by the Court can be found in the respective chapters of its annual report. 
The Court's most frequently remarked in its last annual report is that despite the measures taken, the deficiencies identified in the previous year were only partially addressed. 
When considering the impact of the Court's work, the opinions should also be considered. 
The Court intends to analyse increasingly the long-term impact of its work - audits and opinions. 
This can be illustrated by the example set out in Box 4. 
27 KASTEN 4 - The OPINION OF THE HOUSE TO 'Single PRESS' Over the years, the Court has published several opinions highlighting ways of strengthening the overall internal control system for the EU budget. 
The opinion on the 'Single Audit' (No 2/2004) in 2004 made a landmark contribution in this regard. 
In this opinion, the Court proposes to incorporate the definition and implementation of all internal control into a single integrated control framework, which includes common principles and targets and ensures that costs and benefits are proportionate. 
The opinion on the 'Single Audit' developed into a reference document for the Commission but also for the Court, for example in 2007 in its observations on the definition of effective and efficient internal control in the updated Implementing Rules of the Financial Regulation (Opinion No 1/2007). 
The integrated audit approach is reflected in the Commission's Action Plan for an Integrated Internal Control Framework 2006. 
The Commission has taken steps to emphasise the role and responsibilities of Member States in the area of internal control. This includes the new obligation to submit annual summaries of audit opinions, declarations and audits carried out in accordance with the regulations applicable to each expenditure area. 
The Commission and Member States have taken initiatives to strengthen the involvement of Member States in the accountability cycle of EU funds. 
In part, the aim is to address the problem of the material error rates with regard to the legality and regularity identified in the main expenditure areas of the budget, especially in those areas where the Commission and the Member States share management. 
Significant recent developments include the obligation for Member States to provide annual summaries of available audit results and declarations, the voluntary initiatives of some Member States to submit national declarations and the decision of some national control authorities to prepare audit reports on the management of EU funds. 
In our Opinion No 6/2007, the Court considers that all of these elements, where properly implemented, could lead to improved management and control of EU funds. 
The opinion sets out the conditions under which these elements can provide added value and can be used by the Court in compliance with the requirements in international audit principles. 
As annual summaries form an integral part of the internal control system, the Court will assess in its usual audit procedures the extent to which they improve the functioning of internal control. 
Annual summaries can lead to better overall control of EU funds in areas under shared management, in so far as they highlight strengths and weaknesses. 
National declarations are based on voluntary initiatives of certain Member States; they are handed over at the highest level and submitted to national parliaments. 
Although they do not, on their own, constitute conclusive audit evidence, they can be understood as a novel element of internal control and provide valuable information on the implementation of the EU budget. 
The Court recognises the potential benefits of national declarations and national audit work in raising awareness in Member States of the importance of internal control of EU funds. 
The audit work of the national control authorities (national audit reports) related to the legality and regularity of EU expenditure or with the national declarations could provide audit evidence to the Court if it can be satisfied that the audit work is usable and quality in accordance with international audit principles. 
In this case, the Court will take into account the activity notes issued by national control authorities when planning and carrying out its own audits. 
National declarations and national audit reports contain statements on control systems. 
National declarations may also contain certain audit opinions on the legality and regularity of the transactions. 
Experience shows that the main risk to the legality and regularity of transactions is the reliability of the information provided by beneficiaries when applying for EU funds, and less in the way in which this information is processed by the Member States and the Commission. 
The declaration that systems function as required by the EU regulations alone cannot guarantee the legality and regularity of the transactions in question. 
Recognising the need for a stronger role of national supervisory authorities in the overall context of accountability of EU spending, the Contact Committee of the EU Supreme Audit Institutions has set up a working group on the harmonisation of audit standards and standards specifically tailored to the EU context. 
Common audit approaches and methods increase the possibility for the Court to rely on the work of the national supervisory authorities, provided that the quality of this work is directly proven. 
In September 2007, the Commission published a consultation paper to launch an open debate on EU finances as part of a far-reaching review of the budget. 
At the beginning of April 2008, the Court presented its contribution to the debate, highlighting the main principles to be taken into account in the design of new programmes in order to provide European added value in terms of clarity of objectives, the pursuit of simplification, the sense of reality, transparency and accountability. 
Among other things, the Court recommended that the following aspects be taken into account: • • • • • Alignment of spending programmes not by input, but by output; better use of the concept of acceptable risk in the design and adoption of spending programmes; The degree of discretion to be given to national or regional authorities in managing and accounting expenditure programmes; Considering whether VAT own resources are still a useful part of the own resources system, calling for a review of all the compensatory mechanisms based on the guiding principles for the own resources system - equity, transparency, cost-effectiveness, simplicity and contribution of each Member State. 29 
30 THE WORK OF THE HOUSE IN THE YEAR 2007 AND HINAUS DIRECTIVED in the year 2007 The Court presents its future audit work every year in a work programme submitted to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and available to the public on the Court's website. 
We monitor the implementation of the work programme as a basis for improvements in the following years. 
In 2007, there was a significant increase in the number of specific annual reports adopted on the European Agencies and other decentralised bodies. 
The number of special reports and opinions was similar to those in previous years. 
The annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Funds have been published as planned. 
Results (Number) 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special Reports 10 6 11 9 Annual Reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 Special Annual Reports 23 20 23 29 Opinions 2 11 8 9 In the area of auditing and compliance audit (compliance audit), the Court first applied its new Assurance model in 2007 to achieve sufficiently robust results in the most efficient way. 
We also decided to provide more detailed information on the results of our Statement of Assurance, in particular on the results of the audit of individual transactions. 
In the Court's view, this, together with a schematic presentation of the results of the system assessments, provides useful information for monitoring purposes, which makes progress in the area of financial management measurable. 
The Court is constantly striving to improve all aspects of its work. 
In 2005, the Court decided to undergo a peer review procedure. 
In doing so, senior staff of a small number of Supreme Audit Institutions assess the organisation or results of a sister body on the basis of professional standards and in the light of their respective professional experience. 
As all Supreme Audit Institutions have similar tasks, peer review procedures can make a very valuable contribution to the improvement of audit bodies. 
As part of the preparation for the peer review process, the Court carried out a self-assessment in 2006 which gave the institution the opportunity to explore its strengths and weaknesses. 
In 2007, the Court adopted an action plan to address the weaknesses identified. 
The plan included a total of 23 actions, six of which were the subject of task forces involving members of the Court and staff from different areas and hierarchy levels of the institution: 31 1. Mission statement, mission, strategic goals and planning 2. Management structure (leadership), structure and organisation 3. Internal performance indicators 4. Employees and internal communication 5. External stakeholders and communication approaches, external communication strategy 6. The results of these Task Forces presented in 2007 included new statements on mission, mission statement and values as well as strategic objectives for the Court, a new strategy and guidelines for internal communication and a report on ways to improve reporting quality. The peer review process started at the end of 2007. 
Quantitative AND QUALITATIVE SECURITY OF THE audit work Several of the adopted strategic objectives concern the output of the institution. 
The Court strives to make the impact of its audits more visible through the selection of relevant topics, timeliness and a clearer and more reader-friendly design of its reports. 
It has also begun to increase the number of performance audits and improve their quality. 
In 2007, considerable efforts were made to further develop the methodological foundations of the Court's work as an essential prerequisite for high-quality audit work. 
A new manual for accounting and compliance audits has been developed, which will be finalised in 2008. 
The new Handbook of the Court's performance audit was adopted at the end of 2006 and was therefore available to auditors for the first time as guidance in 2007. 
In order to further improve the quality of the Court's work in the field of performance audit, additional guidelines have been developed and several seminars and training events have been held. 
In addition, we set new ambitious targets in terms of the use of information technologies. 
In the new IT strategy adopted in 2007, the Court expresses the intention to expand its capacity to carry out IT audits and to make the use of computer-assisted audit techniques (CAATs) a common practice for audits of accounting and performance audits. 
It is important that the amount and quality of the Court's output can be properly assessed. 
The Court is about to develop performance indicators that should enable it to provide a variety of performance data in future Annual Activity Reports. 
In the future, the Court plans to develop a methodology for assessing the institution's cost-effectiveness. 32 
In 2007, the European Court of Auditors celebrated its 30th anniversary as an external audit body of the European Union. 
The celebrations began with an increased presence of the Court (seminars, information stands, etc.) in most capitals of the European Union as part of the activities on the occasion of Europe Day 2007. 
In addition, an exhibition was opened on 17 October 2007 under the motto "30 years of Court of Auditors", which included a series of thematic display boards, a sound show with more than 150 photos and video excerpts as well as numerous documents. 
The Luxembourg Central Bank issued a silver commemorative coin on this occasion. 
On 18 October 2007, the European Court of Auditors organised a seminar entitled 'The future of public financial control in the EU', attended by a number of high-level experts from EU circles and institutional leaders. 
Many of the tasks foreseen in the Action Plan concern communication, which were devoted to increased efforts in 2007. 
Among other things, a new website was launched and information material on the annual report was published in a more accessible format, and the Court agreed to a new procedure for presenting its special reports to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament. 
Further developments, mostly directly or partially linked to the Action Plan, concerned the modernisation of the Court's accounting system and new strategy documents in the areas of human resources and IT. 
In addition, the Court started modernising its information systems in the areas of audit, translation, knowledge and communication, management information and staff. 
In addition, the Court made progress in 2007 in its preparations for a second extension of its main building, which is necessary due to the recent and planned staff increase. 
7 In 2008, as in previous years, the Court will present an annual report on the European Development Funds and special annual reports on European Agencies and other bodies in addition to its annual report on the general budget of the EU. 
The planning of expenditure under the general budget of the EU is carried out in seven-year cycles, so-called financial frameworks. 
2007 was the first year of the new financial framework focusing on policy implementation. 
The Court takes this opportunity to take a closer look at a previously introduced innovation, namely the Commission's shift to activity-based budgeting and activity-related management, as well as the structure of the budget into 31 policy areas with around 220 activities. 
The annual report for the financial year 2007 will be divided into groups of policy areas largely but not fully aligned with the new headings of the financial framework. 
Box 5 provides an overview, broken down by group, of the selected audit tasks that have been completed or are about to be finalised and on which special reports are expected to be published in 2008 or early 2009. 
34 7 Fuller and more detailed information on the Court's future work can be found in the Court's work programme for 2008 on our website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
35 KASTEN 5 Preservation and management of natural resources Implementation of the milk quota system in the Member States that joined the EU on 1 May 2004 Management of EU support measures in favour of public cereal storage Accounting clearance procedures in the field of the common agricultural policy Structural measures, transport, research and energy procedures for auditing and evaluating large investment projects in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods The EU Solidarity Fund - How fast, effective and flexible it operates? 
The Intelligent Energy - Europe Programme (2003-2006) Effectiveness of expenditure under Structural Funds for wastewater treatment in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods The Structural Policy Instrument for Pre-Accession (ISPA) 2000-2006 Are executive agencies an appropriate instrument for implementing the EU budget? 
External policy areas Rehabilitation assistance from the European Commission following the tsunami and hurricane Mitch Effective EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies, internal policies Binding tariff information (BTI) How do Union agencies achieve results? In the selection of new audit tasks, the Court has based a number of priority issues on the basis of a number of priorities, to which particular attention will be paid in 2008. 
In accordance with the EC Treaty, the European Court of Auditors has to carry out its audit in "link" with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States, whereas the Amsterdam Treaty added: "The Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies shall cooperate with confidence while respecting their independence." This scheme was extended in the Treaty of Nice by explicitly calling on the Court of Auditors in the 18th Declaration of the Final Act to set up a committee for contacts with the national audit bodies, in which all SAI Presidents and the Court meet annually to discuss matters of common interest. 
The ongoing contacts are maintained by the liaison officers appointed by each SAI. 
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices. 
In 2007, a delegation of the Court took part in the 3 rd and 4th In December, the Finnish Court of Auditors held an annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the SAI of the European Union in Helsinki. 
The meeting focused on risk management, acceptable risk and integrated internal control system in the management of EU funds and discussed the role of SAIs in this area. 
The Court will host the next meeting of the Contact Committee on 1st and 2. December 2008. 
Two liaison officers were held in 2007 to prepare the Contact Committee meeting. 
The first meeting took place in The Hague on 23 and 24 April and the second meeting took place in Luxembourg on 11 and 12 October, chaired by the European Court of Auditors. 
Recent developments in the field of EU financial management were discussed at both meetings and highlighted the work of the Cooperation Task Force, which deals with the Contact Committee itself, its functioning and opportunities for improvement; in this context, proposals were made for a more efficient design of workflows. 
The meeting also covered the activities of the various working and expert groups set up by the Contact Committee to address specific issues of common interest. 
The Court attended meetings of the Network of Candidate Countries and Candidate Countries "in spe" (Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey). 
The Presidents of the SAIs of Candidate Countries and Candidate Countries "in spe" and the European Court of Auditors met in Skopje (former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) on 11 and 12 June 2007. 
An important aspect of all efforts to improve practical cooperation in the auditing of EU funds concerns the audit principles used. 
Against this background, in 2006, the Contact Committee decided to set up a working group chaired by one of the members of the Court, Mr Josef Bonnici, to develop "common audit standards and comparable audit standards based on internationally recognised audit principles and adapted to the EU context". 
In 2007, the first meetings were held at the European Court of Auditors in Luxembourg. 
In December 2007, a progress report of the working group was submitted to the Helsinki Contact Committee and a related resolution was adopted. 
The Court continued its active participation and involvement in the improvement of international audit principles through its membership in European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, namely Eurosai and Intosai. 
As part of Eurosai, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and the IT Working Group and participates in the Eurosai Training Committee. 
The Court hosted a seminar on "Analysis of the most common IT problems of SAIs" in Luxembourg on 17 and 18 April 2007 as well as a seminar entitled "Economic audit - Where do we stand?" from 4 to 6 April 2007. December 2007. 
Since the Court became a full member of Intosai in 2004, he has actively participated in the Financial Audit Guidelines (FAS), the Subcommittee for the Audit of Legal Standards (CAS) and the Subcommittee for Performance Audits (PAS). 
The Court participated in all the FAS meetings held in 2007 and provided active contributions to the guidelines issued and dealt with. 
The FAS appointed the ERH representative (Mr Jesús Lázaro Cuenca) as one of the FAS representatives for the project of the Steering Committee of the Committee for Technical Standards on Audit Quality. In addition, the Court attended the CAS meeting in New Delhi in January 2007. 
In addition, the Court's Directorate for Translation provided resources for the linguistic revision of a document in Spanish and German. 
In addition, the Court took XIX. INTOSAI Congress (Incosai) from 5 to 10 November 2007 in Mexico, where two main topics were discussed: "National debt, its management, accountability and audit" and "economic evaluation systems based on generally accepted key indicators - targets and performance indicators". 
In 2008, the Court will continue its active participation in the Eurosai and Intosai working groups, seminars and meetings. 
37 Contact Committee in Helsinki, December 2007 
38 PERSONAL PERSONAL POLICY The most important asset of the Court is its employees. 
They have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output. 
In its recent modernisation of human resources policy, the Court focused on recruitment, training, career development and improvement of working conditions. 
Proportion of men and women at 31. In December 2007, the proportion of men and women among the 836 active staff (officials, temporary and contract staff, but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) was almost the same. 
As shown in the graph below, the proportion of women employed at the Court has increased since 2001 as a result of the Court's efforts to achieve gender balance. 
Proportion of men and women among the Court's staff 46 % 12/2001 54 % WOMEN MEN 50 % 12/2007 50 % 
The graph below provides an analysis of the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility at 31. December 2007. 
Like the other European institutions, the Court pursues an equal opportunities policy in terms of human resources management and recruitment and recognises the need to more actively promote the rise of a larger number of women to senior management levels in the Court. 
13 of the 56 Directors and Heads of Unit (23 %) are women; this represents an increase of 3 % compared to 2006. 
Most of them are employed by the Translation Directorate and the administrative services. 
12/2006 12/2006 M 67 % F 20 % 12/2006 12/2007 M 77 % 12/2006 M 80 % 12/2007 12/2007 M 64 % F 23 % 39 F 68 % M 32 % M 32 % W 68 % F 68 % Office Councils - Secretaries (AST level) F 33 % F 36 % INSTITUTIONS MEN MANAGEMENTS - Secretaries (AST level) Financial Audit/Administrative Councils (AD level) Directors and Heads of Division/Department/Head of Auditing/Administrative Councils (AD level) Directors and Heads of Department/Head of Unit The ECA's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff consists of both officials and temporary staff. 
In 2007, the Court hired 179 employees: 117 officials, 35 temporary staff and 27 contract staff. 
This high number reflects the progress made in 2007 in filling vacancies. 
Recruitment depends on the availability of reserve lists of EPSO competitions and whether there are sufficient candidates; the procedure is sometimes quite lengthy and has the effect of temporarily having an exceptionally high proportion of vacancies. 
The Court is constantly striving to reduce the deadlines in the recruitment procedure. 
The graph below shows that the Court is a "young" institution (63 % of staff are under 44 years of age). 
Of the 102 farm staff aged 55 or older, there are 27 of the 56 directors and department/department heads; this means that over the next five to ten years, there will be substantial new appointments at senior management levels. 
40 38 68 94 114 81 147 149 ALTER 25-29 45-49 30-34 50-54 35-39 55-59 40-44 20-24 > 60 153 Audit missions During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and other beneficiary countries of EU funds to obtain appropriate audit evidence. 
Visits usually apply to central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as the respective final recipients. 
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the length of a test trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of test and distance. 
In 2007, travel expenses related to audit missions amounted to EUR 0.49 million (compared to EUR 0.43 million in 2006). 
This represents a significant investment to ensure sufficient audit coverage at all levels and locations of the management of EU funds. 
The graphs below provide an overview of the number of audit missions carried out by the Court in 2007 in the EU Member States and outside the Union. 
Examination trips to Member States in 2007 50 40 30 20 10 0 Examinations to candidate countries and other non-Member States in 2007 4 3 2 1 0 41 Serbia and Montenegro Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Germany Portugal Italy Spain Belgium Greece Czech Republic France United Kingdom Denmark Netherlands Ireland Finland Austria Poland Lithuania Hungary Bulgaria Bulgaria Slovenia Slovakia Romania Latvia Malta Russia Moldova - Ukraine Lesotho - Swaziland Guinea Tunisia Bosnia-Herzegovina Albania Togo Sri Lanka Sudan Sudan Niger Nicaragua Morocco Madagascar Mali Kenya Ghana 
In 2007, the Court's staff completed an average of 12 days of professional training. 
The proportion of specialised training activities increased significantly compared to 2006. 
Key developments in the field of training activities include the introduction of training courses on the Court's performance audit handbook and related guidelines, the Commission's accounting rules, the use of accrual accounting (ABAC), SAP financial systems and other IT and IT audit applications. 
Language courses accounted for 52 % of the total number of training days in 2007. 
For the years 2008-2011, the Court has adopted a guidance plan for continuing vocational training, with a focus on the implementation of personal development plans for the individual staff. 
The Court also examines the possibility of introducing a European Public Sector Auditor Diploma (PSAD). 
Box 6 provides a portrait of the staff of a selected unit or department within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work carried out, the employees involved, their background and professional experience. 42 
43 KASTEN 6 - THE Fisheries Report - RESULTS A RELATED TEAMING The report on fisheries resource monitoring, inspection and sanction systems adopted by the Court in 2007 (Special Report No 7/2007) caused considerable attention both among policy makers and in the media. 
Articles in numerous newspapers, as well as the rapid responses to both the Commission and the Council, proved the relevance and up-to-dateness of the report. 
The starting point for this success was a team of a dozen auditors from the Court who worked closely with the rapporteur member, Mr Kikis Kazamias, and his cabinet. 
Mr Emmanuel Rauch, a French auditor who has been working at the Court for several years, and his Spanish colleague Mr Alejandro Ballester were the team leaders of the audit during the preparatory phase in autumn 2005. 
The audit included missions to six Member States, from Denmark to Italy, both to central managing authorities to gain insight into the control systems and to the main ports to assess how the systems work in practice. 
As far as the language skills of the team members were insufficient, translators from the Court's language service provided assistance. 
The auditors' team is very proud to have contributed to the gradual recognition by policy makers of the serious consequences of the way in which the Community's fisheries policy is implemented. 
Other auditing authorities have also shown interest in the audit, as it provides suggestions and know-how, for example, for an upcoming audit on a similar issue in the Baltic Sea countries. 
From left to right, from bottom to top 1. Series Alejandro BALLESTER GALLARDO, Audit Board (ES - 5 years at the Court); Kikis KAZAMIAS, Member of the Court (CY - 3 years at the Court); Riemer HAAGSMA, Head of Unit (NL - 30 years at the Court); Emmanuel RAUCH, Main Audit Board (FR - 14 years at the Court). 
2. Jean-Marc DANIELE series, Cabinet Attaché (FR - 5 years at the Court); François OSETE, Head of Cabinet (FR/ES - 23 years at the Court); Robert MARKUS, Main Audit Board (NL - 13 years at the Court); Bertrand TANGUY, Financial Audit Board i.E. (FR - 3 years at the Court); Pietro PURICELLA, Main Audit Board (IT - 11 years at the Court). 
3. Anne POULSEN series, translator (DA - 16 years at the Court); Maria del Carmen JIMENEZ, Chief Auditor (ES - 15 years at the Court); Cécile RAMIREZ, secretariat assistant (FR - 5 years at the Court); Neophytos NEOPHYTOU, Cabinet Attaché (CY - 3 years at the Court); Krzysztof ZALEGA, Audit Board (PL - 4 years at the Court). 
Other team members (not in the photo) Valéria ROTA, Audit Board member (IT - 8 years at the Court); Adeline DOMINGUES, secretariat assistant (FR - 8 years at the Court); Juha VANHATALO, Financial Audit Board (FI - 3 years at the Court); Paul STAFFORD, Head of Unit (UK - 18 years at the Court). 
44 FINANCIAL INFORMATIONS HOUSES The Court's budget accounts for around 0.1 % of the total EU budget and 1.8 % of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies. 
In the last three years, there has been an increase of 17 %. 
This increase is primarily linked to the consequences of EU enlargements in 2004 and 2007. 
A further significant increase can be seen in the Court's construction appropriations (the appropriations for buildings practically doubled between 2006 and 2008), as future newly recruited staff will be accommodated in a second extension (K3 building), which is scheduled to be completed in 2013. 
Staff resources account for around 72 % of the total budget in 2007. 
Budget 2006 2007 2008 Use of appropriations Final appropriations (in EUR 1 000) Members of the institution 11 350 11 270 12 061 Officials and temporary agents 77 907 82 583 88 712 Other staff and external services 4 223 4 014 4 248 Mission expenses 3 100 3 000 3 212 Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 1 923 2 056 286 Title 1 - Total 98 503 102 923 110 519 buildings 6 287 8 126 12 110 Data processing and telecommunications 4 575 518 5 879 Equipment and furniture: Acquisition, rent and maintenance 1 320 1 396 1 147 Current operating expenditure 807 435 425 meetings and conferences 352 872 876 Information and publications 1 353 1 810 1 813 Title 2 - Total 14 694 18 157 22 250 Court of Auditors - Total 113 197 121 080 132 769 
The Court's Internal Audit Service is designed to assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives through a systematic, methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures. 
In addition, Internal Audit proposes to increase the efficiency of the Court. 
More generally, it is a matter of assessing the performance of individual services in the implementation of policies, programmes and measures with the aim of continuous improvement. 
In 2007, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused on auditing the accounts (including supporting the work of the Court's external auditor), the audit of the ex ante audit, the implementation of internal control standards, the recent enlargement of the Court (the so-called K2 building) and the Court's recruitment procedures. 
The Court's Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert, monitors the work of the Internal Auditor and ensures its independence. 
It also examines and approves the work programme and the reports of the Internal Auditor and, where necessary, instructs them to carry out specific audit tasks. 
The Committee met eight times in 2007. 
The audit opinion of the Court's external auditor for the financial year 2006 submitted on 28 September 2007 states: "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31. In accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and its implementing rules, the generally accepted accounting principles and the internal rules of the European Court of Auditors, the audit procedures carried out during the external audit did not call into question the adequacy of the administrative and accounting procedures, internal control and compliance with the applicable legislation. 
C 292 of 5.12.2007. 
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2007 Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities 2008-45 pp. - 21 x 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 
You can request the list of our worldwide sales outlet network by fax: (352) 29 29-42758. http://eca.europa.eu/portal/page/portal/eca_main_pages/splash_page 
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS OFFICE FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES L2985 LUXEMBOURG ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 QJ-AA-08-001-EN-C 
ISSN 1684-0666 EN JARRANTY REPORT FOR 2008 European Court of Auditors 
European Court of Auditors for 2008 
2 Europe Direct is designed to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Fee-free phone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Some mobile operators do not grant access to 00 800 numbers or charge a fee. 
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2009 ISBN 978-9207-202-5 (c) European Communities, 2009 reprinted with reference. 
Printed in Belgium PRESSED ON CHLORFREI BEATHER PAPER 
The Court of Auditors, as an independent EU audit body, makes a unique contribution to improving EU financial management and promoting transparency and accountability by providing audit services and performing a role model. 
For the Court, 2008 was characterised by a significant number of significant progress and important developments in the area of EU financial management, which is further addressed in this Annual Activity Report. 
One defining event was the peer review of the European Court of Auditors carried out by an international expert panel, which led to a positive conclusion on the usefulness of the Court's audit management framework and the independence and objectivity of its work. 
In its 2007 annual report published in November 2008, the Court issued a full audit opinion on the reliability of the EU's accounts for the first time. 
However, as in previous years, he found too high levels of legality and regularity errors in the areas of the EU budget, which accounted for most of the expenditure. 
In 2008, we also recognised the developments launched at EU and national level, which are expected to lead to significant improvements in EU financial management in the future. 
Two examples set out in this Annual Activity Report concern the ongoing process of reviewing the EU budget to which the Court has actively contributed and the Communication on tolerable risk of error issued by the Commission. 
In the area of international relations, the Court took the lead in organising the discussions of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the European Union on EU budgetary reform and the revised Lisbon Strategy, as well as the host role in a recent workshop on the role of the EU-ORKB in the context of actions to address the current financial crisis. 
As our audit environment is undergoing rapid change, we are prompted to adapt through internal reforms in order to better meet our obligations under the Treaty and to be able to effectively fulfil its mission. 
A significant step in the implementation of our mission and mission statement in 2008 was the development of an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012. 
The audit strategy is based on two priority objectives: Maximise the overall impact of the audits and improve efficiency by making the best use of resources. 
These objectives will significantly shape the Court's work programmes during that period, as well as its efforts to continuously improve and exploit the main challenges and opportunities identified in the peer review process in relation to the exploitation of potential for improvement. 
Thanks to its competence and commitment, the Court's staff play a central role in carrying out the audit work carried out by the Court as an independent guardian of the financial interests of citizens in order to improve financial management. 
On behalf of the Court and on my own behalf, I would like to thank all employees for their commitment and professional work last year. 
Special thanks for his personal commitment and commitment is due to our former Secretary-General, Michel Hervé, who was retired at the end of 2008. 
I wish you a pleasant reading of this Annual Activity Report, which provides an insight into the Court and an overview of the activities carried out in 2008. 
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5 
The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing EU finances in accordance with the Treaty. 
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, characterised by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism and the quality and impact of its work, providing valuable support to its audience in order to improve EU financial management. 
Values Independence, integrity and impartiality Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and employees. 
Professionalism Maintains a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work. 
Creation of relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of its audience and contain important and forward-looking statements. 
Excellence and efficiency acknowledging the value of the individual, supporting the further development of special skills and rewarding performance. 
Role AND WORK OF THE HOUSE WORK IS THE EU Budget The European Union budget amounts to around EUR 120 billion, representing approximately 1 % of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States. 
However, for some Member States, EU funding plays an important role in financing public activities. For example, the total budget volume is close to the GNI of some Member States. 
The revenue of the European Union consists mainly of contributions from Member States derived from their gross national income (GNI - 65.4 %) or on the VAT levied by the Member States (VAT). 16.9 % are based. 
Customs duties and agricultural duties (the so-called traditional own resources - 16.5 %) also account for a substantial part of the revenue. 
Over time, the composition of the budget has undergone changes, with agriculture and cohesion policy being the main expenditure areas (see Box 1). 
BOX 1 HOW DOES THE EU SPEND ITS MONEY? 
The EU budget is financed from financial contributions from Member States (mainly based on national GNI) as well as customs and agricultural duties. 
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than national budgets, partly due to the different areas of competence. 
For example, the Union is not responsible for the social security systems, which usually account for a substantial part of national expenditure. 
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which is usually made in the form of payments to farmers throughout the Union, accounts for the main share of household expenditure, albeit with a decreasing trend at present. 
In 2009, 45.3 % of the budget is earmarked for the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly for agriculture and rural development. 
Since the 1980s, a significant proportion of the expenditure on cohesion measures, i.e. regional and social development, has been used. This involves co-financing a wide range of projects - from road construction projects in Poland to training for the unemployed in Spain. 
In 2009, spending on sustainable growth amounts to 39.6 % of the budget, of which cohesion measures account for the lion's share. 
This budgetary area also covers most of the EU's research funding. 
In addition, EU funds contribute significantly to development aid and humanitarian aid, as well as to countries that have close ties with the Union or are candidate countries. 
6.7 % of the budget is spent on the administration of the Community institutions. 
EU citizenship, freedom, security and justice The European Union as a global player Administration Agriculture - Conservation and management of natural resources 45.3 % 1.2 % 7.2 % 6.7 % EU spending Cohesion - sustainable growth Source: General budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009 (OJ L 69, 13.3.2009). 39.6 % 
The budget is determined annually, on the basis of the seven-year financial framework, by the Council, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and the directly elected European Parliament on a proposal from the European Commission. 
The Commission draws up the budget and is also responsible for its implementation. 
The majority of the budget, in particular in the area of agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure, will be implemented in cooperation with the Member States. 
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on applications from the beneficiaries themselves, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union. 8 
Democratic societies need complete and accurate publicly available information as a basis for discussion and decision-making, both with a view to improving financial management and ensuring accountability. 
The EU, as well as its Member States, has an external audit body, which plays the role of an independent guardian of the financial interests of citizens. 
In its capacity as an external auditor of the EU, the European Court of Auditors ensures that EU funds have been correctly accounted for regardless of where they are used and spent in accordance with the legislation with due regard to the optimal use of funds. 
The results of the Court's audit work are used by the Parliament, the Council and the Commission as well as by the Member States to improve EU financial management. 
The Court's work is an important basis for the annual discharge procedure, during which Parliament decides, on the basis of Council recommendations, whether the Commission has fulfilled its responsibility for budget implementation in the previous year. 
Despite its designation, the Court has no judicial powers. 
In the budget areas under shared management, Member States shall cooperate with the Commission in setting up supervisory and control systems, i.e. internal control, to ensure that the funds are used properly and properly. 
Internal control thus has a European as well as a national dimension. 
In addition to the Court's work, many national supervisory authorities are auditing EU funds provided that they are managed and spent by public bodies in the Member States. 
9 ABOUT THE INTERNATIONAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EUHAUSHALTS EU-level Internal Control External Control Commission (DGs, Internal Audit Service) European Court of Auditors Member States Implementing bodies National Control Authorities National level 
(Audit) WHAT REPORTS THE HOF ON YOUR RESULTS? 
The Court publishes the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: Annual reports - including the results of the audit of the accounts in the form of a statement of assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and the activities under the European Development Funds3. 
Special annual reports - the results of the audit of the accounts of the agencies and bodies of the Communities. 
Special reports - with the results of selected profitability or compliance audits. 
10 1 Further information on the Court's audit methods can be found in the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
2 According to the EC Treaty, the Court is obliged to provide such a declaration - or opinion - on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. 
In this context, the underlying transactions are usually payments to the final beneficiaries at the expense of the EU budget. 
The annual statement of assurance is generally known by the French acronym DAS ("Déclaration d'Assurance"). 
In contrast to practice in the Member States, the Court makes such a statement on the EU budget as a whole. 
3 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are based both on international agreements between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries. 
The Court conducts its audit of the annual accounts of the EU in accordance with International Audit Principles (ISA), which are valid both in the public and private sectors. 
However, the existing international audit principles do not fully cover the compliance audit carried out by the Court. 
Together with the national control authorities, the Court actively participates in the further development of international audit standards promoted by the standardisation bodies (INTOSAI, IFAC)4. 
In order to ensure that payments are consistent with the legislation and frameworks, the Court relies on the results of both its analysis of supervisory and control systems aimed at preventing or detecting and correcting legality and regularity errors and a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2). 
Where systems are verified and found to be reliable, the number of transactions that the Court has to audit in order to reach a sound conclusion regarding their legality and regularity will be reduced accordingly. 
Other sources, such as the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions. 
In performance audits, the Court uses a variety of audit methods to assess the management and monitoring systems and to assess performance data against the criteria derived from the legislation with regard to the principles of sound financial management. 
In the selection of topics for its performance audits, the Court strives to identify audit areas where the greatest impact can be expected in terms of the potential for improvement identified in terms of the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending. 11 were concluded, as well as decisions of the Council on the Association of Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs). 
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see External Relations, Development and Enlargement) and partly through delegations in the beneficiary countries. 
The EDF investment facilities are managed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and are not subject to the Court's audit mandate. 
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions - IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) 
12 CASTES 2 THE PROCESSIONS OF THE HOUSE INSTRUCTIONS OF THE EUHAUSHAL We do not have the resources necessary to examine in detail all the transactions financed by the EU budget. 
In the context of the preparation of the DAS, it therefore uses statistical sampling methods to obtain a result representative of the population as a whole. 
The sample shall be selected by randomly selecting a representative sample of underlying transactions from all areas of the Union budget, such as agriculture, for in-depth examination. 
The Court monitors these operations until the final beneficiary of the aid, such as a farmer in France. 
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks - e.g. measuring the size of the agricultural area - in order to determine whether the relevant information in the application for support corresponds to the actual circumstances. 
By being a statistical sample, the results can be extrapolated to the population concerned, i.e. a specific revenue or expenditure area, and, together with information resulting from the system assessment, serve as the basis for an overall audit opinion. 
In order to determine how the opinion was to be assessed, in practice, the Court compares the results of its audits on statistical samples with a certain limit which it considers reasonable - the so-called materiality threshold. 
Random selection of a representative sample Payment to an agricultural holding in France Population of payments in the agricultural sector 
The Court of Auditors acts as a collegiate body consisting of 27 members, each with one member per Member State. 
All audit reports and opinions are adopted by the College. 
The Court is divided into five audit groups to which individual members are assigned. 
As shown in the Organisation Chart (see page 17), there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas (maintenance and management of natural resources - structural policies, transport, research and energy - External policies - Revenues, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies). 
The fifth audit group (CEAD or Coordination, Communication, Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development) is responsible for "horizontal" issues such as coordination in the area of assurance, quality assurance, development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports. 
In addition, an Administrative Committee is responsible for the preparatory treatment of all administrative matters requiring a formal decision by the Court. 
The Members of the Court shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, in accordance with the proposals of each Member State for a term of office of six years; Re-election is permitted. 
Members shall carry out their activities in full independence for the general good of the European Union. 
In addition to his function within the college, which is responsible for final decision-making on audits and opinions as well as on further strategic and administrative issues, each member is primarily responsible for his or her specific tasks in the area of auditing. 
The actual audit work is usually the task of the auditors in the individual audit units and is coordinated by the relevant member with the support of his cabinet. 
The Member then took over the presentation of the report in the audit group or in the Court and after its adoption in the European Parliament, Council and other interested third parties. 
On 1 January 2008, three new members - Mr Michel Cretin (France), Mr Harald Noack (Germany) and Mr Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) - replaced their predecessors after their term of office. 
The Council also extended the mandate of four Members - Mr Hubert Weber (Austria), Mr Maarten B. Engwirda (Netherlands), Mr David Bostock (United Kingdom) and Mr Ioannis Sarmas (Greece) - for a period of six years. 
The President at the head of the European Court of Auditors is the President, who is elected by the members from their middle for three years, with re-election allowed. 
The President represents the Court in all his external relations, in particular in his relations with the discharge authority, the other institutions of the European Union and the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States and beneficiary countries. 
On 16 January 2008, the Portuguese Member, Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, was elected the tenth President of the Court. 14 
The Secretary-General is the highest-ranking member of the institution and is appointed by the Court for a period of six years; Re-election is permitted. 
The Secretary-General is responsible for the Court's human resources and material management, including professional training and the Directorate for Translation, each with one unit per official language (22), except Irish. 
The Secretary-General is also under the authority of the Court's secretariat. 
The former Secretary-General, Mr Michel Hervé, left the Court on 31 October 2008. 
On 9 October 2008, Mr. John Speed was appointed Secretary General, m.d.d.G.b. 
On 10 March 2009, the Court appointed Mr Eduardo Ruiz García as the new Secretary-General with effect from 16 March 2009. In the budget for the financial year 2008, there are 858 posts for the European Court of Auditors (at 31. In December 2008). 
The Court's auditors have a wide range of training profiles and relevant professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in the areas of accounting, financial management, internal and external audits and law and economics. 
Like the other EU institutions, the Court employs nationals from all Member States. Staff are subject to the EU Staff Regulations. 
15 EUROPEAN CHOUSE 2009 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVICIENKE (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONCIC (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSANET (ES) Nadejda SANDOLOVA (BG) David BOSTOCK (UK) Gejza Zsolt HALÁSZ (HU) Jan KINŠT (CZ) Olavi ALA-NISSILÄ (FI) Michel CRETIN (FR) 
Overview OF THE PRECIFICATION REPORTS AND OPINION5 YEAR REPORTS TO THE HOUSE YEAR REPORT 2007 YEAR REPORT ON THE EUHAUSHALTSPLAN REPORT The annual accounts provide, in all material respects, a true and fair view of the financial situation and the results of the EU. 
The limitations set out in last year's annual report on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2006 are no longer valid due to the improvements made in 2007. 
On some areas, such as the Union's administrative expenditure, the Court gives full audit opinions on legality and regularity. 
However, the Court cannot give an unrestricted opinion on most expenditure areas. 
Although most of the payments we audited have been made in accordance with the legislation, we still consider the error rate in payments to final beneficiaries, such as farmers and holders of EU-funded projects, to be too high. 
With the exception of cohesion measures with an error rate of at least 11 %, the estimated error rate in these topics ranges from 2 % to 5 %. 
In some areas of expenditure, in particular those previously covered by internal and external policies, the estimated level of error has decreased, but not so much that it would change the overall picture. 
The result does not mean that these breaches of legislation are due to fraud or that most of the operations in these areas are unlawful and/or illegal. 
In three areas - administrative and other expenditure, economic and financial and revenue - the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors on representative samples of transactions showed low estimated error rates. 
In the Union's largest expenditure area - agriculture and natural resources - the estimated overall error rate remains essential. 
Rural development and its often complex schemes account for a disproportionate proportion of this error rate. 
For expenditure under the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the value of the error rate estimated by the Court is just below the materiality threshold of 2 %. 
As in previous years, cohesion measures, accounting for more than a third of the budget volume, constitute the most error-related area. 
On the basis of the sample estimate of the proportion of transactions affected by error, at least 11 % of the total amount of refunds should not have been paid. 
5 The purpose of this section is to introduce the Court's reports and opinions and not to summarise their content. 
Further information can be found in the full text of the Court documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after its adoption. 
The high level of error in areas such as cohesion is partly due to inherent risk due to the high number of beneficiaries applying for EU funding under complex rules and legislation. 
The shortcomings in the design and functioning of the systems also contribute to the shortcomings identified. 
Most EU-funded programmes contain provisions on corrective measures that provide for the recovery of funds unduly disbursed due to errors on a multi-annual basis. 
However, there is no information on the impact of these measures. 
This means that it cannot be specifically determined whether they effectively reduce the proportion of illegal and/or irregular expenditure. 
The Commission has been working on a reform programme to improve the management of the EU budget since 2000, which includes an action plan from 2006. 
By the end of 2007, the Commission had implemented two thirds of the sub-measures from the Action Plan. 
However, it is still too early to assess the impact of these measures. 
Improved high-level controls, such as the Commission's monitoring of Member States' control activities, cannot compensate for inadequacy of lower level controls such as on-the-spot checks. 
However, the benefits resulting from the increased implementation of on-the-spot checks must be weighed against the costs. 
We recommend that the Union's political authorities define what level of risk of error would be appropriate. 
In order to reduce the level of error in EU payments, the Court recommends simplifying rules and legislation, streamlining internal control measures and improving monitoring and reporting. 
20 KASTS 3 SUMMARY CONTROLING SUPPORTS ON THE RECHURITY AND SECURITY OF THE REGULATIONS TO expenditure areas The table provides a summary of the overall assessment of the supervisory and control systems in accordance with the statements made in the respective chapters of the 2007 Annual Report and provides a rough overview of the Court's audit results in relation to representative samples of transactions. 
The systems Specific assessments in the annual report for the financial year 2007 Cohesion: 42 billion euros of agriculture and natural resources: EUR 51 billion in external aid, development and enlargement: EUR 6 billion in research, energy and transport: EUR 4.5 billion in education and citizenship: 1.5 billion euros of administrative and other expenditure: 8 MilliaSrdAePnAERuDro Economy and Finance: 0.5 billion euro revenue Assessment of the supervisory and control systems range in which the error rate (FQ) is classified as "partially satisfactory" if some control arrangements have been found to work properly, others are not. 
The annual accounts of the European Development Funds (EDFs) provide a true and fair view of the financial situation and the results of the EDFs in all material respects. 
The audit opinion on the legality and regularity of EDF transactions is limited with regard to payments. 
In addition, 28 special annual reports on the European Agencies and other decentralised bodies were adopted in 2008. 
21 KASTES 4 INTERPRETATION OF PRACTICES A examiner may issue the following types of audit opinions: • full audit opinion where it is demonstrated that the accounts are reliable or that the underlying transactions, i.e. payments, are legal and regular in all material respects; • negative audit opinion where the error rate in the underlying transactions is material and comprehensive or the accounts are not reliable; • Refusal of the opinion if the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and adequate audit evidence to support his or her opinion and the potential impact is both substantial and comprehensive; • limited opinion where an unrestricted opinion cannot be delivered, but the effects of disagreements or limitations on the scope of the examination are not so substantial or comprehensive that they require a negative opinion or refusal of the opinion. 
The Court published a total of twelve special reports in 2008. 
In order to improve the readability and usability of its reports, the Court decided to publish its special reports in a new format and to make them available directly on its website (www.eca. europa.eu), with only a reference to their publication in the Official Journal. 
As in previous years, the reports related to investigations of financial management issues in many different areas and ranged from the efficiency of the European Solidarity Fund (No 3/2008) to the European Union's support measures in favour of public cereal storage (No 11/2008). 
The Court's audits revealed problems of various kinds with various consequences and resulted in recommendations to improve financial management, as well as to increase profitability and effectiveness. 
The selection of topics for performance audits and their design is at the discretion of the Court and is based on criteria such as risk analysis, potential for improvement and public interest. 
In its special reports published in 2008, broken down by topic, the Court provided answers to the following questions: Conservation and management of natural resources • Does the procedure for establishing national milk quotas in the Member States acceding to the EU in 2004 lead to the timely establishment of operational management and control systems as a solid basis for the application of the EU regime? 
(No 3/2008) • Did the Commission adequately plan, monitor and evaluate the Intelligent Energy - Europe programme (to promote energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and diversification of energy supply) and did the executive agency responsible for implementing the programme have a positive impact on the management of the programme? (No 7/2008) • ISPA (structural policy instrument for pre-accession, one of the instruments to assist candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe in their preparations for accession in the period 2000-2006) has adequate preparation and a uniform strategy? Were the ISPA projects implemented as planned and contributed to the compliance of the beneficiary countries with the EU environmental directives and the improvement of the trans-European transport network? 
External Policies • Was the rehabilitation needs of those affected by the tsunami and Hurricane Mitch adequately identified by the Commission and was the aid implemented in a timely and efficient manner? (No 6/2008) • Has the EU support for the new neighbouring countries (Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine) directly adjacent to the EU (Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine) improved their administrative capacity in the areas of border control, migration and asylum management, the fight against organised crime, as well as the judiciary and good governance following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements? 
What were the causes of below-average performance and to what extent was there a learning process for the Commission to use lessons learned for further support in this area? (No 9/2008) • Was EC development aid to health care in sub-Saharan Africa (within the EC's commitments to poverty reduction and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals) effective? 
Was the financial and human resources allocated to the health sector in line with the EC's political commitments, had the Commission managed to implement this assistance more quickly and how effectively had the Commission put in place various tools to support the health sector? 
(No 10/2008) Revenues, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies • Have the system of binding tariff information to promote uniform application of customs policy and ensure the collection of customs duties at the correct level have been applied effectively (reasonable and in accordance with the legislation)? (No. 2/2008) • Can EU regulatory agencies implement the EU's main administrative and financial refor- ments to move towards results-oriented management? 
Had the agencies sufficiently planned their actions, had they put in place reliable tools to monitor their activities and adequately reported on their activities and led to sound assessments of their results? (No. 5/2008) 24 
25 IN THE YEAR 2008 ORDER REPORT6 No 1/2008 No 2/2008 No 3/2008 No 4/2008 No 5/2008 No 6/2008 No 7/2008 No 8/2008 No 9/2008 No 10/2008 No 11/2008 No 12/2008 Procedure for the audit and evaluation of large investment projects in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods (OJ C 81, 1.4.2008) Binding Customs Tariff Information (BTI) (OJ C 103, 24.4.2008) The European Union Solidarity Fund: How fast, effective and flexible does it work? 
(OJ C 185, 22.7.2008) How do Union agencies achieve results? European Commission rehabilitation assistance under the Tsunami and Hurricane Mitch Intelligent Energy - Europe Programme (2003-2006) Is the cross-compliance regime effective? 
Effectiveness of EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of EC freedom, security and justice Development aid for health care in sub-Saharan Africa Management of European Union support for public cereal storage Structural Instrument for Pre-accession (ISPA), 2000-2006 6 These special reports can be found on the Court's website or can be obtained by electronic order form via the EU Bookshop. 
In the YEAR 2008 OPINION The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management by delivering opinions on proposals or budgetary matters. 
These opinions are required as part of the adoption procedure of financial rules7 or may be made at the request of one of the other Community institutions8. 
In addition, the Court can provide opinions on its own initiative. 
The Court's opinions may address issues relating to certain EU spending areas, such as the amendment of the Financial Regulation of the European Aviation Safety Agency (No 1/2008) or issues related to EU revenue, such as the amendment of the Regulation on the Community's own resources system (No 2/2008). 
Opinions are based on the Court's expertise on EU financial management issues acquired in the course of our audits over the years, and in some cases reference is made to certain audits or opinions. 
For example, in its Opinion on the new Financial Regulation of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor), the Court refers to its annual report on the financial year 2006, in which he had already pointed out high risks regarding the legality and regularity of payments for research aid. 
26 7 Article 279 of the EC Treaty. 
8 Article 248(4) of the EC Treaty. 
Opinion No 1/2008 Opinion No 2/2008 Opinion No 3/2008 Opinion No 4/2008 Opinion No 5/2008 on the proposal for a decision of the Management Board of the European Aviation Safety Agency amending the Agency's financial rules on a proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000 implementing Decision 2000/597/EC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources 
Public financial control plays a central role in promoting accountability and makes a useful contribution to public debate. 
The audit activities shall be held accountable to the addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, as to whether their taxpayers' money is spent in a proper and appropriate manner. 
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned, primarily in the European context, namely the Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States. 
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the audit conclusions. 
Although the Court's audit work has its main impact on the published reports, there is already some effect throughout the audit itself. 
In the replies, the audited body often acknowledges the problems identified by the Court and sets out the steps it intends to take to remedy them. 
Upon completion of the audit work and publication of a report, the results of the audit will be evaluated and used by the Parliament and the Council to carry out their political role of monitoring the use of the budget. 
In the context of the annual discharge procedure, the Court's reports form a basis for the Council's recommendation and Parliament's decision in this regard. 
29 examples can be found in the 2007 discharge procedure, in which the European Parliament calls on the Commission and the Member States to make efforts to simplify and further clarify the rules in order to reduce the risks of error, streamline controls and reduce costs. 
This applies both to shared management areas, such as expenditure on agricultural and cohesion measures, as well as direct management areas, such as expenditure on research or culture and education. 
Special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure. 
However, due to the fact that they are published in the course of the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate in this regard took place at the meetings of the Parliament and of the Council at an earlier stage. 
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by their topic in the relevant media, which attracts greater attention and encourages public discussion. 
As a rule, media coverage for the Court's annual report is quite comprehensive, but some special reports have also been followed up with interest by the press. 
An example of this is the Special Report on the Cross Compliance Scheme (No 8/2008), which was currently published on the adoption of the Health Check of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). 
Due to the importance of the cross-compliance regime and its central role within the CAP and due to the time of publication, the report found a broad echo in the various media: Television, newspapers, trade press, internet publications (press, agricultural associations, MEP websites, web blogs, etc.). 
The report was also dealt with in detail in the European Parliament and almost all the Court's recommendations were taken up in the draft discharge report. 
Further information on the follow-up of previous observations by the Court can be found in the respective chapters of its annual report. 
The Court's most frequently remarked in its last annual report is that despite the measures taken, the deficiencies identified in the previous year were only partially addressed. 
The Court intends to analyse increasingly the long-term impact of its work - audits and opinions. 
As an example, the Court uses a Commission database containing the follow-up to its audit recommendations as a basis for assessing the impact of our audits. 
The assessment may result in separate in-depth audits leading to further findings and recommendations. 
These may be included in a subsequent special report on the area concerned or recorded in a follow-up report and the impact of recommendations on financial management. 
In the context of the development of an internal Community control framework, the Court considered in its Opinion No 2/2004 that it is up to political authorities to decide on the level of risk they are willing to accept when approving EU spending regimes. 
We suggested that Parliament and Council agree on an appropriate ratio between the costs and benefits of controls, in other words the tolerable residual risk of errors in expenditure. 
The costs of the controls should be proportionate to the benefits they provide from a monetary and political point of view. 
Since the publication of this opinion, both the European Parliament and the Council have expressed the desire in their discharge resolutions to pursue the issue further and to reach a common understanding of the tolerable level of risk. 
At the end of 2008, the Commission issued a Communication entitled 'Towards a common understanding of the concept of tolerable risk of error'. 
The Court welcomed this communication and sent a reply to the Commission highlighting certain limits and setting out the main aspects to be considered in the future follow-up of this issue. 
In its Communication, the Commission states that any decision on a tolerable risk of error should be based, inter alia, on the potential for further simplification. 
The Court also highlights the importance and benefits of further simplifications and the potential impact on reducing errors or irregularities. 
The concept of "tolerable risk of error" must be clearly separated from the concept of materiality threshold as defined and applied by the Court. The latter is the responsibility of the external auditor10. 
In the Court's view, the cost-benefit analysis of spending programmes could provide information not only for discussions on the tolerable risk, but also for the review of the regulatory framework and the governance structure of the programmes concerned. 
In this context, the relevant question may not be whether there is a tolerable risk of error, but whether the risk of error is so high that the scheme or programme concerned should be abolished/terminated or fundamentally modified. 
Specific attention should also be paid to the concept of tolerable risk when designing expenditure (and revenue) schemes or programmes. 
It would be useful if, at the time of their adoption, expenditure programmes had sufficient information on the risks involved and the costs of the controls envisaged to reduce those risks to a reasonable extent. 
In this way, decisions would be taken in an informed manner, taking into account the risks and costs involved. 
The process of budgetary reform may provide an opportunity to reflect on this issue, as suggested by the Court in its reply to the Commission communication entitled 'To reform the budget, change Europe'11. 
31 10 The concept of 'materiality' is defined in the International Examination Principle ISA 320 as follows: 'Informatio-n are essential if their omission or misrepresentation could affect the economic decisions taken by final addressees on the basis of a conclusion. 
Materiality depends on the size of the item or error resulting from the particular circumstances of omission or misrepresentation. 
Thus, materiality is more of a threshold or limit, and less a primary qualitative requirement that information needs to be useful. 11 See the European Court of Auditors' response to the Commission's Communication "Reforming the budget, changing Europe", April 2008. 
Every year, the Court presents its future audit work in a work programme presented to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and available to the public on the Court's website. 
The number of special reports and opinions in 2008 was similar to that in previous years. 
Results (Number) 2008 Opinions 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special Reports 10 6 11 9 12 Annual Reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 1 Special Annual Reports 23 20 23 29 28 2 11 8 9 
Audit strategy The audit strategy is based on the Court's strategic objectives. 
33 STRATEGISCHE ZIELE Professionality Output audience Further development and growth Consolidated audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with the EU SAIs, effective "Community control framework" selection of relevant audit topics, timeliness, clarity and legibility of the reports, quality of performance audits, increase the impact of reports deepening relations with audit bodies in order to improve understanding of the audit process and to achieve greater acceptance of audit results in order to strengthen and develop contacts with the European Parliament and Council as budgetary and discharge authority effective communication with EU citizens using peer review experience in order to strengthen and develop the organisation, methods, procedures and results and to achieve maximum efficiency tracking of effective and dynamic staffing policies. Modernisation of infrastructure Implementation of IT strategies ZIELE OF audit strategy 2009-2012 Maximising the overall impact of audits Improve efficiency by making the best use of resources 
The purpose of the audits and reports carried out by the Court is to contribute to improving EU financial management and protecting the EU's financial interests for the benefit of EU citizens. 
The following key aspects are taken into account in the formulation of the relevant strategy for the Court's activities: Impact EFFIZIENZ Reports Audit work Programme To implement its mission and mission statement, the Court developed an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012 in 2008. 
A summary of this document is available on the Court's website. 
The Court's strategy is based on two priority objectives: Maximise the overall impact of the audits and improve efficiency by making the best use of resources. 
These objectives will have a major impact on the Court's work programmes during that period as well as its continuous improvement efforts. 
The Court aims to maximise the overall impact of its audits over the relevant period by selecting and designing audits that focus on topics from risk areas and which are of greatest interest to the Court's audience; • continue to present sound audit conclusions and useful suggestions for improvement and follow up on whether these proposals are being implemented; • carry out a wider range of audits and present new types of audit products that complement the current annual and special reports; • create a larger number of special reports and improve their timeliness and ease of use; • further strengthen its relations with its main addressees, including the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as with the media and the general public. During the relevant period, the Court aims to improve efficiency by making the best use of its resources. 
These include: • a better line; • an effective and dynamic human resources policy; • rationalisation of audit tasks; • the improvement of IT tools; • the development of expertise; • the development of relations with the audited bodies. 34 
12 As in previous years, the 2009 work programme includes the preparation of annual reports setting out the results of the audits of the accounts that the Court has to carry out in accordance with the EC Treaty and other EU legislation. 
For 2009, the Court identified a number of audit topics relating to policy developments and issues of EU financial management. 
As regards developments in EU policy areas, the following topics have been selected: • Growth and employment; • Climate change and sustainable development; • Europe as a global partner; • better regulation. 
In addition, in the area of EU financial management, the Court focuses on the following issues, which we consider to deserve particular attention: • Completion of the 2000-2006 spending programmes, in particular in the area of the Structural Funds; • EU accountability and reform; • Progress of the Commission's Action Plan for an Integrated Internal Control Framework, taking into account the concept of tolerable risk; • Administrative and control measures at Member State level. 
The Court's objective is to address these issues as of 2009 as part of its annual reports, special reports and a number of new types of reports (see comments below). 
The Court intends to publish a series of special reports and related novel reports drawn up on the basis of the audit tasks it selected. 
The planning and implementation of these selected audit tasks, as well as their reporting, usually extend over a period of more than one year. 
Therefore, most of the reports published in a given year are based on audit work initiated in previous years. 
Box 5 contains the selected audit tasks that have been completed or are ahead of completion and the results of which are therefore expected to be published in special reports in 2009 or early 2010. 
35 12 A more complete and detailed overview of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2009 work programme, which is available on our website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
The follow-up of the recommendations is an important tool for the Court to actively contribute to improving financial management. 
The report will include an analysis of the extent to which our recommendations have been followed and, where appropriate, an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures taken. 
It is expected to be published at approximately the same time as the annual report. - The other new type of report we intend to present is a report on high-risk areas in the context of EU financial management. 
The report is addressed to the new Commission, which will start its work towards the end of the year, and will provide guidance. 
In 2006, the Court carried out a self-assessment which identified its strengths and weaknesses. 
Subsequently, an action plan was drawn up to address the vulnerabilities. 
The Action Plan included a number of actions, following which the Court set out its mission statement, mission, strategic objectives and strategic planning; • developed internal performance indicators that are gradually introduced (see section below); • adopted an internal communication strategy which has already been implemented and has opened new channels for better dissemination of information within the institution; • taken various measures to improve the quality of its reports, for example through a new graphic design to improve readability and external evaluations; • adopted a progressive strategy to improve the Court's relations with its addressees, the press and the general public. 
As part of its efforts to improve, in 2009 the Court will seek to take up the observations and recommendations of the International Peer Review Report on the European Court of Auditors published in December 2008, which is an important step in the Court's ongoing reform process. 
Peer review was carried out by representatives of the national supervisory authorities of Canada, Norway, Austria and Portugal. 
The peers carried out their work in 2008 and in this context also contacted the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament. The final report was presented at the end of 2008. 
The objective of the peer review process was to assess the design and functioning of the framework set by the Court for audits. 
The assessment covered the following areas: • Planning and auditing procedures for accounting and performance audits; • Reporting on the results of the audit; • Services that assist the Court in achieving its objectives. 
The peer review team concluded that the design of the framework set by the Court for audits complies with international audit principles and good practice for Supreme Audit Institutions. 
In addition, the peers noted that • the Court carries out its activities independently and objectively; • the Court's audit reports are based on sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as foreseen in the international audit principles; • place a high level of confidence in the Court's reports and generally consider them fair, objective and objective. 
The Court welcomes the constructive comments and recommendations made by the peers to identify ways to further strengthen its role as the Supreme Audit Authority and draw attention to the challenges involved. 
This includes, among other things, the need to develop a culture that focuses on a uniform approach of the Court as an audit body; • to strengthen quality assurance and quality control activities with the aim of consistent interpretation and application of its audit strategies and methods; • to develop risk-oriented audit strategies in order to make the most of the resources in view of the different needs of the addressees. 
The peer review report acknowledges that most of the recommendations have already been anticipated within the framework of the action plan drawn up before the procedure. 
The Court intends to include the remaining recommendations in its audit strategy for the period 2009-2012 following an exchange with its staff and addressees and will endeavour to implement them during this period. 
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS INTERNATIONAL PEER REVIEW OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 38 
In 2008, the Court decided to introduce a system of key performance indicators (ZLIs) for its audit-related and non-audit activities to measure performance in achieving the Court's strategic objectives and objectives set out in the Annual Work Programme. 
ZLI serves to strengthen internal and external accountability and increase work efficiency and quality. The ZLI will be introduced gradually in 2009 and 2010. 
WHY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS? • To inform management of how successful the Court as an institution implements what it intended; • to support the decision-making process by focusing the institution's attention on efficiency issues and by promoting improvements; • to provide the addressee with information on relevant aspects related to the Court's performance. 
They are intended to provide information about the Court's performance as a "company" and become an integral part of the Court's management system. 
The volume and quality of audit work can also be improved by looking at the impact of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management. 
Four key performance indicators (1 to 4) are used to measure the impact of the Court's work. 
They will be developed with a view to their inclusion in the Court's annual work programme for 2010. 
As a sample, the Court measured performance in 2008 on the basis of ZLI 5 and 6. 
ZLI 5 - Number of reports adopted compared to the number of planned reports In 2008, the Court adopted 79 % of the planned number of reports. 
The annual report and most of the special annual reports were adopted as planned. 
Of the planned 20 special reports, only twelve were adopted. 
The remaining eight special reports were at 31. ==References====External links== 
ZLI 6 - Number of reports adopted on schedule In 2008, the Court adopted 73 % of its reports on time. 
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted on time; however, further efforts are needed to improve compliance with the deadlines for the adoption of the special reports. 
ZLI 7, which measures the number of key audit notifications prepared on time, will provide useful performance information and will be prepared in 2009. 
A ZLI (8) covers aspects related to the Court's financial management. 
Two ZLIs (9 and 10) will contribute to the improvement of staff satisfaction and optimise the use of professional training as a tool for continuously updating the knowledge of the latest examination methods and techniques. 
The CENTRALING INDICATORS OF THE HOFES Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the main addressees of the Court's reports Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the audited body grading the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a panel of external experts Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audit body b) implemented by the audit body within x years Number of reports adopted on schedule Number of reports adopted in due time a) Audit opinion of the auditor b) Decision of the discharge authority Degree of satisfaction of the Court's staff Average number of training days per person 40 ZLI 1 ZLI 2 ZLI 3 ZLI 4 ZLI 5 ZLI 6 ZLI 7 ZLI 8 ZLI 9 ZLI 10 
In accordance with the EC Treaty, the ECA has to carry out its audit in "link" with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States (ORKBs) while the Amsterdam Treaty added: "The Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies shall cooperate with confidence while respecting their independence." This scheme was extended in the Treaty of Nice by explicitly calling on the Court of Auditors in the 18th Declaration of the Final Act to set up a committee for contacts with the national audit bodies, in which all SAI Presidents and the Court meet annually to discuss matters of common interest. 
In December 2008, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the EU-ORKB Presidents' Contact Committee. 
Thematic priorities of the meeting were the reform of the EU budget and the revised Lisbon Strategy for the period 2008-2011. 
The Contact Committee aims to strengthen cooperation among its members in order to improve external audit and accountability in the EU. 
The role of the Contact Committee has evolved over the years in parallel with European integration. 
In addition to facilitating the exchange of information between the SAIs and the ECA, this body has made significant progress in effective cooperation between the different supervisory authorities. 
At its meeting in Helsinki in 2007, the Contact Committee recognised the need to address emerging or new issues in good time and agreed to provide for a permanent agenda item for dealing with such current issues. 
Accordingly, at its meeting in 2008, the Contact Committee discussed the economic and financial crisis and agreed to set up a workshop on the role of the EU-ORKB in the context of the crisis. 
Subsequently, a network was set up to promote cooperation on audits related to the Lisbon Strategy and EU crisis management measures. 
The Court attended meetings of the SAI Network of Candidate Countries and Candidate Countries "in spe" (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro). 
These meetings took place at the same time as Liaison Officers' meetings in May and October. 
A delegation from the Court also participated in a workshop on the audit/evaluation of internal control systems of public finances organised by the Network on 8 and 9 July in Ankara, Turkey. 
Throughout 2008, the Court actively participated in the various working groups set up by the Contact Committee. 
The Working Group on Common Audit Standards, whose objective is to develop common audit standards tailored to the EU environment and comparable audit standards based on internationally recognised audit principles, met four times under the chairmanship of the Court in 2008. 
With effect from December 2008, the Court took over the (rotating) chair of the VAT Working Group and the Agricultural Expert Network resumed its work under the chairmanship of a Member of the Court. 
The Court continued its active participation and involvement in the improvement of international audit principles and procedures through its membership in European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, namely EUROSAI and INTOSAI. 
A delegation from the Court took place on VII. EUROSAI Congress, which took place from 2 to 5 June in Krakow (Poland). 
The main topics of discussion were the introduction of audit-related quality management systems in an SAI, the examination of social programmes in the field of training and the professional integration of disabled people. 
The President of the Court presented a contribution to the role of management in the implementation of a quality management system for auditing. 
As part of EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and the IT Working Group and participates in the EUROSAI Training Committee. 
He also works on the VII. EUROSAI Congress working group to develop a guide on best practices to achieve quality in an SAI. 
In addition, the Court is a member of the EUROSAI Task Force to audit disaster relief funds. 42 
At the EUROSAI Congress, the European Court of Auditors, together with the Supreme Audit Authority of the Slovak Republic, was appointed as auditor for the period 2009-2011. 
Since the Court became a full member of INTOSAI in 2004, he has actively participated in the Financial Audit Guidelines (FAS), the Subcommittee for the Audit of Legal Standards (CAS) and the Subcommittee for Performance Audits (PAS). 
The Court contributed to the Subcommittee on the Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through voluntary peer reviews. 
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on the accountability and audit of disaster relief (succession body of the INTOSAI Task Force Tsunami). 
A first meeting of this working group was hosted by the Court in the period from 30 June to 2 July 2008. 
At this meeting, the draft work programme for the period 2008-2010 was discussed and adopted. 
The main objective is to develop guidance on accountability and audit in this area, with the aim of reaching all stakeholders through the relevant responsible body. 
In addition to its coordinating role, the Court has assumed responsibility for a number of tasks, two of them in cooperation with the Norwegian Court of Auditors. 
The Chair of this Working Group also requires the Court to be represented in the meetings of the INTOSAI Bureau. 43 
Of the 857 staff (officials, temporary and contract staff, but excluding members, seconded national experts and trainees), who were on 31 December. In December 2008, 501 were employed as auditors and audit assistants, 163 as translators and 173 staff with administrative support tasks and 20 in the office of the President. 
They have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output. 
For human resources, the Court defined the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's staff as a key performance indicator (ZLI 9). 
A satisfaction survey was conducted to provide information on this topic and to support the decision-making process in this area. 
MEN WOMEN 54 % 46 % 12.2001 12.2008 51 % 49 % 
The graph below shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility at 31. December 2008. 
14 of the 59 directors and heads of unit (24 %) are women; this represents a slight increase in the proportion of women since 2007. 
Assistants - Secretaries (AST level) MEN Auditors - Boards of Directors (AD level) MEN Directors and Heads of Unit MÄNNER WOMEN 45 32 % 68 % 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 WOMEN 33 % 67 % 64 % 36 % 63 % 37 % Women 77 % 23 % 76 % 24 % 
Age profile The graph below shows that the Court is a "young" institution (62 % of employees are under 44 years of age). 
Among the 98 farm staff aged 55 or older are 27 of the 59 directors and heads of unit; this means that over the next five to ten years, there will be substantial new appointments at senior management levels. 
Age profile 46 33 2 65 148 148 123 101 62 3 172 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 > 64 Establishments The ECA's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff consists of both officials and temporary staff. 
In 2008, the Court hired 97 employees: 48 officials, 18 temporary staff and 31 contract staff. 
Recruitment depends on whether reserve lists of EPSO competitions are available. 
Due to the shortage of suitable candidates, the Court was unable to recruit as many new staff as planned in many units, so the total number of vacancies (69) at the end of 2008 was higher than at the end of 2007. 
However, it should be noted that there was a significant number of recruitments at the end of the year and that the staff concerned should start their service during the first quarter of 2009. 
The Court is currently seeking to reduce the deadlines in its recruitment procedures. 
Translation Translation is an important administrative task that enables the Court to achieve its communication objectives and to comply with its legal obligation to publish in 22 languages. 
Translation volumes increased by 17 % in 2008, mainly due to the assumption of a higher number of special reports. 
The vast majority of translations are done internally, and during peak times when the normal capacity of the translation units is exceeded, translation orders are awarded to the Translation Centre (CTOU) or to external translation agencies. 
In addition, the translators take part in audit trips and assist the auditors before, during and after audit trips, including in the subsequent stages of the drafting of audit reports. 
The translators provide constant support in the ongoing updating of the content of the intranet and the website in English and French. 
They also support INTOSAI working groups and cover other specific needs related to the Court's activities. 
The Court's Directorate for Translation is actively involved in the work of the Interinstitutional Translation and Interpretation Committee (CITI), is a member of international committees and participates in international conferences related to the development of electronic tools for translation and documentation. 
Audit visits During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and other beneficiary countries from EU funds in order to obtain adequate audit evidence. 
Visits usually apply to central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as the respective final recipients. 
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the length of a test trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of test and distance. 
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the visited Member State, which provide useful logistical and practical support. 47 
Costs of EUR 3.29 million were incurred in connection with audit missions in 2008. 
This substantial investment is needed to ensure sufficient audit coverage at all levels and locations of the management of EU funds. 
The graphs below provide an overview of the number of audit missions carried out by the Court in 2008 in the EU Member States and outside the Union. 
50 40 30 20 10 0 5 4 3 2 1 0 Total: 283 Examinations IN THE MEMBER STATES IN YEAR 2008 48 48 35 34 21 20 17 13 11 10 9 9 8 8 55 33 333332222 1 Examinations in non-Member States in the year 2008 Total: 42 Turkey Switzerland Malawi South Africa Tanzania Rwanda Peru Norway Kenya Bangladesh Angola Zambia Tunisia Sudan Senegal Mauritania Kosovo Jordan Georgia, Armenia Egypt Congo Burkina Faso France Spain Germany Belgium United Kingdom Poland Italy Netherlands Portugal Greece Ireland Hungary Estonia Slovenia Slovakia Romania Malta Latvia Finland Cyprus Lithuania Denmark Czech Republic Bulgaria Luxembourg 
The profession of examiner requires continuous training. 
In 2008, the Court's staff completed an average of ten days of professional training. 
The number of specialised training activities increased significantly compared to 2007. 
In 2008, the Court strengthened its support for the participation of its staff in ongoing programmes to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and qualifications in the areas of external audit, internal audit and IT audit. 
Language courses accounted for 48 % of the total number of training days in 2008 (compared to 52 % in 2007). 
Without taking into account the language courses, the examiners completed seven days of professional training in 2008. 
On the basis of the long-term strategic objective "Development and growth" and the guidance plan for training for the years 2008-2011 and the training paths adopted in 2008, the Vocational Training Unit has made improvements in the content of training activities and developed new training courses in line with the priorities adopted by the Court. 
In addition, cooperation with the other institutions and inter-institutional bodies such as the European Administrative School has been successfully continued. 
Box 6 provides a portrait of the staff of a selected unit or department within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work carried out, the employees involved, their background and professional experience. 49 
The report on the Intelligent Energy - Europe Programme 2003-2006 (Special Report No 7/2008), adopted by the Court in 2008, provided an insight into the functioning of an aid scheme to improve the use of energy-efficient technologies. 
It covered the procedures established for the allocation of funds for individual projects, the monitoring and evaluation modalities, the administrative costs and the impact of the establishment of an executive agency. 
The team responsible for carrying out the audit worked closely with the rapporteur member, Mr David Bostock. 
The head of the department responsible for overseeing the audit was Hendrik Fehr, and Peggy Vercauteren was head of the team. 
The auditors involved were Oliver Müller, Peter Zsapka, Zoltán Giday and Carl-Christian Buhr, with Gerhard Ross, Thomas af Hällström and Peter Welch from Mr. David Bostock's cabinet also playing an important role. 
The audit included a survey to obtain information from a broad group of participants. 
Various cost accounting techniques have been used to complete and complement the information available to the Commission. 
The audit found that the programme was managed in accordance with the Commission's usual approaches and guidance. 
However, the spending pattern was poorly targeted and the monitoring and evaluation did not make it possible to assess the overall quality of the programme. 
During the programme period, relatively high administrative costs (for the Commission, the Agency and the participants) were incurred - approximately the same amount as the amount paid to participants during the same period. 
The establishment of the Executive Agency improved the satisfaction of the participants with the programme. 
From left to right: Hendrik Fehr, Director (25 years at the Court), David Bostock, Member of the Court (7 years at the Court), Zoltán Giday, Audit Board (3 years at the Court), Peggy Vercauteren, Senior Financial Audit Council (5 years at the Court), Oliver Müller, Chief Financial Audit Board (6 years at the Court), Peter Welch, Chef of Cabinet (13 years at the Court), Gerhard Ross, Head of Unit (11 years at the Court), Thomas af Hällström, Chief Financial Audit Board (8 years at the Court). 
Financial information HOUSHALT The Court's 2009 budget accounts for around 0.16 % of the total EU budget and 2.4 % of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies. 
Compared to 2008, there was an increase of 41 %, mainly due to the Court's appropriations for construction, as after further staff increases, staff will be accommodated in a second extension (K3 building), which is scheduled to be completed in 2013. 
Negotiations on the financing arrangements were started with the budgetary authority in February 2008. 
As a result, the construction project, the total cost of which is estimated at EUR 79 million, will be financed by four consecutive annual budgets. 
In October 2008, the budgetary authority approved a tranche of 55 million euro for the 2009 budget. 
Around 52 % of the total budget is accounted for by human resources in 2009. 
2007 2008 Members of the institution Officials and temporary staff Other staff and external services Mission expenses Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution Title 1 Total building Data processing and telecommunications Equipment and furniture: Purchase, rent and maintenance Current operating expenditures Meetings and conferences Information and publications Title 2 total Court of Auditors 11 270 82 583 4 014 3 000 2 056 102 923 8 126 518 1 396 435 872 1 810 18 157 110 519 2009 (EUR 1 000) 11 718 92 086 4 497 3 290 290 284 114 275 62 891 669 981 439 868 1 921 73 369 187 644 12 061 88 712 448 3 212 2 286 12 286 12 110 579 1 147 121 080 132 769 469 825 876 876 
More generally, it is a matter of assessing the performance of individual services in the implementation of policies, programmes and measures with the aim of continuous improvement. 
In 2008, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused on auditing the accounts (audit of accounting records), verification of the ex-ante audit, recruitment procedure, aids and allowances for recruitment, building maintenance, expenditure on utilities and services, implementation of the IT strategy and a review of the IT control framework. 
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the Internal Auditor in 2008 were accepted by the audited bodies and included in corrective action plans. 
The Internal Audit Committee met six times in 2008 and focused on the follow-up of the Internal Auditor's recommendations. 
Other topics were the Committee's own activity report for 2007 and the Court's 2007 report to the discharge authority on the Internal Auditor's Office. 
The Internal Audit Committee held two meetings with the Court's independent auditor to discuss the state of play of the audit for the financial year 2007. 
In its opinion on the financial year 2007 (OJ C 318, 12.12.2008), the Court's independent auditor formulated the following conclusions: To the annual accounts: "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23. December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the abovementioned Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors.' "(...) we have not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria (a) the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and (b) the control procedures established do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 
52 
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 QJ-AA-09-001-EN-C 
ISSN 1684-0666 ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2009 DE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 
European Court of Auditors' Annual Action Report 2009 
Luxembourg: Office for Publications of the European Union, 2010 ISBN 978-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518 (c) European Union, 2010 reprinted with reference. 
4 BORWORD OF THE PRESIDENT 4 Welcome to reading the Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors for 2009. 
The aim of this report is to provide readers with an overview of the main findings and progress made by the Court during this year and to inform them of the main developments in its audit environment and internal organisation. 
2009 was an important year of renewal for the EU, marked by the election of a new European Parliament, the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty and the launch of the process to select a new European Commission. 
The new Treaty confirms the Court's role and mission, as well as its status as an EU institution, and introduces changes in the management and control of EU funds, strengthening the role of the European Parliament and underlining the responsibility of Member States for the implementation of the budget. 
The Court expects that these developments will provide good opportunities to improve EU financial management. 
The Court's position section summarises our opinion on the risks and challenges faced by the new Commission. 
A high priority is given to improving the quality of EU spending. 
We have made significant progress during this year in implementing our audit strategy 2009-2012 and towards achieving our goals - increasing the impact of our work and making better use of our resources. 
A decisive step was our decision to submit a new Rules of Procedure to the Council of the European Union to streamline our procedures for the adoption of reports and opinions. 
In addition, the number of reports prepared by the Court increased from 42 in 2008 to 57 in 2009. 
I am also pleased to report that our core product, the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, once again received positive reception among our main institutional addressees who agreed to many of our recommendations. 
During 2009, the Court continued its active cooperation with the Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) to develop common approaches to auditing EU funds and to reflect on how the SAIs can support governments in coping with the financial and economic crisis. 
The performance of the Court depends on the competence and motivation of its 880 employees. 
Your satisfaction is a key factor in the Court's success and is quantified for the first time in this report. 
I would like to thank the Court's staff for their tireless and dedicated work, with which they enable the Court to fulfil its mission. 
The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing EU finances in accordance with the Treaty. 
As an EU external auditor, he contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens. 
Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and staff supplying its addressees with appropriate audit results, with all forms of influence being rejected by instructions or pressures from outside PROFESSIONALITY Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of its work MOREWERT EXCELLENZ AND EFFIZIENZ Establishing relevant, timely, high quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of its addressee and improvement of the EU's role in improving the functioning of the EU's activities and enhancing the effectiveness of the EU's performance in terms of efficiency and efficiency. 
Strategic ZIELE 7 PROFESSIONALITY OUTPUT Addressees Written up and growth of auditing methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with the EU-ORKBs, effective "Community control framework" selection of relevant audit topics, timeliness, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of performance audits, increasing the impact of reports deepening relations with audit bodies in order to improve understanding of the audit process and to achieve greater acceptance of audit results, use of peer review experience to strengthen and develop organisation, methods, procedures and results and maximise efficiency in strengthening contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as a budgetary and discharge authority pursuing effective and dynamic human resources policy High quality professional training; Modernisation of infrastructure Effective communication with EU citizens Implementation of IT strategies ZIELE THE audit strategy 2009-2012 ? Maximising the overall impact of the audits ? Improving efficiency by making the best use of resources 
The European Union's budget (2010) amounts to around EUR 123 billion, accounting for approximately 1 % of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States. 
However, for some Member States, EU funding plays an important role in the financing of public activities, and compared to the GNI of several Member States, the overall budget is significant. 
The revenue of the European Union consists mainly of contributions from Member States derived from their gross national income (GNI - 76 %), customs duties and agricultural duties (the so-called traditional own resources - 12 %) and a contribution based on the VAT collected by the Member States (VAT). 11 %. 
BOX 1 - WHAT IS THE EU SPENDING ITS MONEY ON? 
The EU budget is financed by Member States' financial contributions (mainly based on national GNI), customs duties and agricultural duties, as well as VAT contributions. 
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than national budgets, partly due to the different areas of competence. 
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1. 1 % Conservation and management of natural resources (mainly agriculture) 47.3 % The largest single expenditure area of the EU is agriculture and rural development, mainly in the form of payments to farmers, accounting for almost half of the budget expenditure. 
Cohesion measures - regional and social development - co-finance a wide range of projects, from road construction projects in Latvia to training for the unemployed in the Netherlands. 
This sector accounts for about one third of budgetary expenditure. 
The European Union as a global player EU spending Source: General budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010. Management 6.4 % 6.3 % Sustainable growth (mainly cohesion) 38.8 % 
The budget is determined annually, on the basis of the seven-year financial framework, by the Council, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and by the directly elected European Parliament. 
The European Commission sets up the budget and is also responsible for its implementation. 
The majority of the budget, in particular in the area of agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure, is implemented in cooperation with the Member States. 
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on applications from the beneficiaries themselves, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union. 9 
10 WHAT ROLE DOES THE COURT HAVE? 
Democratic societies need proper, publicly available information as a basis for discussion and decision-making, both with a view to improving financial management and ensuring accountability. 
In its capacity as an EU external auditor, the European Court of Auditors shall ensure that the EU funds have been correctly accounted for regardless of where they are used and spent in accordance with the relevant legislation and taking due account of the need for optimal use of funds. 
The results of the Court's audit work are used by the Commission, Parliament and Council as well as by the Member States to improve EU financial management. 
In addition to the Court's work, many national supervisory authorities are auditing EU funds provided that they are managed and spent by public bodies in the Member States. 
Overview ABOUT THE INTERNATIONAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU-HAUSHALTS EU level Commission (DGs, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing bodies European Court of Auditors National Control Authorities National level Internal control External control 
(AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS) 2. Are financial transactions in all material respects in line with the relevant legal and other regulatory framework? 
(COMPLIANCE TEST) 3. If financial management is economic, i.e. the use of funds has been minimised (separity), results have been achieved with the lowest possible use of resources (economicity) and have the objectives pursued (effectiveness) been achieved? 
The Court publishes the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: Annual reports - including the results of the audit of the accounts in the form of a statement of assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and the activities under the European Development Funds3. 
Specific annual reports - the results of the audit of the accounts of the Union agencies and decentralised bodies. 
11 1 Further information on the Court's audit methods can be found in the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
2 According to the TFEU, the Court is obliged to provide such a statement - or opinion - on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. 
The annual statement of assurance is generally known by the French acronym DAS ("Déclaration d'Assurance"). 
12 HOW DOES THE COURT PROCEED IN ITS AUDITS? 
The Court conducts its audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with international audit principles that are valid both in the public and private sectors. 
However, the existing international audit principles do not cover the compliance audit carried out by the Court. 
Together with the national supervisory authorities, the Court actively participates in the further development of international audit principles promoted by the Standardising Organisations (INTOSAI, IFAC)4. 
In order to ensure that payments are consistent with the legal and other regulatory framework, the Court relies on the results of both our analysis of supervisory and control systems aimed at preventing or detecting and correcting legality and regularity errors as well as a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2). 
Other sources, such as the statements of the management of the audited bodies in the form of the annual activity reports of the Directors-General of the Commission and the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions. 
In performance audits, the Court uses a variety of audit methods to assess the management and monitoring systems and to assess performance data against the criteria derived from the legislation and the principles of sound financial management. 
In the selection of topics for its performance audits, the Court strives to identify audit areas where the greatest impact can be expected in terms of the potential for improvement identified in terms of the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending. 
3 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are based both on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, as well as on Council Decisions on the Association of Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs). 
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see External Relations, Development and Enlargement) and partly through delegations in the beneficiary countries. 
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) - International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) - International Association of Accountants. 
Box 2 - PRACTICE OF PAYMENTS FROM THE EU HOUSE THROUGH THE HOUSE 13 We do not have the resources necessary to examine in detail all the transactions related to the EU budget. 
It therefore uses statistical sampling techniques to provide a result representative of the populations concerned. 
The Court monitors these transactions until the final beneficiary of the grant, for example a project promoter in Italy. 
The Court then checks - often on the spot - whether the application is in line with the actual circumstances. 
By being a representative sample, the results can be extrapolated to the population concerned, i.e. a specific revenue or expenditure area, and, together with information resulting from the assessment of management and control systems and other sources, serve as the basis for an overall audit opinion. 
Selection OF A PROVISION OF PROVISIONS Random selection of a representative sample Population of payments in the Cohesion area Payment to a project promoter in Italy 
5 14 Management structure AND ORGANISATION The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State. Members shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, for a term of office of six years. 
Members elect a president from among them for three years, with the possibility of re-election. 
Five audit groups to which individual members of the Court are assigned prepare the reports and opinions for adoption by the Court. 
As shown in the organisation chart, there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas, as well as another audit group dealing with "horizontal" issues. 
In addition, an administrative committee composed of members of the Court is responsible for preparing the Court's administrative decisions. 
At the end of 2009, the Court submitted to the Council a proposal to amend its Rules of Procedure in order to allow certain categories of opinions and reports to be adopted by the Court instead of the entire College of Chambers. 
These amendments will make the Court's decision-making more streamlined and efficient, including by reducing the time needed to adopt decisions. 
Each Chamber has two areas of competence: The first is the adoption of special reports, special annual reports and opinions, second, draft observations for the annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Funds and draft opinions for adoption by the College. 
As for the Court, decisions are taken by a majority of the members of the Chamber. 
Members may attend the meetings of all chambers, but are only entitled to vote in the Chamber to which they were assigned by the Court. 
Of course, the entire College continues to meet to discuss and adopt the documents for which the Court alone is responsible, such as the annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Funds. 
The role of the Management Committee will be strengthened. 
The Committee shall be composed of the President of the Court, who is chaired, and the Doyens of the Chambers. 
Administrative matters, the treatment of which requires a Court decision, as well as decisions on procedural, principle or strategic issues, are prepared by the Committee before they are submitted to the Court for adoption. 
The Member then presents the report in the audit group and in the Court and, after the report has been adopted, will also present the report to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested third parties. 
5 Further details can be found on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
In the budget for the financial year 2009, there are 880 posts for the European Court of Auditors (at 31. In December 2009). 
The Court's staff in the field of audits are responsible for the planning and execution of audits and the preparation of the resulting draft reports. 
The auditors work in teams of different sizes: For some specific audits, a team comprises four or five auditors, while some broader audits of the Court (e.g. audits of accounts/compliance audits in the area of agricultural and cohesion expenditure with a view to drawing up the annual statement of assurance) involve 20 or more auditors. 
As a general rule, auditors must obtain audit evidence in the context of an audit by means of different procedures: through desk checks in Luxembourg, visits to the European Commission and on-the-spot audits in the Member States where the revenue accruing to the EU budget is generated and the actions financed by the EU budget are implemented. 
The Court's reports and opinions must be accessible to readers throughout the Union. In addition, the Court has to maintain contacts with public authorities and other bodies throughout the Union in the course of its audit work. 
This would not be possible without the Court's translators who translate his reports and opinions (in almost all cases in English or French) into 22 of the official languages of the Union. 
They also translate correspondence between the Court and other bodies as needed and in some cases assist auditors in carrying out audit missions in the Member States. 
The Court's administrative staff is responsible for a variety of support tasks in a multinational body operating in the EU context. 
This concerns finance, accounting, budget, buildings, information technologies, transport, security, etc. The Secretary-General is the Court's highest-ranking staff member responsible for human resources management and administration. 15 
16 EUROPEAN CHOUSE 2009 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVICIENKE (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONCIC (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSANET (ES) Nadejda SANDOLOVA (BG) David BOSTOCK (UK) Gejza HALÁSZ (HU) Jan KINŠT (CZ) Olavi ALA-NISSILÄ (FI) Michel CRETIN (FR) 16 This organisation chart is as at 1 February 2010. 
An updated version can be found on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu. 
18 18 OVERVIEW ON REPORTS AND OPINION6 The number of special reports in 2009 was higher than in previous years, while the number of opinions decreased. 
The annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Funds were adopted as planned. 
Results (ANNEX) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Special Reports 6 11 9 12 18 Annual Reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 1 1 Special Annual Reports 20 23 29 29 37 Opinions 11 8 9 5 1 YEAR REPORTS TO HISTORY 2008 We audit the annual accounts and the EU revenue and expenditure every year. 
The results of this audit are presented to the EU, Parliament and Council political authorities in the Court's annual reports. 
6 The purpose of this section is to introduce the Court's reports and opinions and not to summarise their content. 
Further information can be found in the full text of the documents adopted by the Court, which will be published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET: Six key statements • The annual accounts of the European Union give a true and fair view of the financial situation and results. • As regards the legality and regularity of transactions, the overall results for 2008 reflect the improvements in budgetary management achieved in recent years. • The overall progress achieved in 2008 is primarily due to the better results in the main theme, "Agriculture and natural resources". 
In rural development, while the estimated level of error is lower than in previous years, it is still substantial. 
For the first time, the Court does not issue a negative audit opinion on the topic "Agriculture and Natural Resources" as a whole. • The second largest issue, 'Cohesion', accounting for almost one third of the budget, remains problematic as the most flawed budgetary area. 
According to the Court's estimate, at least 11 % of the total amount of reimbursement payments should not have been made. • The recommendations made by the Court in the past to improve supervisory and control systems remain valid. 
They shall be regarded as part of an ongoing process in which the relevant measures can only be considered effective after some time. • In addition, particular attention should be paid to expenditure areas where the Court continues to complain about a high level of error. 
In many cases, errors are a result of excessively complex regulations and regulations. 
That is why simplification remains a priority. 19 
20 Unrestricted opinion on the reliability of the accounts The Court concluded that the accounts of the European Communities for 2008 provide, in all material respects, a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Communities and the results of their operations and cash flows. 
For 2008, the Court issued unrestricted audit opinions on "revenues", commitments in all the subjects, as well as payments in the "Education and Citizenship" and "Administrative and Other Expenditure" issues. 
Limited audit opinions The payments in the "Agriculture and Natural Resources" theme, with the exception of rural development, were legal and regular in all material respects. 
Payments under economic and financial affairs, with the exception of expenditure related to the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP6) covered by this theme, were legal and regular in all material respects. 
Negative audit opinions On the topics "Cohesion", "Research, energy and transport" and "External aid, development and enlargement", the Court issued negative audit opinions. 
Payments in these issues were material, albeit of varying degrees, affected by errors. 
The supervisory and control systems in the areas of research, energy and transport, external assistance, development and enlargement, as well as "education and citizenship" were partially effective in preventing or detecting and correcting the reimbursement of excessive or non-reimbursable costs. 
In the case of agriculture and natural resources, the Court also concluded that the supervisory and control systems were partially effective. 
However, he pointed out that the Integrated Management and Control System (IACS) remains an effective control system in general. 
However, improvements are needed in some areas, particularly in rural development, where there were shortcomings. 
In the case of economic and financial affairs, the supervisory and control systems were found to be effective in two of the three audited areas. 
In the third area, 'Company', the systems were only considered to be partially effective, mainly due to shortcomings related to FP6. 
In the case of cohesion, the Court found that the Member States' systems dedicated to correcting errors detected in national controls were at least partially effective in most cases. 
Further efforts must be made by the Commission, Member States and other beneficiary States to implement the necessary improvements in the above-mentioned issues in order to adequately manage the risk of irregular expenditure. 
Box 3 - INTERPRETATION OF PRACTICES 21 An examiner may issue the following types of audit opinions: • full audit opinion where it is demonstrated that the accounts are reliable or that the underlying transactions, i.e. payments, are legal and regular in all material respects; • negative audit opinion where the error rate in the underlying transactions is material and comprehensive or the accounts are not reliable; • • refusal of the opinion if the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and adequate audit evidence in support of his or her opinion and the potential impact is both substantial and comprehensive; limited opinion where no unrestricted opinion can be delivered, but the effects of disagreements or limitations on the scope of the audit are not so substantial or comprehensive that they require a negative opinion or refusal of the opinion. 
22 KASTES 4 - SUMMARY SUMMARY OVERVIEW OF THE RECHURITY AND Regularity OF ACCESSORIES TO expenditure areas The table below summarises the overall assessment of the supervisory and control systems in line with the statements made in the respective chapters of the 2008 Annual Report and provides a rough overview of the results of the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors of representative samples of transactions. 
The table provides the key statements, but not all relevant details (in particular the deficiencies in the supervisory and control systems and the types of errors). This information can be found in the main part of the report. 
System evaluation SPANES OF Error rate Revenues Agriculture and natural resources: EUR 55 billion cohesion: EUR 36.6 billion in research, energy and transport: 7.5 billion euros External aid, development and enlargement: EUR 6.2 billion in education and citizenship: EUR 1.7 billion Economy and finance: 0.6 billion euros of administrative and other expenditure: 8.5 billion euro Assessment of supervisory and control systems Not effective Condition effective Effective range in which the estimated FQ > 5 % 2 % = FQ = 5 % FQ & 2 % (below the error rate (FQ) is materiality threshold) 
The Court concluded that the annual accounts of the EDFs for 2008 give a true and fair view of the financial position of the EDFs in all material respects. 
As regards the legality and regularity of transactions, the Court delivered an unrestricted opinion on EDF revenue and commitments. 
We also concluded that EDF payments were materially affected by errors. 
The Court assessed the supervisory and control systems for the EDFs as conditionally effective. 
In addition, 37 special annual reports on the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union for the financial year 2008 were adopted in 2009. 
Union agencies shall carry out a wide range of tasks at different locations within the Union. 
Each agency has a specific mission and manages its own budget. 
The audits of the Union agencies and other decentralised bodies shall be subject to specific annual reports, which shall be published separately. 
With the exception of the European Police College, the Court issued unrestricted audit opinions for all agencies on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. 23 
24 SPECIFICATIONS7 The selection of topics for economic performance and compliance audits and their design is based on criteria such as risk regarding the economic viability of certain revenue and expenditure or their compliance with legislation, expenditure volume, timing of the last audit, imminent developments in regulatory or operational framework conditions, as well as political and public interest. 
Since cost-effectiveness and compliance audits are complex and require a lot of detail work, their full implementation from the preliminary study to final reporting usually takes more than a year. 
The Court adopted a total of 18 special reports in 2009. 
The special reports are available directly on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) and a reference to their publication appears in the Official Journal. 
As in previous years, the reports related to investigations of financial management issues in many different areas and ranged, for example, from EU food aid to those in need (No 6/2009) to the Commission's treasury management (No 5/2009). 
In addition to the 18 special reports, the Court analysed the use of EU funds in 2009 with a view to converting the Chernobyl site to an ecologically safe state. 
Recommendations on how to improve the management of EU funds provided through the EBRD were sent to the President of the Commission in a letter (not published) from the Court President. 
The special reports adopted by the Court in 2009 are listed below by topic. 
In order to illustrate the nature of the issues dealt with and the conclusions drawn, a concise report will be presented on each topic. 
7 special reports are available on the Court's website or can be obtained with an electronic order form via the EU Bookshop. 
Sustainable Development • No 3/2009 "Impact of expenditure under structural measures for wastewater treatment during the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods" • No 7/2009 "Management of the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme" • No 8/2009 "Networks of excellence and integrated projects in Community research policy: Have the objectives been achieved? • No 13/2009 "Did the transfer of implementation tasks to executive agencies be an appropriate instrument?" • No 17/2009 "VET measures for women co-financed by the European Social Fund" 25 Management of the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme The Court examined the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme, which was launched with the aim of creating a European Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) and explained the causes of the identified misdevelopments. 
It concluded that the development and validation phase was inadequately managed. 
If the reorientation of EGNOS (Geostationary Navigation Supplementary Service for Europe) and Galileo programmes is to be successful in mid-2007, the Commission needs to significantly improve its programme management. 
The report contains a number of recommendations to facilitate this task for the Commission. 
Finally, if the EU decides to participate in other major infrastructure programmes, the Commission must ensure that it has appropriate management tools at its disposal. 
Preservation and Eminence of NATURAL RESSOURCES • No 6/2009 "European Union Food Aid to the Most Deprived: Evaluation of objectives, means and methods used • No 10/2009 "Information and promotion measures for agricultural products" • No 11/2009 "Sustainability of LIFE-Nature projects and their management by the Commission" • No 14/2009 "Has market control instruments for the market for milk and milk products achieved their main objectives?" 
26 Have the market control instruments for the milk and milk products market achieved their main objectives? 
The Court took stock of the functioning of the milk and milk products market since the introduction of milk quotas in 1984 and examined the Commission's approach to managing the gradual deregulation of the milk sector initiated in 2003. 
The situation at the end of 2008 forms the basis for the Court's recommendations to the Commission: Preventing new overproduction, monitoring the price formation process in the food chain, deepening the reflection on the future of producers in disadvantaged areas and the impact of the geographical concentration of milk production on the environment, continuing the focus of milk production on the needs of the European internal market and on high added-value dairy products that are exportable to the world market without budget support. 
EU citizenship, freedom, safety and law • No 2/2009 "The European Union Programme in the field of public health (2003-2007): an effective way to improve health? The European Union's Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective way to improve health? 
We analysed the European Union's Public Health Programme (PHP) for the period 2003-2007. 
The Court's audit should determine whether the framework conditions for projects financed by the EU budget have been defined in such a way that they effectively complement Member States' actions to protect and improve public health. 
The report contains detailed conclusions and recommendations on the design, implementation and management of the programme. 
Based on our findings, the Court questions the benefits of certain programme elements of European public health programmes such as PHP. 
The Commission and the Member States are invited to reconsider the EU's approach to public health funding. 
The EU AS GLOBALER PARTNER • No 1/2009 "Banking activities in the Mediterranean under the MEDA programme and the previous protocols" • No 4/2009 "Management of the involvement of non-state actors in Community development cooperation" • No 12/2009 "Impact of Commission projects in the field of Justice and Home Affairs for the Western Balkans" • No 15/2009 "EU assistance provided through United Nations organisations: Decision-making and control • No 16/2009 "The European Commission's management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey" • No 18/2009 "Effect of EDF assistance for regional economic integration in East Africa and West Africa" 27 Management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission. 
In particular, the first implementation period of pre-accession assistance (2002-2006) was characterised by many weaknesses that had already occurred in previous pre-accession programmes. 
The objectives set by the Commission with regard to grants were not specific enough to allow an assessment of the impact of the project; in addition, the Commission did not have the necessary information to demonstrate the effectiveness of pre-accession assistance. 
Nevertheless, the planned outputs have been delivered for the audited projects and the project results are likely to be sustainable. 
The Commission has already made some significant improvements; nevertheless, the Court makes recommendations for further corrective action. 
Areas where improvements are most needed include the definition of strategic objectives for the grant, the definition of more realistic deadlines for achieving the objectives and monitoring of actual project performance and project results on the basis of clear objectives and appropriate indicators. 
28 ADOPTED • No 5/2009 "Cash management at the Commission" • No 9/2009 "Economicity and effectiveness of staff selection activities of the European Personnel Selection Office" Economicity and effectiveness of the staff selection activities of the European Personnel Selection Office The Court focused on how the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) managed the significant increase in the number of competitions due to the enlargement of the European Union and whether it provided timely aptitude lists that contained the required number of successful candidates and were geographically balanced. 
It concluded that EPSO had successfully managed the increase in the number of competitions due to the enlargement of the European Union. 
However, the following weaknesses were to be criticised: The staffing needs of the institutions were not notified in good time to EPSO, the staff selection process took too long, the competitions showed on average only two thirds of the planned number of successful candidates (who were included in the list of candidates) and the management information was not consistently reliable or complete. 
Opinions Another contribution of the Court to improving EU financial management is to deliver opinions on proposals or budgetary issues. 
These opinions are required as part of the procedure for the adoption of financial rules8 or may be made at the request of one of the other Union institutions9. 
In 2009, the Court adopted an opinion on the proposal amending the Regulation of the Committee on Budgets of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market on the Financial Rules of the Office ('the Financial Regulation'). 
8 Article 322 TFEU. 
9 Article 287(4) TFEU. 
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned, in the European context, primarily by the Commission, the Parliament, the Council and the Member States. 
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the Court's audit conclusions. 
Although the Court's audit work has its main impact on the published reports and opinions, there is already a certain impact throughout the course of the audits itself. 
The replies of the audited body - notably the Commission - will be combined 29 As examples of the impact of the Court's work, the Commission took action in response to the 2007 discharge resolution (and the impact of which mainly came into effect in 2009): In the field of agricultural expenditure, the management and control system for expenditure under the newly created European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) has been aligned with the EAGF guarantee system, so that the broadly recognised benefits of this system will also apply to EAFRD expenditure (see paragraph 5.54 of the 2004 Annual Report and paragraph 5.57 of the 2007 Annual Report). 
In the area of cohesion, the Commission continues to work on a revision of the rules applicable to 2007-2013 in order to simplify the system for reporting irregularities. It undertook to draw up a report at the beginning of 2010 on the actions carried out in 2009 and the first impact of all the actions of its Action Plan to strengthen the Commission's supervisory role in the management of structural measures (see paragraphs 1.53 and 6.36(a) of the 2007 Annual Report). 
In the field of external policy areas In order to strengthen controls at the level of implementing organisations, the Commission plans to develop a specific instrument to better support these organisations in managing EU funds and comply with EU rules (see paragraph 8.33(a) of the 2007 Annual Report). 
In the field of internal policies, including research, the Commission has drawn up a multiannual control strategy for the Sixth Framework Programme. This is based on the detection and correction of errors that could not be detected by desk checks prior to the payment. 
In order to simplify the procedures of the Seventh Framework Programme, the Commission introduced a Participant Guarantee Fund to significantly reduce the number of ex ante financial controls and safeguards to be provided (see paragraphs 7.43(b), 10.34 and 2.42(a) of the 2007 Annual Report). 
Source: Report from the Commission to the European Parliament on the follow-up to the 2007 discharge decisions. 
Special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure. 
Due to the fact that they are published in the course of the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate on this matter have usually taken place at an earlier stage at the meetings of the Parliament and of the Council. 
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by their topic in the relevant media, which attracts greater attention and encourages public discussion. 
As a rule, the media coverage of the Court's annual report is quite comprehensive. 
This was also the case in 2009 with media focus primarily on improvements in agricultural spending. 
Several special reports were also followed by the press with interest. 
For example, the Special Report on the Milk Market (No 14/2009), which assessed the extent to which the control instruments for the milk and milk products market achieved their main objectives, was the subject of intensive discussions in the Council and Parliament. In addition, at a time when the sector is struggling with a variety of problems, it triggered a broad echo in the media and the relevant professional groups. 
The Court is working to further analyse the impact of its activities. 
In 2009, it started developing a systematic follow-up procedure for its special reports to identify and document the progress made by the audited bodies in addressing the weaknesses identified and the implementation of the recommendations made. 
This procedure will provide additional feedback to the Court, as well as Parliament and other interested parties, on the impact of its activities. 
31 OPINION OF THE HOFES OPINION NO 1/2010 - CONSOLIDATION OF THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN UNION: In February 2010, for the first time, the Court delivered an opinion on measures to reduce the level of irregular payments at the level of the EU budget and to improve the quality of expenditure (saving, cost-effectiveness and effectiveness). 
We concluded that, in order to increase recent progress in reducing the level of irregular payments, legislation in the high-risk areas needs to be simplified and more cost-effective control systems should be put in place. 
Such reforms should take place in the context of the ongoing broader review of EU spending regimes. 
In the Court's view, improving the quality of expenditure is of high importance, which can be achieved by applying the concept of European added value in setting spending priorities and by addressing the specific problems identified by the Court in the selection, design and implementation of expenditure programmes and grant schemes. 
Although the level of irregular payments from the EU budget as a whole has decreased, it remains high in the areas of cohesion and external assistance, development and enlargement, as well as the Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development and rural development expenditure. 
Most irregularities are based on the notification of ineligible expenditure by beneficiaries, the notification of excessive eligible expenditure and non-compliance with payment conditions, for example in the area of public procurement rules. 
They are primarily due to the complexity of the rules and payment terms and to deficiencies in the risk management systems at the level of final beneficiaries. 
The Commission should address the specific system deficiencies identified by the Court in the high-risk areas and improve its oversight. 
However, with more and more controls and correspondingly decreasing error rates, the point at which control costs are no longer proportionate to the benefits achieved has been reached at some point. 
Simplification should therefore remain a priority objective. 
Clearly interpreted and easy to apply rules and legislation can reduce not only the risk of error, but also the costs of control. 31 
32 CONCEPTION OF expenditure programmes In addition to simplification, the Commission should ensure that clear objectives are set when revising existing measures and designing new measures. 
More sense of reality as well as increased transparency and accountability are often required. 
To this end, the Commission could further strengthen the existing procedures for the development of future strategies, in particular ex ante evaluation and impact assessment. 
We propose to clarify the concept of European added value in an appropriate political declaration or in EU legislation in order to provide guidance to EU political authorities in defining expenditure priorities. 
The Court considers that the Commission should finalise the review of the budget as soon as possible and take into account the corresponding results in the preparation of the financial framework starting in 2014. 
Improving the quality of expenditure should be of high importance to the institutions of the European Union and should therefore be the main objective of the new Commission. 
33 HOFES FOR 201010 The Court presents its future audit work every year in a work programme submitted to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and available to the public on the Court's website. 
The work programme provides interested parties with information on new and ongoing audits as well as on planned reports. 
We developed an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012 based on two priority objectives: Maximise the overall impact of the audits and improve efficiency by making the best use of resources. 
These objectives will significantly shape the Court's 2010 work programme and its continuous improvement efforts. 
The Court aims to maximise the overall impact of its audits over the relevant period by selecting and designing audits that focus on topics from risk areas and which are of greatest interest to the Court's audience; • continue to present sound audit conclusions and useful suggestions for improvement and follow up on whether these proposals are being implemented; • carry out a wider range of audits and present new types of audit products that complement the current annual and special reports; • create a larger number of special reports and improve their timeliness and ease of use; • further strengthen its relations with its main addressees, including the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as with the media and the general public. During the relevant period, the Court aims to improve efficiency by making the best use of its resources. 
This includes • a better line; • an effective and dynamic human resources policy; • rationalisation of audit tasks; • the improvement of IT tools; • the development of expertise; • the development of relations with the audited bodies. 
33 10 A more complete and detailed overview of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2010 work programme, which is available on our website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
34 For the 2010 work programme, the Court has selected certain audit priorities, including: • Multi-annual nature of a large part of Community expenditure, including flat-rate corrections and recoveries; • Innovation and internal market; • Human capital; • sustainable energy; • Commission strategy to simplify the legal framework for businesses and citizens. 
On 1 July 2009, the foundation stone for a new building, the second enlargement of the European Court of Auditors, was laid in Luxembourg. 
Vítor Caldeira, President of the European Court of Auditors, Claude Wiseler, Luxembourg's Minister for Buildings, Patrick Gillen, President of the Fund d'urbanisation et d'aménagement du Kirchberg, and Eduardo Ruiz García, General Secretary of the Court, signalled the start of the construction work with the symbolic first groundbreaking ceremony. 
This extension of the European Court of Auditors' building complex, already consisting of two buildings, will allow staff recruited in the course of successive Union enlargements to be accommodated. 
In 2009-2012, the Court will endeavour to broaden its range of audit-related reporting types. 
To this end, it will coordinate with its main external addressees to ensure that they gain a clear understanding of their different needs and how best to meet their expectations in fulfilling their mandate under the Treaty. 
A significant proportion of the resources available to the Court is used to audit the accounts with a view to drawing up a statement of assurance (the so-called "DAS"). 
This requires, for each financial year, the examination and audit of the accounts and transactions under the general budget of the EU. 
Separate declarations of assurance are drawn up on the European Development Funds and each of the 40 European agencies and bodies. 
The audit work shall cover from June of year n to June of year n+ 1 in order to publish the annual reports in November of year n+ 1 in accordance with the Financial Regulation. 
The Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2009 will therefore be drawn up and published in 2010, and at the same time the Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2010 will start11. 
The aim of the Court's work is to provide clear conclusions on the state of play of accounting and financial management in the various areas of the general budget and to make appropriate and cost-effective recommendations where improvements are possible. 
The Court's annual report on the general budget for 2009 will continue to be in line with the structure introduced in 2007 and taking into account the reorganisation of the budget12. 
The findings are presented under chapters relating to related groups of policy areas (thematic groups). This structure is largely - but not entirely - in line with the headings of the new financial framework. 
It will also be a particular concern for the Court to present its findings and conclusions even more clearly and coherently in order to make them more comprehensible and legible and to simplify the comparison within and between them and between financial years. 
35 11 Further information on the DAS approach can be found on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu. 
12 The Court has set up a DAS think tank to reconsider various aspects of the DAS audit approach. In this context, it is also considered to redefine the areas of specific assessments. 
In 2008, the Court decided to introduce a system of key performance indicators (ZLIs) for its audit-related and non-audit activities to measure performance in achieving the Court's strategic objectives and objectives set out in the annual work programmes. 
ZLI serves to strengthen internal and external accountability and increase work efficiency and quality. WHY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS? • To inform management of how successful the Court as an institution implements what it intended; • to support the decision-making process by focusing the institution's attention on efficiency issues and by promoting improvements; • to provide the addressee with information on relevant aspects related to the Court's performance. 
The ZLIs primarily concern the achievement of the Court's strategic objectives, as they cover audit quality, output, impact and economic management of the Court's resources. 
They provide information on the Court's performance as a "company" and are an integral part of the Court's management system. 
The CENTRAL SERVICE INDICATORS OF HOFES 37 ZLI 1 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the main addressees of the Court's reports ZLI 2 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the audit body ZLI 3 Assessment of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a panel of external experts ZLI 4 Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audit body (b) implemented by the audited body within a certain number of years ZLI 5 Number of reports adopted against the number of planned reports ZLI 6 Number of financial reports adopted by the audited body a) Audit opinion of the independent auditor b) Decision of the discharge authority ZLI 9 degree of satisfaction of the staff of the Court ZLI 10 Average number of training days per person quantity and quality of audit work can also be improved by considering the impact of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management. 
Four key performance indicators (1 to 4) are used to measure the impact of the Court's work. 
They have been included in the Court's 2010 annual work programme. 
38 Number of adopted reports compared to the number of planned reports In 2009, the Court adopted 91 % of the planned number of reports. 
The annual report and all special annual reports were adopted as planned. 
Of the planned 24 special reports, only 18 were adopted. 
The remaining six special reports were at 31. ==References====External links== 
In 2009, the Court adopted 67 % of its reports within the given timeframe. 
The annual report and all special annual reports were adopted on time. 
Due to delays in the special reports, the Court failed to meet the ZLI 6 target. Further efforts are needed to improve compliance with the deadlines for the adoption of the special reports. 
Measuring the number of key audit reports drawn up in due time, the Court sends its preliminary audit results to the audit body in an audit statement. 
It strives to increase the proportion of audit notifications submitted on time by 10 % annually, with the long-term objective of producing 80 % of audit notifications within the specified timeframe (two months after the final audit visit). 
In 2009, the number of audit notifications prepared on schedule increased by 16 % compared to 2008. 
External assessment of the Court's financial management: a) Audit opinion of the independent auditor, (b) Decision of the discharge authority The Court's independent auditor gave an unrestricted opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources, and the European Parliament granted discharge following a positive recommendation from the Council. 
In an internal survey on employee satisfaction conducted in 2009, 86 % of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their work (target: 80 %), while the level of employee satisfaction totalled 2.8 on a scale of 4 (target: 2,5). 
Average number of days of training for auditors (excluding language courses) In line with guidelines published by the IFAC (International Federation of Accountants), the Court strives to provide the auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training. 
In 2009, the average was four days. 
39 INTERNATIONAL SUMMARY The Court actively and fully continued its international cooperation within the following bodies: • in the Contact Committee, composed of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States and of the Court, • in the network of Supreme Audit Institutions of the countries that have applied for EU membership, • in the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI) and • in the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI). 
The Court contributed to the annual meetings of these organisations and to the improvement of international audit principles and procedures, and was also actively involved in the committees and working groups set up by these organisations. 
In particular, he carried out the following tasks: • Chair of the Working Groups on Common Audit Standards and Value Added Tax established by the Contact Committee; • Participation in the Working Groups "Reports of National SAIs" and "Structural Funds" set up by the Contact Committee; • Participation in the EUROSAI Environment Working Group and the IT Working Group, the EUROSAI Group, which prepares a guide on best practices to achieve quality, in the EUROSAI Training Committee and the EUROSAI Task Force on the assessment of disaster relief funds; • Chair of the INTOSAI working group on accountability and assessment of disaster relief; • Participation in the INTOSAI sub-committees for guidelines for auditing accounting, auditing compliance with legal standards and performance audits, and in the Task Force on the Global Financial Crisis. 39 
40 40 PERSONAL AND support services The main asset of the Court is its staff. 
At 31. In December 2009, the Court's staff was 880 (officials and temporary staff but excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees). 
Of the staff, 525 (including 115 staff in Members' Cabinets) were involved in audit-related tasks; 163 were translators, 171 staff with administrative support and 21 in the office of the President. 
The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output. 
BREAKDOWN OF THE COURT'S POSTS AT 31. December (occupied and vacant posts) Translation Administrative support The Court is committed to achieving its strategic goal of improving efficiency through the best use of resources. 
Therefore, in 2009 he continued to explore and exploit the potential for efficiency gains in all its activities by simplifying procedures and streamlining services. 
In particular, resources of the support services made available through efficiency gains have been deducted from these services as far as possible and made available for audit-related tasks. 
This process has not yet been completed and its impact will be even more significant in 2010. 
For human resources, the Court defined the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's staff as a key performance indicator (ZLI 9) (see page 37). 
A satisfaction survey was conducted to provide information on this topic and to support the decision-making process in this area. 
We are currently implementing measures to ensure that opportunities to achieve better results are fully exploited in the coming years. 
2008 173 2009 Audit related tasks 501 525 163 163 171 20 21 President's services 857 880 
The proportion of men and women was almost the same. 
12.2001 12.2009 The graphs below show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility at 31. December 2009. 
Like the other European institutions, the Court pursues an equal opportunities policy in terms of human resources management and recruitment and recognises the need to more actively promote equal treatment between men and women in recruitment at senior management levels. 
17 of the 64 Directors and Heads of Division/Unit (26.5 %) are women; this represents a slight increase in the proportion of women since 2008 (24 %). 
However, most of them are active in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative services. 
The increase in the number of women in function group AD reflects the results of the recent wave of recruitment. 
43 % of employees in grades AD5 to AD8 are female. 
Directors and Heads of Unit 2008 2009 41 54 % 46 % 51 % 49 % 76 % 24 % 73.5 % 26.5 % 
42 auditors - Boards of Directors (functional group AD) 2008 2009 Assistants - Secretaries (function group AST) 2008 2009 From the graph below showing the age profile of the 862 staff of the Court, who stood at 31. In December 2009, it was found that the Court is a "young" institution (61 % of employees are not older than 44 years). 
Among the 99 farm staff aged 55 or older, there are 24 of the 64 directors and department/department heads; this means that over the next five to ten years, there will be substantial new appointments at senior management levels. 
170 150 131 103 63 34 2 67 % 33 % 63 % 37 % 27 % 73 % 33 % 67 % AGE PROFILE 161 47 1 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65- 
Recruitment The ECA's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff consists of both officials and temporary staff. 
Open competitions for ECA posts are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
In addition, the Court provides internships for a limited number of graduates for periods of three to five months. 
In 2009, the Court hired 112 employees: 69 officials, 14 temporary staff and 29 contract staff. 
Recruitment depends on whether reserve lists of EPSO competitions are available and sufficient. 
The Court managed to recruit an adequate number of new staff in 2009. 
The 73 at the 31st By 26 January 2010, unsubstantiated posts could be reduced by 33 % to 49 in December 2009. The number of vacancies will continue to decline sharply in the coming months, as further staff members will take up their duties as part of the recent wave of recruitment. 
At 31. In December 2008, 68 posts were not filled. 
The reserve list for recruitment based on EPSO competition AD/126/08 was published in August and the first successful candidates joined the Court in early November, i.e. only three months later. 
The profession of examiner requires continuous training. 
In addition, due to the specific circumstances of the Court's audit environment, auditors need good foreign language skills. 
In 2009, the Court's staff completed an average of nine days of professional training. 
Language courses accounted for 64 % of the total number of training days in 2009 (compared to 48 % in 2008). 
Without taking into account the language courses, the examiners completed four days of professional training in 2009 (see ZLI 10 on page 38). 
This figure is expected to increase in 2010 as new staff will have to undergo a mandatory training programme. 
On the basis of the long-term strategic objective "Development and growth" and the guidance plan for training for the years 2008-2011 and the training paths adopted in 2009, the Professional Training Unit has made improvements in the content of training activities and developed new training courses in line with the priorities decided by the Court. 
In addition, cooperation with the other institutions and with inter-institutional bodies such as the European Administrative School has been successfully continued. 
Box 5 provides a portrait of the staff of an audit unit within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work carried out and the persons involved. 43 
44 KASTEN 5 - THE PRESS FOR THEMA "JUSTIZ AND INNERS IN THESE BALKAN" PROVIDED TEAM The Western Balkans have been marked by violence in the past. 
The European Union's interest in this region is to promote security and long-term stability. 
The rule of law, border security and the fight against corruption are prerequisites for joining the EU and pose a major challenge in the Western Balkans. 
The European Commission is the main donor of funding in the region. 
The Court's 2009 report on the effectiveness of the Commission's Justice and Home Affairs projects for the Western Balkans (Special Report No 12/2009) provided an insight into the situation in this particularly important area. 
The audit concerned both investment projects and institution building projects in the four areas of asylum, integrated border management, the judiciary and the police. 
33 completed projects were examined on the spot, including an asylum centre, a prison in Albania and a court responsible for human rights and war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
In addition, several EU-funded border crossing points in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia were visited to assess whether EU action led to improvements. 
The team responsible for carrying out the audit worked closely with the rapporteur member, Maarten B. Engwirda. 
The Heads of Unit responsible for monitoring the audit were Raija Peltonen and Ossi Louko; the team leader was Jussi Bright. 
The auditors involved were Enrico Grassi and Miroslav Matej, with Horst Fischer and Jan Pieter Lingen from the cabinet of Maarten B. Engwirda also playing an important role. 
From left to right: Raija PELTONEN, Head of Unit; Jan Pieter LINGEN, Head of Cabinet; Horst FISCHER, Cabinet Attaché; Jussi BRIGHT, Chief Financial Audit Board (Team Leader); Maarten B. ENGWIRDA, Member of the Court; Ossi LOUKO, Head of Unit; Enrico GRASSI, Audit Board; Miroslav MATEJ, Financial Audit Board i.e. 
Translation Translation is an important activity of audit support that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and achieve its communication objectives. 
In 2009, the total translation volume increased by 5.2 % compared to 2008. 
The proportion of translation services provided on time was over 95 %. 
The linguistic support of auditors in connection with audit visits and the drafting of reports has been increased. 
In addition, the Directorate for Translation supported INTOSAI working groups and covered other specific needs related to the Court's audit work. 
In January 2010, a new computer application (Artemis) was introduced to manage translation work more efficiently. 
Information technology provides the auditors with essential tools and services. 
The most important developments were recorded in 2009: • Simplifying processes and continuing the transition to a paperless office by applying automated authorisations (visibility notes) and electronic forms, introducing electronic signatures and launching work on the establishment of an archive database; • Improving the security of the Court's IT infrastructure by establishing a data recovery centre and releasing a further developed version of the Lotus Emergency Platform, the basic framework for the Court's news and audit documentation/archiving systems; • Adoption of a long-term IT plan for the period 2010-2012 to align the information technology sector with the Court's main audit strategic objectives and to continue efforts to provide high-quality services. 45 
The Directorate for Finance and Support Services is responsible for administrative services and infrastructure. 
These include internal controls and accounting, as well as administrative and logistical services. 
In 2009, the Directorate focused on reorganising its services in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness and to release staff for redeployment in favour of audit services. 
This reorganisation resulted in a reduction in the number of units belonging to the Directorate (from five to three) and the implementation of several posts in audit services. 
An important activity of the Directorate concerned the construction of a new farm building (the "K3 building"). 
In 2009, a project manager was appointed after a call for tenders. 
Construction work is expected to begin in March 2010 and is expected to be completed in 2013. 
The time and cost of the project will continue to be respected. 
Audit visits During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and other beneficiary countries from EU funds in order to obtain adequate audit evidence. 
Visits usually apply to central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as the respective final recipients. 
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors and the duration of an audit trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of examination and distance. 
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the visited Member State, which provide useful logistical and practical support. 
The graph below gives an overview of the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in 2009 in the EU Member States (300). 
In addition, 36 audit missions outside the Union took place in 2009. 
47 50 40 30 20 10 0 AUDIT VISITS IN THE MEMBER STATES (TOTAL: 300) 48 34 30 23 17 17 15 15 14 88 77 666 4 333 2222 11 France Germany Spain Italy Greece United Kingdom Poland Portugal Belgium Netherlands Denmark Hungary Sweden Czech Republic Slovakia Lithuania Ireland Slovenia Latvia Romania Cyprus Finland Bulgaria Luxembourg Malta Estonia 
In 2009, the implementation rate of the total available budget amounted to more than 92 %. 
For Title 1 (Members and staff of the institution), this rate is 88 %, with the lowest in Chapter 14 (Other staff and external services) (82 %); this is mainly due to the non- or under-occupation of posts and savings achieved. 
For Title 2 (buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure), the average execution rate is almost 100 %. 
The amount of payments to be charged to Chapter 20 (Buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the second extension of the Court (K3 building). 
The first funding tranche for this project, amounting to 55 million euro, was approved for the 2009 budget; the corresponding amount was committed and partly disbursed in 2009. 
The remaining appropriations for the K3 building were carried over to 2010 and are intended to cover the costs arising from contracts with construction companies concluded by the project manager on behalf of the Court. 
The appropriations will be used as explained by the Court in its request submitted to the European Parliament and the Council at the end of 2008. 
Financial year 2009 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services Definitive appropriations 11 718 91 986 4 597 3 290 commitments 11 318 79 903 3 800 payments (EUR 1 000) 11 205 79 744 3 763 248 1 678 98 538 7 313 3 604 718 275 655 1 055 13 620 112 158 Use of appropriations in % (commitments/dedicated appropriations) 96, 59 86.86 82.66 86.66 85.96 87.66 99.97 99.84 94.12 91.75 99.09 97.22 99.74 92.39 
Budget 2010 The Court's 2010 budget accounts for around 0.1 % of the total EU budget and 1.87 % of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies. 
The table below shows the breakdown of appropriations by the different budget lines. 
Staff resources account for around 76 % of the total budget in 2010. 
The 2010 budget decreased by 21 % compared to 2009, mainly due to a decrease in appropriations for the new farm building (K3). 
Construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of EUR 79 million, to be financed in four consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and 6 million euros in 2012. 
49 HOUSHALT 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and related costs 23 - Operating expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 2010 4 590 3 861 877 404 868 2 389 29 421 2009 4 497 3 290 2 684 981 439 868 1 921 2008 13 364 94 246 11 718 92 086 (EUR 1 000) 12 061 88 712 4 248 3 212 286 20 - Building Title 1 total 118 511 18 518 6 365 114 275 62 891 6 269 110 519 12 110 579 1 147 425 876 1 813 Title 2 total 73 369 Court of Auditors 147 932 187 644 22 250 132 769 
50 SERVICES "INTERNE REVISION" The Court's Internal Audit Service is designed to assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives through a systematic, methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures. 
In addition, the Internal Audit Service makes proposals to increase the efficiency of the Court. 
This requires a permanent assessment of the internal control systems within the Court in order to assess their effectiveness. 
In 2009, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused its work on auditing the accounts (audit of accounts), a review of ex ante control, payroll and custody accounts audits, follow-up of contracts and public procurement procedures and an analysis of the promotion procedure. 
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the Internal Auditor in 2009 were accepted by the audited bodies and included in corrective action plans. 
The Court's Internal Audit Committee monitors the work of the Internal Auditor and ensures his independence. 
It also examines and approves the work programme and the reports of the Internal Auditor and, where necessary, instructs them to carry out specific audit tasks. 
In 2009, the Internal Audit Service was audited and certified by an independent auditor, Deloitte S.A.. 
The report of the independent auditor on the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2008 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 23 October 2009. 
C 254 of 23.10.2009). In his opinion, the Court's independent auditor (PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL) reached the following conclusions: To the annual accounts: "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23. December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the above-mentioned Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors.' "Based on our work steps described in this report, we have not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria (a) the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and (b) the control procedures put in place do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 51 
52 52 REGULATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE DECISION The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, that the information provided to the Court for the preparation of this report is accurate and accurate13 and • confirms with reasonable assurance that - the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that - the control procedures put in place provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions14. 
This sufficient assurance is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as the results of ex post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's reports on previous financial years. 
The undersigned confirms that he is not aware of any unreported circumstance which could harm the interests of the institution. 
Luxembourg, 12 February 2010 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 13 "Only and accurately" means in this context that a reliable, complete and correct picture of the state of service is conveyed. 
14 In this context, the term 'basic transactions' refers to the transactions for which the undersigned is an authorising officer by delegation. 
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2009 Luxembourg: Office for Publications of the European Union 2010-52 pp. - 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518 
Where do I get EU publications? Paid publications: • via the EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • about the bookstore indicating the title, the publisher and/or the ISBN number; • directly from one of our sales outlets. 
The contact details can be obtained via the Internet address http://bookshop.europa.eu or by fax at + 352 2929-42758. 
Free publications: • via the EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • to the Representations and Delegations of the European Commission. 
The contact details can be obtained via the Internet address http://ec.europa.eu or by fax at + 352 2929-42758. www.eca.europa.eu 
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 QJ-AA-10-001-EN-C 
European Court of Auditors YEARABLE TODAY REPORT 2010 
The Court of Auditors is committed to the following values: The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing EU finances under the Treaty. 
As an EU external auditor, it contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens by promoting accountability and transparency. 
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, characterised by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism and the quality and impact of its work, providing valuable support to its audience in order to improve EU financial management. 
Independence, INTEGRITITY AND UNPARTICILITY PROFESSIONALITY PROFESSIONALITY EXCELLENT AND EFFIZIENZ Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and staff drawing up relevant, timely, high quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, take into account the concerns of its audience and include important and directional statements recognising the value of the individual, supporting the development of specific skills and rewarding performance by promoting team spirit through effective communication of its audience with appropriate audit results, with respect to all forms of efficiency and external impact on all aspects of the EU's work-making and management. 
3 CONTENT page 4-5 7 9-25 22 23-25 26-45 26-27 28-33 34-39 40-42 43-45 BORWORD OF THE PRESIDENT 2010 ON A CLICK OUR TACTIVITIES Audit reports and opinions Cooperation with other ORKB OUR MANAGEMENT Implementation of the 2009-2012 Strategy Measurement data on the Court's performance in 2010 Audit support Financial information Audit and accountability 
4 OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to reading the fourth edition of the Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors. This year, we took the opportunity to reclassify the content, namely the two main sections "Our activities" and "Our management", and present an overview of all performance indicators for the first time. 
In 2010, the Court of Auditors offered two important opportunities to participate in the debate on the reform of EU financial management. 
At the beginning of the year, the Court presented an opinion to the new Commission on the main risks and challenges of improving EU financial management and, towards the end of the year, an opinion on the Commission's proposals to amend the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the EU. 
With a view to 2011, the Court will continue to implement its values unchanged and further expand the performance and earnings achieved. 
We will once again present high-quality, independent and objective reports and opinions that help improve EU financial management and promote accountability and transparency. In particular, the Court will continue to closely monitor developments in the area of EU economic governance and address the new legislative proposals affecting EU financial management after 2013. 
We plan to publish 45 annual reports, i.e. the annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and on the European Development Funds, as well as the specific annual reports on the agencies, institutions and other bodies. 
Special reports provide an important opportunity to achieve added value, as they focus on areas at increased risk and on topics of particular relevance for the target groups. In particular, the Court intends to report on the quality of EU expenditure in a wide range of areas ranging from financial instruments and the SME Guarantee Facility to EU-funded projects in the field of eGovernment and the Single Payment Scheme in agriculture. 
In further implementing its 2009-2012 strategy, the Court hopes to fully exploit the merits of its recent reforms, including the streamlined decision-making procedures. The Court will continue its efforts to recruit suitable staff, limit the vacancies to a minimum and promote the professional development of its staff. 
Without the commitment and professionalism of all our employees, we would not have achieved what we achieved in 2010. 
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5 7 2010 A summary of the Rules of Procedure of the Chief Executive Officers of the Court of Auditors, including the annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2009 o 40 specific annual reports on the various agencies, institutions and other bodies of the EU for the financial year 2009 o 40 specific annual reports on the various EU agencies, bodies and other bodies for the financial year 2009 o 14 special reports, mainly on performance audits o Opinions on improving the EU budget, and five other opinions on new or amended EU legal acts, including the proposal to amend the Financial Regulation o Rege participation in international auditing practices in the field of public financial control and of the specialised community, etc. 
9 OUR REPORTS AND OPINIONS The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are as follows: annual reports - with the results of its accounts and compliance audits on specific financial years (including the specific annual reports published separately on the Agencies, Institutions and other bodies of the European Union); O Special Reports - which can be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits, mainly performance audits to assess the economy, efficiency and effectiveness in selected EU revenue and expenditure areas; O Opinions on draft legal acts with financial implications. 
Number of reports and opinions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 Special annual reports (EU Agencies, Institutions and other bodies) 23 29 29 37 40 Special Reports 11 9 12 18 14 Opinions 8 9 5 1 6 The full version of the individual reports and opinions is available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu). 
1 OJ C 303, 9.11.2010. The key statements of the annual report were as follows: • The annual accounts of the European Union present fairly the financial situation and the results of operations and cash flows in all material respects as a whole. • Except for two expenditure areas ("economic and financial" and "administrative and other expenditure"), payments from the budget remain materially affected by errors. • According to the Court's estimates, the most likely error rate for cohesion expenditure was significantly lower than in previous years, and for the budget as a whole, the error rate estimated by the Court has decreased in recent years. • The Commission has improved its information on recovery of amounts unduly paid and other corrections. 
However, this information is not yet fully reliable. The Commission's information on corrective actions does not allow a meaningful comparison with the error rate estimated by the Court. In the report, we set out recommendations on how financial management could be improved by strengthening management systems and simplifying rules and regulations. 
The Annual Report on the European Development Funds for 2009 We published its Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2009 on 9 November 2010, together with the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2009. 
The Special Annual Reports on the EU Agencies, Institutions and Other Bodies for 2009 In December 2010, we published 40 specific annual reports on the EU Agencies, Institutions and other bodies for the financial year 20092. 2 OJ 
C 342 of 16.12.2010. The Court concluded that the supervisory and control systems ensure conditionally the regularity of payments. In the report, the Court makes recommendations to improve some aspects of the financial management of the EDFs, including the cost-effectiveness of expenditure controls, the checks on the annual audit of completed projects and the controls on the use and monitoring of budget support. 
12 Special Reports adopted in 2010 When selecting and designing its tasks for cost-effectiveness and compliance audits, the Court is always committed to achieving the greatest possible impact, taking into account the best possible use of the resources allocated to these tasks. 
In the selection of topics, the Court takes into account the following factors: • the risks to profitability or compliance with legal standards in the relevant revenue or expenditure area; • the amount of revenue or expenditure concerned; • the time elapsed since any previous examination; • upcoming developments within the relevant legal or operational framework; • political and public interest. 
In order to obtain the required audit evidence, the selected profitability and compliance audits must be carefully planned and carried out. In addition, before the report is published, the Court gives the audited bodies the opportunity to comment on its findings and to formulate responses. 
As a result, these tests usually take more than one year. 
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN IMPROVING TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE ON TRANS-EUROPEAN RAIL AXES: HAVE EU RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS BEEN EFFECTIVE? 
Special Report No 8 2010 ISSN XXXX-XXXX 
13 The main stages of a selected cost-effectiveness or compliance review preliminary study to determine the feasibility of the audit with more details. 
Detailed planning with definition of objectives and scope as well as the approach and methods to be used. 
Analysis of the findings and confirmation of the facts by the audited body. 
Preparation of the draft special report. 
Adversarial procedure with the audited EU institution. 
3 The figures reflect the latest changes to the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013 and current prices (source: European Commission). 
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of the support measures "design studies" and "development of new infrastructures" in the Sixth Research Framework Programme (Special Report No 2/2010) - "Design studies" are intended to examine feasibility aspects in potential future research institutions and the "Development of new infrastructures" measure aims to support the development of new or the improvement of existing infrastructures. 
In the course of the audit, we examined whether the two measures effectively contributed to achieving the objectives of the Infrastructures strand of the Sixth Framework Programme for Research 2002-2006. • Impact assessments in the EU institutions: Do you help with decision-making? 
(Special report No 3/2010) - Impact assessments are one of the cornerstones of better regulation policy to improve and simplify EU legislative proposals. The audit analysed whether the Commission's impact assessments effectively supported decision-making in the EU institutions. The comments of this report are also relevant for other budgetary areas. 
• Allow the design and management of the Leonardo da Vinci mobility measures to deliver effective results? 
(Special report No 4/2010) - The mobility projects of the Leonardo da Vinci programme enable organisations active in the field of vocational education and training to arrange study visits to another European country. The actions are part of the integrated lifelong learning programme. The audit examined whether the measures are expected to meet their objectives, based on an assessment of design and management by the Commission and the national agencies. • Improving transport performance on the trans-European rail axes: Were EU investments in rail infrastructure effective? 
(Special report No 8/2010) (see box "Close to a performance audit"). • Will EU spending on structural measures in the area of household water supply be used optimally? 
(Special report No 9/2010) - The Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund allocated more than EUR 4 billion in the 2000-2006 programming period to support projects in the area of water supply infrastructure for households. We examined whether these funds were used effectively to address a number of needs such as increasing water availability, extending geographical coverage, improving the efficiency of water supply systems and improving the quality of services. 15 
16 CLOSE-UP OF AN PERFORMANCE AUDIT IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE ON THE TRANS-EUROPEAN RAILWAY AXES: WERE THE EU INVESTMENTS IN RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE EFFECTIVE? Special Report No 8/2010 The focus of the audit was on EU co-financing of railway infrastructure, examining whether an effective contribution was made to improving the performance of the trans-European axes. 
In view of the upcoming revision of the TEN-T guidelines for 2011, the Court's report was presented at a particularly favourable time. The Court recommended that the Commission • cooperate with the Member States and the iron railway authorities to identify the significant needs of trans-European corridors and, where necessary, develop knowledge and improve analytical bases; • to place greater emphasis on reducing practical constraints in international rail transport; • to promote and facilitate cooperation between Member States' bodies responsible for the railway sector so that developments can be planned together and common solutions to practical problems can be achieved. 
17 "The exam presented the team with some challenges," reports Gareth Roberts, the head of the auditor team. "We had to get acquainted very quickly with the realities of European rail transport and saw some successful examples of fantastic modern railways, but also some sections of the network that seemed to come from another age. 
We wanted to explore the extent to which the European rail system gradually evolved from a patchwork to a network. 
Up to 10 auditors were involved in the on-site work, as we had to cover many different languages. "I really enjoyed working on this exam." 
Since then, I have become something of a railroad fan!" says Andrej Minarovic, the examiner responsible for the work in Germany and Austria. 
At the end of the test, Fernando Pascual Gil was nicknamed "Maul Throw" within the team because he had spent some time in railway tunnels in the Alps and the Pyrenees. The audit team visited eight Member States and examined the impact on trans-European rail transport of 21 railway projects co-financed by the European Union under the trans-European transport networks and cohesion policy. 
For this purpose, the team members drove over and through the Alps with freight trains and visited large tunnel construction sites. 
These visits were a valuable addition to the findings that the auditors had gained from the review of reports, surveys of railway workers and the usual financial analyses. 
18 Conservation and management of natural resources With a budget of EUR 413 billion for the period 2007-2013, the EU has extensive powers and high political responsibility in the areas of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment. Three-quarters of the funds are spent on agricultural markets and direct payments to farmers. These payments are financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the "first pillar" of the common agricultural policy (CAP). 
More than one fifth of the expenditure comes from support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second 'pillar' of the CAP. 
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States. 
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Implementation of the Leader approach to rural development (Special Report No 5/2010) - Leader is a bottom-up approach based on local partnerships to support rural development. The audit examined whether the Leader concept was implemented in such a way as to generate additional benefits compared to the traditional top-down approach while minimising the risks to sound financial management. • Has the sugar market reform achieved its most important goals? 
(Special report No 6/2010) - In 2006, the EU carried out a profound reform of its sugar sector with the aim of ensuring the competitiveness of the EU sugar industry, stabilising markets and ensuring supplies and ensuring an adequate standard of living for the agricultural population. 
This resulted in the transition to greater regional participation and more flexible decision-making. The audit examined the effectiveness of the special measures following the reform. The EU as a global partner In addition to enlargement, the EU has three main objectives in the field of external relations: Fostering stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood ("The EU and its Neighbourhood Policy"); active support for sustainable development at international level ("The EU as a partner for sustainable development"); Promoting global policy "governance" and ensuring strategic and civil security ("the EU as a global player"). 
Expenditure is mainly managed directly by the Commission through its Headquarters or Delegations. 
Some support measures are also managed jointly with international organisations. • Commission management of the system of veterinary checks on meat imports following the 2004 reform of the hygiene rules (Special Report No 14/2010) - Veterinary controls on imports are an essential part of the EU's food safety policy and contribute to mitigating the risk of diseases and health crises potentially causing high costs to the detriment of the EU budget. The audit examined how the Commission monitors the EU system of veterinary checks at border inspection posts introduced in 2006 as part of the reform of the legislation on food hygiene. 
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Commission management of general budget support in ACP countries and Latin American and Asian countries (Special Report No 11/2010) - General budget support is generally considered by many donors, including the European Commission, as the most effective way to provide development assistance. 
The audit examined whether the Commission effectively managed its budget support programmes in Africa, the Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) and Latin America and Asia. 19 
20 • EU Development Assistance for Basic Education in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia (Special Report No 12/2010) - The Education for All initiative and the Millennium Development Goals have committed the EU and the international donor community to ensure primary education for all children, to eliminate gender inequalities and to improve education quality. The audit examined whether EU development assistance contributed to these objectives in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia and whether the Commission managed its interventions satisfactorily. 
Revenue The budget of the European Union is mainly financed from own resources and other revenue. Traditional own resources - mainly customs duties - account for around 12 % and VAT own resources represent a further 12 % of the total revenue. Most of the EU own resources (70 %) come from the own resources derived from gross national income, which, as a residual income, ensure that the budget is always balanced. • Has the new European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument been successfully launched and achieved in the Southern Caucasus (Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia)? 
(Special Report No 13/2010) - The European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) provides a framework for the planning and management of assistance to partner countries and territories. 
Since 2007, more than 311 million euros have been allocated to three countries in the Southern Caucasus. The audit examined whether the ENPI was successfully launched there and whether it achieved results. 
In 2010, the Court adopted a Special Report on Simplified Customs Procedures (No 1/2010) - In simplified customs procedures, authorised economic operators benefit from accelerated customs clearance and a simplified system for paying customs duties, which are part of the EU revenue. 
The audit assessed the effectiveness of the legal framework and the control approach of the Commission and the Member States. Opinions issued in 2010 also contribute to improving EU financial management through its opinions on proposals for new or amended legal acts with financial implications. 
Opinion No 6/2010 concerns an important proposal from the Commission for a revision of the Financial Regulation, which regulates how the EU budget is collected, issued and booked. 
Based on our comments in Opinion No 1/2010 (see above), the Court also points out that improving the quality of EU spending in certain areas of expenditure of the EU budget requires simpler and better legislation and other measures to support, promote and demand economic action by managers at the Commission, the other institutions and in the Member States. 
The ongoing contacts are maintained by liaison officers appointed by each SAI. 
The pilot project will be completed in 2011. 24 SAI Network of Candidate Countries and Potential Candidate Countries The Court actively participated in meetings of the Network of SAIs of Candidate Countries and Potential Candidate Countries (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia)4 which took place in parallel with the meetings of the Contact Committee. 
4 February 2011. Other forms of cooperation The Court continued its active participation and involvement in the improvement of international audit principles and procedures through its membership in European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, including INTOSAI5 and its European regional group EUROSAI. 
A secondment of the Court took place on XX. INCOSAI Congress held in South Africa from 22 to 27 November 2010. 
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of INTOSAI, he actively participates in the subcommittees on the different types of audits. In addition, the Court contributed to the subcommittee "Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews" and supported the increased activities in the field of the development of expertise of INTOSAI members. 
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on Accountability and Disaster Assistance Audit. 
An important objective of these working groups is to develop guidelines in the area of accountability for disaster relief, to identify and disseminate best practices, focusing on activities aimed at stakeholders (multilateral bodies, aid organisations, governments, private auditors). The interim report of the Working Group was submitted to the INTOSAI Congress in November 2010. 
In 2010, the Court also participated in the INTOSAI Task Force "Global Financial Crisis". As part of EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and the IT Working Group and participates in the EUROSAI Training Committee. 
The Court also participated in the VII. EUROSAI Congress working group set up in 2008 to develop a guide on best practices for achieving quality within an SAI. In addition, the Court is one of the auditors of EUROSAI. 25 
26 OUR MANAGEMENT OF THE STRATEGY FOR 20092012 In recent years, following a self-assessment and a peer review process (2008), the Court has initiated an internal reform process on the framework conditions of its audit management. 
A strategy for the period 2009-20126 was then developed to address the weaknesses identified. The overarching objectives for the period are: maximising the overall impact of the tests; O Improve efficiency by making the best use of resources. 
Many of the priority actions foreseen in the strategy have already been completed. The other measures will be implemented in 2011 and 2012. The most important achievements achieved in 2010 are: O the achievement of the objective of providing 12 to 15 performance audit reports per year; O the development of new products - a document on risks and challenges for the new Commission (opinion No 1/2010) and the establishment of a new system for reporting on the follow-up of the Court's recommendations from 2012 onwards; O the revision of the Court's Rules of Procedure to streamline decision-making procedures through the establishment of chambers and to strengthen the governance structure; O the preparation of an overview of all performance indicators; O the further development of the approach to the annual audit of the implementation of the EU budget (declaration of reliability) based on recommendations from an internal panel of experts assisted by external experts; O the redeployment of a number of posts from support services in favour of audit services. 
6 The audit strategy 2009-2012 is available on the Court's website. 
27 INTRODUCTION OF CHAIRS ON THE NEW CHRISTMAS REGULATION One of the main recommendations stemming from the Court's reform process was to make use of the possibility provided for in Article 287(4) of the Treaty to adopt certain categories of reports and opinions of chambers while maintaining the principle of collegiality. 
After approval by the Council of the necessary amendments to the Court's Rules of Procedure, chambers were set up on 1 June 2010. These are composed of members of the Court and adopt special reports, special annual reports and opinions on draft legal acts. Previously, all these reports and opinions were adopted by the whole College, and this remains the case in the annual reports on the EU budget and on the EDFs. 
Although most of the Court's reports are now accepted by the Chambers, the Chambers have the possibility to transfer their documents to the Court for adoption. 
All members may attend meetings of chambers to which they are not members without voting rights. 
The Members of the Court 
Since 2008, the Court has gradually developed a set of key performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform management of the progress made in the implementation of the 2009-2012 targets; O to support the decision-making process; O to provide performance-related information to the Court's addressees. 
As an overview of all indicators is available for the first time in 2010, this year will serve as the reference year for future progress. The Court is very pleased with the results achieved in 2010 in its key performance indicators, in particular on the quality and impact of its work. 
More importantly, however, is the fact that the indicators clearly identify the areas in which progress is needed and which problems need to be clarified in order to achieve a future increase in performance. 
29 Quality and impact of the Court's work The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees, expert reviews and follow-up of its recommendations. 
By means of a survey, the Court asked the main addressees of our reports (European Parliament and Committee on Budgets' Committee on Budgets) and the main audited bodies (mainly staff of the European Commission) to assess the quality and impact of the annual reports published in 2009 (on the general budget and on the EDF) and special reports. 
The assessment should be based on a five-stage scale (1 - very poor, 2 - poor, 3 - appropriate, 4 - good, 5 - very good). 
2010 Target Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by a main addressee 4.2 = 4 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the audited body The result shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports are on average for 'good'. 
The Court strives to maintain or improve this level of performance. 
Two external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports published in 2009 and 2010. The auditors assessed eight special reports and the annual report on the general budget and the EDF for both years and assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "quality" (4). 
2010 Target 3.0 = 3 3.7 = 4 reviews of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by external experts The result shows that the auditors consider the quality of the Court's reports to be "satisfactory". 
The reviews have provided valuable insights and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports. 
30 Follow-up of recommendations The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations to help improve financial management. In order to make changes, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the audited bodies and subsequently implemented. The indicator is based on the recommendations in the 2009 published, i.e. the last available, annual and special reports. 
2010 Target 90 % = 90 % percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audit body, the Court strives to maintain or even improve this high level of acceptance in its recommendations. 
In 2010, the Court set up a system to monitor the implementation of the recommendations by the audited bodies. 
In the coming years, this system will serve as a basis for a further indicator of the extent to which recommendations are implemented in practice and lead to improvements. 
It will also provide the Court with valuable insights to improve the quality of its recommendations and thus increase their acceptance by the audited bodies. 
The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources on the basis of the extent to which it is able to provide reports and audit findings on time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff. Punctuality of the reports The Court strives to adopt all planned reports within the specified deadlines. 
For the publication of the annual reports and the specific annual reports, deadlines laid down in legislation must be observed. 
For special reports for which there is no publication date set out in legislation, the planned date of adoption shall be deemed to be the date of adoption. 
2010 Target number of reports accepted compared to the number of planned reports 90 % 100 % share of reports adopted on time 80 % 100 % All in particular, the Court failed to meet the target in 2010. 
The Court adopted fewer reports in 2010 than planned; the performance level is comparable to the previous year (91 % in 2009). Moreover, while the share of reports adopted on time increased in 2010 (80 % from 67 % in 2009), there is still a need for further improvement. 
While all annual reports and all special annual reports were adopted and published on schedule, this was only the case for three special reports. 
In the case of six special reports, the adoption was delayed until 2011. 
The Court strives to achieve the targets by launching further measures to improve the governance of the procedures of special reports by the end of 2012. 
2010 Target percentage of audit notifications prepared on time 54 % 80 % by 2012 The performance achieved in 2010 is not yet at the required level, but significant progress has been made in the past two years towards achieving the target (43 % in 2009 and 27 % in 2008). 
The Court will continue its efforts to achieve the target. External Financial Management Assessment The Court strives to obtain from its independent auditor a full audit opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources, as well as discharge from the European Parliament following a favourable Council recommendation. 
2010 Target Yes Yes Unrestricted opinion of the independent auditor and discharge 
In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide the auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training. 
2010 Target Average number of training days per person 5.7 days = 5 days 33 In 2010, the required level of performance was achieved, an improvement compared to 2009 (average of 4 days). 
In an internal survey on employee satisfaction conducted in 2009, 86 % of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their work, with a total staff satisfaction level of 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4. Any value above 2.5 indicates overall satisfaction. The Court strives to maintain or improve this result if a similar survey is conducted at the end of 2012. 
34 Audit support The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its specialised services. These services shall provide the logistical, technical and/or technical know-how which enables the Court to recruit, retain and motivate its staff and to develop its professional skills; O to disseminate the results of the examination in all official languages of the EU; O to make the best use of information technologies; O to manage its budget and maintain its infrastructure; O Examination missions to all countries where EU funds are spent. 
The most important asset of the farm is its staff. At 31. In December 2010, the Court's staff was 889 (officials and temporary staff but excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees). 
Of these, 557 are in examination chambers (including 123 staff in Members' cabinets), 151 in the Translation Directorate, 157 in administrative support services and 24 in the services of the President. With a view to achieving the best possible use of resources, all activities once again explored and implemented ways of improving efficiency by simplifying procedures and streamlining services. 
Where possible, efficiencies outside the audit area were transferred to the audit service, increasing the number of posts used for audit tasks by 6 %. This process will continue in 2011. 
Breakdown of the Court's posts at 31. December 2008 2009 2010 Examination Chambers 501 525 557 Translation 163 163 151 Support 173 171 157 Services of the President 20 21 24 Total 857 880 889 
35 Men Women From the graphs below, the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility is at 31. December 2010 can be seen. Like the other EU institutions, the Court operates an equal opportunities policy within the framework of its human resources policy and recruitment. 
20 of the 67 directors and heads of unit (30 %) are women, representing a steady increase compared to previous years. 
However, most of them are active in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative services. 
2001 2010 54 % 46 % 50 % 50 % 
36 assistants - secretaries (function group AST) auditors - Administrative Boards (function group AD) Men 2009 2010 2009 2010 Age profile 2009 2010 Men Women 27 % 73 % 63 % 37 % 31 % Directors and Heads of Unit 69 % 62 % 38 % Men Women The proportion of women at AD level continues to rise due to recruitment. 
After the last recruitment wave, 45 % of staff in grades AD5 to AD8 are women. 
74 % 26 % 70 % 30 % The age profile of the 31st In December 2010, 62 % of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger. Ages 20-24 0 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 24 of the 67 directors and heads of unit are 55 years old or older. 
4 % 18 % 20 % 20 % 15 % 12 % 7 % 4 % 
37 Professional training The profession of examiner requires continuous training in order to be able to keep up with new developments and acquire new skills. 
Efforts were made in 2010 to implement the staff redeployment plan adopted by the Secretary-General to move posts and staff from the translation service to the audit service in 2011. On the basis of the guidance plan for training for the years 2008-2011 and the training pathways adopted in 2009, the Professional Training Unit made improvements to the training activities in 2010 and developed new training courses in line with the priorities adopted by the Court. 
In addition, the Court's Directorate for Translation provided valuable linguistic support to auditors during missions as well as in the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports. 
In addition, the Directorate for Translation supported INTOSAI working groups and covered other specific needs related to the Court's audit work. 
Work on the Artemis project to improve the functions of this important IT application for translators continued in 2010. In addition, the Court's Directorate for Translation was actively involved in inter-institutional and international specialised bodies. 
Information technology (IT) plays a key role in the implementation of the overall objectives of the Court's strategy for the period 2009-2012. The following developments were recorded in 2010: • Establishment of a cooperation platform in line with the Strategic IT Plan 2010-2012 to support the exchange of knowledge, particularly in the area of audit; • Continue efforts to optimise and simplify internal processes through electronic workflows to increase efficiency and effectiveness; Management and infrastructure is the responsibility of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services to provide the Court's auditors with adequate support services efficiently, effectively and on time, and to ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are in place to support all the Court's activities. 
In 2010, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to free up resources to relocate to the Audit Service. • Use of smart phones and laptop com-puters to enable the efficient execution of audit work at any location and at any time, including as part of the Court's contingency plan. 
Following an agreement with the budgetary authority at the end of 2008 on the financing of the K3 building, a focus in 2010 was the preparation of tenders for construction and ancillary services and their publication by the project manager. 
Much of the contracts for this project were awarded during the year. The time and budget of the construction project is respected. Completion is due at the end of 2012. 
During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and to other beneficiaries of EU funds as well as to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations. 
Audit missions IN YEAR 2010 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 The visits usually apply to central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as the respective final recipients. 
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the visited Member State, which provide useful logistical and practical support. 
52 38 32 30 26 23 15141312111010 9 7 7 6555543332122221111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
40 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The European Court of Auditors shall be financed from the general budget of the European Union. Our budget accounts for around 0.1 % of the EU's total expenditure and less than 2 % of total administrative expenditure. 
Implementation of the 2010 budget Title 1: Members and staff of the institution Final commitments HAUSHALTSJAHR 2010 Use of appropriations in %(commitments/dedicated appropriations) Payments (in EUR 1 000) 10 - Members of the institution 13 364 12 980 98 % 12 687 12 - Officials and temporary agents 94 245 87 459 93 % 87 104 14 - Other staff and external services 4 604 3 590 78 % 3 567 162 - missions 3 450 3 231 94 % 2 775 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 2 861 1 887 66 % 1 435 Title 1 total 118 524 109 147 92 % 107 568 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditures 20 - Building 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 18 561 18 390 99 % 7 656 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 6 365 6 365 100 % 4 035 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and ancillary costs 834 771 92 % 701 23 - Current material expenditure for operations 430 406 94 % 274 858 847 99 % 642 2 373 2 032 86 % 797 Title 2 29 421 28 811 98 % 14 105 Court of Auditors 147 945 137 958 93 % 121 673 
41 In 2010, the implementation rate of the total budget available was 93 %. 
42 Budget 2011 The 2011 budget decreased by 2.44 % compared to 2010, mainly due to a decrease in appropriations for the new farm building (K3). Construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of EUR 79 million, to be financed in five consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 3 million in 2012 and 2013. 
Budget 2011 2010 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 930 13 364 (EUR 1 000) 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 95 957 3 825 3 652 2 485 6 500 816 422 893 2 240 25 482 144 331 94 246 4 603 3 450 2 861 6 365 877 404 868 2 389 29 421 147 945 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure Title 1 total 118 849 118 524 20 - Building 14 611 18 518 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and related costs 23 - Current operating expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Total Title 2 
Audit AND Accountability Internal Audit The Court's Internal Audit Service is designed to assist the Court in achieving its objectives through a systematic, methodological assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures. In addition, on the basis of assessments of the effectiveness of the Court's internal control systems, the Internal Audit Service makes proposals to improve the Court's efficiency. 
In 2010, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused its work on following up its recommendations from previous years, reviewing the reform of the Court's ex ante audits system, auditing the implementation of the Court's SOS II/SAP system and the conformity of the video surveillance system with data protection rules and requirements. 
In 2009, the Court's Internal Audit Service was audited and certified in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors. 
The audit opinion of the auditor - PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL - on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 was published in October 20107. 
C 279 of 15.10.2010. 
44 AUDIT OPINIONS OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS: "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23. December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the above-mentioned Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors.' In our work steps described in this report, we have not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria (a) the resources allocated to the Court were not used for the intended purposes and (b) the control procedures put in place do not provide the requisite assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 
The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, o that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable assurance that • the funds allocated for the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that • the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of allegations of fraud or suspicion of fraud. This sufficient assurance is based on the undersigned's assessment and the information available to him, such as the results of the ex post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years. The undersigned confirms that he is not aware of any unreported circumstance which could harm the interests of the institution. 
Audit Chambers I to IV cover various revenue and expenditure areas, while the fifth, the CEAD Chamber, is responsible for horizontal matters. The chambers are supported by audit directorates. 
Each member is responsible for specific tasks, primarily in the area of audit. Members shall submit audit proposals and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible to the respective Chamber and to the Court. 
Members will be assisted by their cabinet staff and the audit team. 
ISSN 1684-0666 2011 DE ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 
Europe Direct is designed to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Fee-free phone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Some mobile operators do not grant access to 00 800 numbers or charge a fee. 
Many more information about the European Union is available via Internet, Server Europa (http://europa.eu). 
Cataloging data is located at the end of the publication. 
Luxembourg: Office for Publications of the European Union, 2012 ISBN 978-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693 (c) European Union, 2012 reprinted with reference. 
Printed in Belgium CONTROL ON ELEMENTAR CHLORFREI BLUE PAPER (ECF) 
European Court of Auditors' Annual Action Report 2011 
The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing EU finances under the Treaty. 
As an EU external auditor, he contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens. 
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, characterised by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism and the quality and impact of its work, providing valuable support to its audience in order to improve EU financial management. 
Independence, INTEGRITITY AND UNPARTMENT PROFESSIONALITY PROFESSIONALITY EXCELLENT AND EFFICIENCE Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and staff. 
Impartial audit, which takes into account the positions of the entities concerned, but rejects any form of influence by instructions or pressure from the outside. 
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work. 
Contribute to the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level. 
Producing relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the concerns of its audience and containing important and forward-looking statements. 
To contribute to an effective improvement of EU management and to contribute to strengthening accountability for the management of EU funds. 
Fostering team spirit through effective communication. 
Increase efficiency in all aspects of his work. 
3 INSTITUTIONS page 4 OF THE PRESIDENT 7 2011 ON A BLICK 9 OUR ACTIVITIES 9 Audit reports and opinions 23 Cooperation with other SAIs 28 Other activities 31 OUR MANAGEMENT 31 Implementation of the Strategy for 2009-2012 33 Measurement data on the Court's performance in 2011 37 Support to audit activities 43 Financial information 46 Audit and accountability 
4 OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to reading the 2011 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors. 
In 2011, the economic and financial crisis led to significant developments in the EU's economic governance, with a significant impact on the future use of public finances. 
Against this background, in May, the Court published a position paper highlighting the impact of the measures taken to address the financial and economic crisis on accountability, transparency and public financial control. 
Later in the year, the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States and the European Court of Auditors called on EU decision-makers to ensure that the principles of accountability, transparency and public financial control are properly respected whenever public funds are used. 
In particular, the SAIs of the euro area called for adequate arrangements for public external financial control of the European Sta-bility Mechanism. 
This resulted in a decision setting up an audit committee for the Stability Mechanism, which will include a member proposed by the Court. 
Also in 2011, the results of our key performance indicators are encouraging, in particular with regard to the follow-up of the recommendations accepted by our audited bodies and the assessment of our audit work by addressees and external experts. 
We were able to increase our output in terms of the number of audit reports and opinions adopted in 2011; nevertheless, we failed to achieve the ambitious goals we set ourselves on the punctuality of reporting. 
Our annual reports now contained more detailed information and a new chapter on performance aspects. We also produced 42 special annual reports and 16 special reports in addition to seven opinions and a position paper. 
The scope of our institution's audit powers with regard to the Union's revenue and expenditure, in particular as regards VAT own resources in the Member States, was confirmed by the European Court of Justice in November 2011. 
As of 2012, we will be able to report on the extent to which our recommendations will be followed in practice. 
In addition, we will subject our methods of performance audit to a peer-review process with the aim of further improving the process of producing our special reports. 
In 2011, we published ethical guidelines to further strengthen the Court's audit management framework and revised the Court's audit strategies and audit guidelines to streamline the audit process and reporting process. 
In addition, we will launch a new survey on employee satisfaction in 2012. 
Looking ahead, we will complete the preparation of our strategy for the period 2013-2017 in 2012. 
Some of the most important challenges have already been identified: The EU's regulatory framework will continue to evolve and we must continue to push for proper compliance with the principles of accountability, transparency and public financial control. 
The need for high quality and timely assurance of the use of EU funding is constantly increasing and we need to develop our audits and reports accordingly. 
As the EU is subject to a continuous process of change, we will also endeavour to make the best use of our audit experience to help policy makers improve financial management. 
Strengthening the EU's financial accountability is an objective we share with other actors and we will try to pool our efforts by entering into strategic partnerships. 
Finally, like the other EU institutions and bodies, we need to be prepared to do more with less to improve the efficiency of our organisation. 
Addressing these challenges will depend to a decisive extent on the efforts of all our staff. 
The development of the excellence of our employees - a core value of our organ - is and remains an important concern for us. 
With regard to the professionalism, commitment and the results achieved by our employees in the past, I am confident that the Court will be able to achieve these future goals as well. 
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5 
7 2011 ON A BLICK OUR DECISION OF WORKING WORKING AND INDUSTRIAL COMMUNICATIONS AND ENTERPRISEMENTS OF THE ENTERPRISEMENT AND ENVIRONMENT IN THE FY2010 AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES AND THE COMMISSION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CONTROL POLICY OF THE COUNCIL AND THE COUNCIL on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis in relation to the results of the current financial and economic crisis in relation to public accountability and the public financial control within the framework of the auditing of the Court's work as a follow-up to the audit of the Court's work in the auditing of the Court's work in 2008 and the annual reports on the construction of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010 with more detailed information o 42 specific annual reports on the various EU agencies, decentralised agencies and agencies for the financial year 2010 o 16 special reports on specific budgetary areas or management issues o 7 opinions with contributions to budgetary reform, such as the modernisation of public procurement policies and the legislative proposal of the Commission with rules on cohesion expenditure after 2013 o Position paper on the consequences of the current financial and economic crisis for public accountability and the implementation of public financial control within the framework of the Court of Justice, including the follow-up of the audit of the Court's work, including the implementation of the audit of the EU budget and the implementation of the audit of the EU budget and the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010, with more detailed information o 42 specific annual reports on the various agencies, decentralised bodies and agencies of the EU for the financial year 2010 o 16 special reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues o 7 opinions with contributions to the budgetary reform, such as the modernisation of public procurement policies and the legislative proposal of the Commission with rules on cohesion expenditure after 2013 o Position paper on the consequences of the current financial and economic crisis for public accountability and the public financial control within the Court's framework, including the follow-up of the audit of the Court's work and the implementation of the audit work of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the general budget and the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010 with more detailed information o 42 specific annual reports on the different agencies, decentralised agencies and agencies for the financial year 2010 o 16 special reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues o 7 opinions with contributions to the current financial and economic crisis for public accountability and the legislative proposal of the Commission with rules on cohesion expenditure after 2013 o Position paper on the consequences of the current financial and economic crisis for public accountability and the implementation of the public financial control framework within the EU. 
Number of reports and opinions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 Special Annual Reports on EU Agencies and Decentralised Bodies 29 29 37 40 42 Special Reports 9 12 18 14 16 Opinions and other statements 9 5 1 6 8 The full version of the individual reports and opinions is available on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in 22 official EU languages. 
This led to the publication of the 2010 Annual Report, including the Seventeenth Statement of Assurance (DAS), on 10 November 2011. 
The 2010 annual report had some changes in order to improve clarity and information content. 
This includes the redesign of the topics (and the corresponding annual chapters) among which the Court grouped expenditure, the publication of estimated error rates by policy area (see below), increased attention to recommendations to improve financial management and a new chapter on performance aspects. 
For the first time, we published estimated error rates for both the EU budget as a whole and for individual thematic groups. 
The error rates are determined by extrapolating the quantifiable errors detected in the audited samples of transactions. 
The Court compares the estimated error rate with a materiality threshold of 2 % to determine whether the error is material, taking into account further evidence. 
Error rates are not a measure of fraud, but reflect the Court's estimate of the breach of the rules governing expenditure. 
This includes breaches of public procurement rules, ineligible or incorrectly calculated costs for projects co-financed by the EU, or excessive land data supplied by farmers. 
The key statements of the 2010 Annual Report were as follows: O The annual accounts for the financial year 2010 represent the financial position of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year as a whole. 
On the other hand, the payments underlying these accounts are materially affected by errors; the estimated level of error for the EU budget as a whole is 3.7 %. 
The control systems were partially effective with a view to ensuring the regularity of payments as a whole. O The Court's estimated error rate for cohesion, energy and transport (the most error-prone expenditure area in the EU) was 7.7 % higher than in 2009. O In the rest of the EU expenditure areas, the error rate remained relatively stable. 
For agriculture and natural resources, the estimated error rate was 2.3 %, above the materiality threshold. 
However, direct payments to farmers had no material error. o The share of advances - pre-financing - within the EU budget has increased significantly. 
The accounting rules and supervisory arrangements have not been adapted accordingly. o When planning EU spending programmes, the Commission and the Member States should pay greater attention to setting SMART objectives, i.e. concrete, measurable, achievable, appropriate and dated targets, but also to identify and mitigate risks that may arise during implementation. 
In its Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2010 (published on 10 November 2011), the Court concluded that the annual accounts of the EDFs for 2010 represent the financial position of the EDFs and the results of their operations and cash flows in all material respects in accordance with the Financial Regulation. 
The revenue of the EDFs is not affected by material errors. 
The EDF commitments were legal and regular, regardless of the non-quantifiable errors detected in the field of procurement. 
However, EDF payments for projects were materially affected by errors; the estimated error rate is 3.4 %. 
The errors found related to non-compliance with eligibility conditions. 
The Court assessed that the control systems established in the EDF only partially guarantee the regularity of payments as a whole. 
In December 2011, the Court published special annual reports on the financial year 2010 for all 42 agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. joint undertakings) and other EU agencies (in particular the efficiency of the management of the European Central Bank). 
The Court delivered an unrestricted opinion on all audited bodies, with the exception of the European GNSS Agency because certain assets were not included in the accounts, and the ENIAC Joint Undertaking because the financial statements were not included in the accounts. 
The EU agencies and decentralised bodies have been set up by the EU legislator to carry out specific tasks. 
Each agency shall have a mandate, a management board, a director, staff and a budget. 
The agencies operate in many areas, such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and travel. 
11 President Caldeira at the presentation of the 2010 Annual Report at the plenary session of the European Parliament 
In addition to its annual reports, the Court publishes special reports during the year containing the results of the performance and compliance audits carried out by the Court on specific budgetary areas or management topics of its choice. 
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is keen to achieve maximum impact and to make the best use of its resources. 
In the selection of topics, the Court takes into account the following factors: O the risks to profitability or compliance with legal standards in the relevant revenue or expenditure area; O the amount of the respective revenue or expenditure; O the time elapsed since any previous examination; pending developments within the relevant legal framework; O the political and public interest. 
In 2011, the Court adopted 16 special reports on a number of topics, an increase compared to the 14 special reports adopted in 2010. 
These special reports are presented in a concise form below under the corresponding headings of the financial framework - the multiannual budget of the EU. 
The special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in full length or available through the EU Bookshop. 
13 Sustainable growth focuses on growth and jobs and covers two topics: Competitiveness includes the promotion of research and technological development, the networking of Europe, education and training, the promotion of competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social policy agenda and the dismantling of nuclear installations. 
EU spending on growth and jobs in the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2 % of the total budget, of which almost two thirds are R & D. Cohesion for growth and jobs mainly concerns cohesion policy, which is implemented in the form of funds dedicated to specific areas of activity - European Social Fund, Cohesion Fund and European Regional Development Fund. 
The funds will be spent by the Commission and the Member States through shared management. 
The EU budget for cohesion for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 348.4 billion (35.7 % of the total EU budget). 
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: O Effectiveness of the SME Guarantee Facility (Special Report No 4/2011) from the point of view of its design and planning, the management of the related operations and the achievement of objectives. 
The SME Guarantee Facility (SMEG Facility) is a financial instrument managed by the European Investment Fund on behalf of the European Commission. This Facility provides financial intermediaries with guarantees or counter-guarantees for loans granted by financial institutions to SMEs, thereby increasing the availability of debt financing. o Effectiveness of projects in the field of tourism co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (EFERE) (Special Report No 6/2011) from the perspective of expected results, sustainability, European added value and project design. 
The audit was based on a broad survey of projects in new Member States and 26 regions. 
During the period 2000-2006, EU funding of EUR 4.6 billion from the ERDF was allocated to in-kind investments in tourism projects. Projects are selected and managed by managing authorities in the Member States. 
Effectiveness of eGovernment projects supported by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report No 9/2011) with a focus on the 2000-2006 programming period and the four Member States Spain, France, Italy and Poland. 
The audit assessed whether the co-financed projects were selected on the basis of the identified needs, whether they were implemented as planned and whether they were appropriate and sustainable. 
This funding of EUR 6.7 billion from the ERDF for the promotion of the information society was intended to develop new secure technologies, develop infrastructures and connect regions via broadband. o Effective management of State aid control by the Commission (Special Report No 15/2011). 
The audit examined whether the procedures and systems ensure that the Commission handles all relevant cases of aid, that cases are handled effectively and within the deadlines foreseen, and that it is possible for the Commission to monitor the impact of its State aid control. 
It is the Commission's task to ensure that State aid granted by Member States is compatible with the internal market of the European Union. 
Member States must first notify aid measures to the Commission and obtain the approval of the Commission before granting State aid. o Implementation of EU financial support for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia (Special Report No 16/2011) to assess whether the measures of the nuclear decommissioning programmes have been designed to meet the needs of the nuclear decommissioning programmes, whether they have been implemented as planned, and whether the accountability and management structures were designed in such a way as to ensure effective use of EU funds. 
Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia committed to the early shutdown and subsequent decommissioning of eight non-renewable nuclear reactors as part of their EU accession negotiations. 
In view of the exceptional burden, the EU provided EUR 2.9 billion in grants for the three country programmes in 1999-2013. 
The EU has a high political responsibility in the areas of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment. 
The planned budget for 2007-2013 amounts to 413,1 billion euro, i.e. 42.3 % of the total budget. 
Three quarters of the expenditure concerns direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) - the "first pillar" of the common agricultural policy (CAP). 
More than one-fifth of the expenditure comes from EU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second pillar of the CAP. 
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States. 
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: O Single payment scheme under the common agricultural policy (Special Report No 5/2011) - See box: How good are the design and management of the subsidised agri-environmental measures? (Special report No 7/2011). 
This report assesses whether agri-environmental policy is designed and accompanied in such a way as to generate tangible environmental benefits, whether farmers are adequately supported by appropriate guidance and correctly determined aid amounts, and whether specific environmental needs are taken into account in the management of agri-environmental policy. 
The objective of agri-environmental policy is to meet the growing societal demand for environmental services by encouraging farmers to introduce or maintain production practices that are compatible with the protection and improvement of the environment. 
This area is subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States. o Recovery of undue payments under the Common Agricultural Policy (Special Report No 8/2011) to assess the effectiveness of the systems for recovering identified claims established and operated by Member States. 
This audit examined whether Member States properly record and process claims, whether Member States' actions to recover identified undue payments have been successful, whether Member States act appropriately in the derecognition of irrecoverable receivables, and whether the monitoring and supervision of the Commission is effective. 
The European Union spends around EUR 55 billion annually on agriculture and rural development. Part of the funds will be wrongly paid due to irregular or incorrect applications. 15 
16 o Effectiveness of the School Milk and School Fruit Programmes (Special Report No 10/2011) to assess whether EU aid has a direct impact on beneficiaries' consumption and whether the programmes are capable of delivering the intended educational impact and impacting future eating habits. 
These EU programmes aim to encourage children to eat healthily through the consumption of dairy products and fruits and vegetables; another objective is to contribute to improving the market conditions for these products. 
The EU is currently providing an annual budget of EUR 180 million for these two programmes. o Enable the design and management of the geographical indication scheme to be effective? (Special report No 11/2011). 
This audit assessed the reliability of the control system, the attractiveness of the scheme for producers and its awareness among consumers. 
The objective of the EU Geographical Indications Scheme is to protect the names of products where there is a link between their characteristics and the geographical area from which they originate. 
The scheme offers economic opportunities for farmers and food producers and can have a positive impact on the rural economy in the EU regions. o Effectiveness of the EU's measures to adapt the fishing capacity of the fishing fleets to existing fishing opportunities (Special Report No 12/2011). 
The audit examined whether there was a clear framework for the reduction of fleet capacity and whether the specific measures were clearly defined and implemented. 
The audit took place at the Commission and in Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Poland, Portugal and the United Kingdom. 
The objective of the EU Common Fisheries Policy is to promote sustainable fisheries by establishing a balance between fish stocks and the fishing fleet in order to avoid overfishing of stocks. 
For many years, the overcapacity of the fishing fleet has been a problem. It threatens both the sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fisheries sector. 
The European Fisheries Fund will provide EUR 4.3 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period. 
17 OPINION OF ECONOMIC REPORT NO 5/2011 This performance audit concerned the sound financial management of payments under the single payment scheme currently being applied in 17 of the 27 EU Member States. 
Expenditure related to this scheme amounted to around EUR 28.8 billion in 2009. 
The introduction of the single payment scheme was a key element of the 2003 reform of the EU's common agricultural policy. 
The aim of this scheme was to encourage farmers to respond better to market demand and to provide them with income support. 
As part of the reform, the link between support and production was dissolved ("decoupling"). 
Instead, farmers must have eligible agricultural land and 'payment entitlements'. 
From 2006, the Court carried out a series of audits of the procedures established by the Commission and in the Member States to ensure the accuracy of payment entitlements and the accuracy of payments to farmers. 
These tests covered all 17 Member States applying the scheme. The results of these audits were included in the 2006 and 2007 annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget. 
Based on these results, the Court decided to carry out a performance audit focusing on: O beneficiaries of the scheme, access to single payments and the definition of eligible areas; O the contribution of the scheme to the objectives of income support for farmers and the preservation of agricultural land in good agricultural and environmental condition; O the specific consequences of the application of the different models for implementing the scheme. 
Audit visits took place in 2009 and 2010 with the Commission, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. 
The conclusion of the resulting Special Report No 5/2011 was that the single payment scheme contributed to the achievement of the two main objectives of the common agricultural policy: Farmers were encouraged to respond better to market demand and the income of the agricultural sector as a whole was supported. 
In general, however, several questionable characteristics have emerged in the implementation of the scheme, which concern the definition of the beneficiaries of that policy, the nature of the eligible parcels and activities, the impact of the scheme on the environment, the distribution of aid between Member States and within the Member States and the specific impact of the historical and regional model. 
18 In the report, the Court recommends that it is better for the single payment to flow in active farmers and to exclude non-agricultural parcels and activities that do not contribute to increasing agricultural productivity or actively maintaining the ecological value of the land. 
In addition, the Court recommends that the level of single payments should take into account the costs of environmental and other external effects and that a more balanced distribution of aid among farmers is sought. 
The calculation of single payments should be based on the current management conditions. 
The exam was carried out by a multidisciplinary team of eight chamber I examiners. The audit work provided not only further information on the concept of decoupled single payment, but also with regard to the impact of the conversion process from the previous coupled support scheme on the current scheme. 
According to team leader Sven Kölling, the examination of the various existing models and variants for implementing the scheme together with the coexistence of national and regional administrative strategies and their impact on the profitability and effectiveness of the premium was a particular challenge. 
Audit visits to final beneficiaries and on-the-spot checks at establishments proved essential to obtain the audit evidence supporting the findings and conclusions. 
Many of the Court's recommendations have been reflected in the Commission's proposals on the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy post-2013 (at the time of preparation of this report in the discussion) including the definition of an 'active farmer' and of minimum activities on certain areas, the distribution of premium payments among beneficiaries, the reduction of the large number of implementation models for the single payment scheme and the better consideration of environmental externalities in the calculation of single payment payments. 
Team of auditors from left to right: (first row) Heike Walz, Court Member Michel Cretin, Aurelia Petliza, (second row) Pietro Puricella, Dirk Pauwels, Sven Kölling, Sylvain Lehnhard 
The EU AS GLOBALER PARTNER 19 The EU's external relations activities focus on: Enlargement, stability, security and prosperity in their neighbourhood, active support for sustainable development at international level, promoting global policy "governance" and ensuring strategic and civil security. 
The EU has earmarked EUR 55.9 billion for the period 2007-2013, i.e. 5.7 % of its total planned expenditure, for these objectives. 
Expenditure is mainly managed directly by the Commission through its Headquarters or Delegations. 
Some support measures are also managed jointly with international organisations. 
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: O Has the deconcentration of the management of external aid from the Commission's central services to their delegations led to a better provision of assistance? 
(Special report No 1/2011). 
The purpose of the audit was to examine the administrative modalities and their impact on faster delivery and better quality of assistance and the establishment of stable financial procedures. 
The EU is the world's largest donor of development aid, with a large share of this assistance (EUR 8.4 billion in 2009) managed by the Commission under its management system. From 2002 onwards, this system has delegated powers to the Commission's external offices in partner countries. o Economicity and effectiveness of EU contributions made available through United Nations organisations in conflict-affected countries (Special Report No 3/2011) focusing on projects in Afghanistan, Iraq and Sudan for the period 2006-2008. 
EuropeAid provided around EUR 4 billion over the period 2005-2009 through UN agencies. 
The EU can provide funds as the sole donor or with other donors, as contributions to trust funds, without providing funds for specific activities or objectives, or as a contribution to the general budget of a UN organisation. o Effective EU assistance in improving Croatia's capacity to manage post-accession funding (Special Report No 14/2011) to assess the Commission's planning of the aid and whether the targeted results of EU-funded projects have been achieved. 
The aim of EU pre-accession assistance is to assist candidate countries in developing their administrative capacity in order to prepare them for the management of the larger EU aid to which they will be entitled as Member States. 
EU pre-accession assistance to Croatia has been EUR 150 million annually since 2007. 
The budget of the European Union is mainly financed from own resources and other revenue. 
Traditional own resources - mainly customs duties - account for around 12 % and VAT own resources represent a further 12 % of the total revenue. 
Most of the EU own resources (70 %) come from the own resources derived from gross national income, which ensures that the budget is always balanced. 
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: O Administration of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) (Special Report No 2/2011) on the evaluation of the measures taken to implement the recommendations of the Court's previous Special Report No 1/2005 on this issue. 
The starting point of the investigation was whether OLAF has now shifted the focus of its activities to its investigative function and is more efficient in its investigations, how it demonstrates the effectiveness of its investigative work and whether the role of the Supervisory Committee has been clarified. 
OLAF's mission is to combat fraud and other illegal activities affecting the EU budget. 
The Office is affiliated with the Commission, but has full independence in carrying out its investigations and employs around 500 staff. Its annual expenditure amounts to around 50 million euros. 
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: O Can VAT evasion be prevented and detected by the control of customs procedure 42? (Special report No 13/2011). In the course of this audit, we examined whether there is a sound legal framework to combat VAT evasion under customs procedure 42. 
Audits were carried out in Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Austria, Slovenia and Sweden. 
Customs procedure 42 is a mechanism used by an EU importer to obtain VAT exemption. 
The procedure applies when goods imported from outside the EU to one Member State are transported to another Member State. 
In such cases, VAT is due in the Member State of destination. 
The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management through its opinions on proposals for new or amended legal acts with financial implications. 
These opinions are delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and used by the legislators - European Parliament and Council - in their work. 
The Court can also issue position papers on other issues on its own initiative. 
In 2011, the Court adopted seven opinions: O 1/2011: Proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the tenth European Development Fund as regards the European External Action Service o 2/2011: Financial Regulation of the Clean Sky O 3/2011 Joint Undertaking: Proposal to amend the Financial Regulation of the European Schools o 4/2011: Commission Green Paper on Modernising European Public Procurement Policy o 5/2011: Proposal for a Council Regulation (Euratom) laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the Framework Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013) o 6/2011: Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 Opinion 7/2011 concerned proposals for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down common provisions on cohesion expenditure, which could account for up to 45 % of the total EU expenditure for the period 2014-2020. 
Therefore, the contribution from the EU budget to the Europe 2020 targets depends to a large extent on the economical, efficient and effective use of these funds. 
This will also affect the credibility and legitimacy of EU action. 
The EU continues to face the challenge of achieving good quality results with a regime where the funds are allocated in advance among Member States and the use of these funds is an implicit objective. 
The effective monitoring and exercise of accountability by the Commission would help Member States to use the funds successfully. 
The opinions are available on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in all the official languages of the EU. 21 
22 COURT'S POSITION PAPER: Consequences OF THE TIME FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CRISIS FOR THE OPINION OF THE COMMISSION AND THE OPINAL FINANCIAL CONTROL OF THE EU SOW FOR THE ROLL OF THE HOF The ongoing global financial and economic crisis has had far-reaching consequences for the European Union. 
To address the crisis, the EU took measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of the financial sector, to promote economic recovery and economic growth, to provide financial assistance to Member States and to strengthen fiscal and economic coordination between Member States. 
Moreover, these measures have a decisive influence on how public funds, i.e. taxpayers' money of EU citizens, are used in the Union. 
These changes to the regulatory framework of the Union pose new challenges in terms of accountability, transparency and public financial control. 
In the Court's view, the implementation of these new measures is based on the principle that adequate modalities for transparency, public accountability and public financial control should be laid down whenever the use of public funds is concerned. 
We therefore adopted on 19 May 2011 a position paper on the consequences of the current financial and economic crisis on public accountability and public financial control in the EU as well as on the role of the Court. 
In this position paper, the Court concluded that it would involve the new supervisory authorities, the assistance mechanisms with EU budgetary guarantees and, where possible, the Commission's activities under the European Semester in its audits. 
The ECA considers that the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism should provide for a form of external public financial control. 
Finally, the Court notes that in a number of cases, accountability and transparency issues need to be reconsidered by the relevant EU institutions, in particular the European Parliament and the Council. 
Cooperation with OTHER SAIs The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) mainly in the following bodies: O Contact Committee of the SAIs of EU Member States; O Network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; O international organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its European Regional Group (EUROSAI). 
In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies cooperate with confidence while respecting their independence. 
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of EU Member States within the Contact Committee. 
In the Contact Committee, the Presidents of the EU-ORKB and the Court meet once a year. 
The Contact Committee provides a forum for cooperation and exchange of expertise and experience in the area of EU funds and other EU issues. 
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices. 
In 2011, the Court was acting Chair of the Contact Committee, continued to provide administrative support to the Committee and actively participated in the various working groups and networks. 
The 2011 annual meeting of the Contact Committee took place on 13 and 14 October 2011 at the Court's premises. 
The meeting focused on a seminar on the impact of the European Semester and other recent developments in the EU's economic governance on the EU-ORKB and the Court. 
In this context, inter alia, the regulation and monitoring of financial systems and financial institutions, state aid to the financial sector and the assessment of the mechanisms to deal with the euro crisis were addressed. 
The Contact Committee adopted a statement addressed to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission, as well as the parliaments and governments of the EU Member States. 
In addition, the Contact Committee adopted a resolution to take into account the call of the SAIs of euro area countries for adequate external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism. 
Statement and resolution are available on the Contact Committee website (www.contactcommittee.eu). 
23 The main speakers of the Contact Committee meeting 2011: Commissioner Olli Rehn, Luxembourg's Finance Minister Luc Frieden and ECB Vice-President Vítor Constâncio, together with President of the Court of Auditors Vítor Caldeira (third from left). 
24 STATEMENT ON THE IMPACT OF THE EUROPEAN SEMESTER AND OTHER RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE EU'S ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE ON THE SUPREME AUDIT AUTHORITIES OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS. In this regard by the CONTACT COMMITTEE on 14 October 2011 DECISIONS OF THE CONTACIAL COMMITTEE OF CONTACTORY TO Awareness OF CUSTOMER COMMITTEE AND THE GREAT RESULTS OF THE CUSTOMER MEMBERS Awareness of Public Financial Control The Contact Committee is convinced that, whenever it comes to the use of public funds, the following principles should be observed: "sufficient transparency in the form of reliable and timely information (including national statistics) on the ongoing or planned use of public funds and the associated risks; O adequate accountability, involving a public review of the actions and holding the decision-makers and those responsible for managing the procedures to account; O adequate public financial control to provide security and information regarding the use of public finances and associated risks in order to contribute to transparency and provide a basis for accountability". 
With a view to an effective response to the economic and financial crisis and its consequences in the field of public financial control, the SAIs of the EU and the Court of Auditors "will, as far as possible and within their respective mandates, consider adapting their audit work to the new framework conditions. 
In some cases, this process has already begun by introducing new and updated audit tasks." 
25 Further strengthening cooperation between the EU SAIs and the ECA The increasing interdependence of the EU's economic systems strongly underlines the value of a common approach that can be gained through close cooperation within the Contact Committee. 
This includes: O "joint learning from recent audit results and their impact as a way of gathering and sharing knowledge; O Identification and dissemination of up-to-date best practices in the examination of new (and existing) rules; O Identification of gaps in public financial control and possible new audit tasks, as well as new partnerships and consideration of how best to address in this context; O Reflections on the development of specific audit methods and techniques for SAIs, as well as tools and guidance for their application.' In order to develop these actions, the Contact Committee will use its existing networks for audits in the areas of Europe 2020 and fiscal policy, carry out parallel or coordinated audits and initiate other cooperation activities. 
Contact Committee meeting in Luxembourg on 13 and 14 October 2011 
26 NETCWERK OF THE ORKB OF WORLDERS AND POTENCIAL SUPPORTERS The Court actively participated in the activities of the Network of SAIs of Candidate Countries and Potential Candidate Countries1. 
The organisational structure of the network is comparable to that of the Contact Committee and includes regular meetings of the presidents of the SAIs and liaison officers, as well as working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits. 
The main objective is to promote the application of audit methods and procedures in line with international standards and EU best practices. 
A meeting of the Presidents of the Network took place on 8 and 9 March 2011 in Istanbul. 
The Turkish Court of Auditors and the European Court of Auditors held the joint chair of this meeting, which led to the adoption of the Istanbul Agreement, including a work programme for future activities to be implemented with active support from the European Court of Auditors, SIGMA and EU-ORKB representatives. 
In 2011, the European Court of Auditors, with the participation of the Austrian and Finnish SAIs, conducted a peer review of the Norwegian Court of Auditors. 
The report was published in June 2011. 
The Court continued its active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI. 
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of INTOSAI, he actively participates in the subcommittees on the technical standards for the different types of audits. 
In the course of 2011, these subcommittees began - after confirmation of a comprehensive package of international standards (ISSAI) by the XX. INCOSAI Congress in November 2010 - with the implementation of its new work plans focusing on the harmonisation of the ISSAI framework and the dissemination of standards and guidelines. 
In addition, the Court contributed to the subcommittee "Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews" and to the subcommittee "Intensified Support for Measures for the Development of Expertise of INTOSAI Members" as well as to the INTOSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment. 
In addition, the Court has chaired the INTOSAI Working Group on Accountability and Disaster Assistance Audit since 2008. 
An important objective of this working group is to develop guidelines in the area of accountability for disaster relief, to identify and disseminate best practices, focusing on activities aimed at stakeholders (multilateral bodies, aid organisations, governments, private auditors). 
1 In February 2012, the Network included five candidate countries (Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro and Turkey) and three potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia). 
With regard to EUROSAI, the Court is now more involved as it becomes a member of the Bureau for the next six years. 
The Court actively participated in VIII. EUROSAI Congress (30 May to 2 June 2011), which focused on the challenges, requirements and responsibilities of public administrations and the role of SAIs as well as the SAI's audit of independent regulatory agencies as key topics. 
A declaration was adopted which strengthened the independence of the SAIs. 
In December 2011, the joint efforts of the INTOSAI community and its regional working groups to strengthen the independence of the SAIs and to recognise the declarations of Lima and Mexico culminated with the adoption by the UN General Assembly of the resolution "Promoting an efficient, accountable, effective and transparent public administration by strengthening the Supreme Audit Boards". 27 
On 15 November 2011, the Court of Justice delivered its judgment in Case C-539/09 Commission v Federal Republic of Germany concerning the audit powers of the European Court of Auditors in the field of VAT (VAT). 
The case is based on the refusal of the German Federal Ministry of Finance in 2006 to allow the European Court of Auditors to carry out audits on cooperation between the administrative authorities of the Member States in the field of value added tax in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 in Germany. 
In preparing its Special Report No 8/2007, the Court decided to carry out audits in eight Member States, including Germany. 
The German authorities objected to the Court's right to carry out the audit in question. 
The German Government argued that the cooperation between the administrative authorities of the Member States, as provided for in Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003, did not have a direct link with EU revenues, since VAT was to be distinguished from a national tax and, therefore, from VAT own resources. 
The latter are determined according to a number of calculations and represent a relatively small proportion of the amounts collected by the Member States as VAT. 
The Court rejected the German Government's reasoning, which is based on a strict distinction between the Member States' VAT revenues from the Union's own resources. 
Based on the arguments put forward by the Commission, the European Parliament and the European Court of Auditors, the Court of Justice emphasised the dependence of VAT own resources on the VAT revenue of the Member States. 
The Court reiterated that the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 on administrative cooperation in the field of VAT was to establish mechanisms of cooperation between Member States which enable them to combat VAT evasion more effectively and to collect VAT more effectively. 
This also has an impact on the availability of VAT own resources for the EU budget. 
Where cooperation between national authorities is carried out effectively and in accordance with the Regulation, it can contribute to a reduction of fraud and the effective collection of VAT in the Member States, as well as to ensuring that VAT own resources remain at the level they must have under the various relevant EU legal acts, thereby maintaining the overall balance of own resources. 
The Court of Justice concluded that the Court of Auditors was empowered to carry out the audit envisaged in the context of administrative cooperation in the field of VAT, since it related to the EU's revenue from the point of view of its legality and sound financial management and was therefore directly linked to the powers conferred on the Court of Auditors by the Treaty. 
In Case C-539/09, the Court had to rule explicitly on the scope of the Court's audit powers for the first time. 
The Court's judgment is valuable and encouraging because it clarifies and substantiates the institution's scrutiny power vis-ŕ-vis the Member States. 
Lázaro-PREIS FOR KNOWING WORKS IN THE PRESS IN THE OPEN SECTOR 2010 the Court awarded for the first time the prize for scientific work in the field of public sector audit with the aim of establishing contacts with universities and promoting the development of public financial control in Europe. 
This first award of the prize was dedicated to commemorating Jesús Lázaro Cuenca, a former director of the Court, who had contributed over many years to the development of the institution's audit methods and approaches. 
The Lázaro laureates Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo were presented the prizes by the President of the Court of Auditors Vítor Caldeira and the Selection Committee in a public ceremony held at the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg on 5 July 2011. 
Both winners presented their scientific contributions at an academic meeting: Mrs Sara Belleil: 'Contribution ŕ une sociologie des pratiques managériales dans les politiques européennes. L'exemple of the ONG humanitaire's audit: entre importation et appropriation. 
Mr José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo: The control of public administration and the fight against corruption: Special reference to the Court of Audit and General Audit of the State Administration. 
29 The European Court of Auditors was deeply affected by the news of the premature death of Sara Belleil on 30 November 2011 and would like to acknowledge the quality and importance of her work. President Caldeira with Lázaro laureates Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo 
31 OUR MANAGEMENT OF THE STRATEGY FOR 20092012 In recent years, the Court has launched an internal reform process. 
This included the development of its first strategy for the period 2009-20122 with the following overarching objectives: maximising the overall impact of the tests; O Improve efficiency by making the best use of resources. 
Many of the priority actions foreseen in the strategy have already been completed. The remaining measures will be published in 2012 in 2 The audit strategy 2009-2012 is available at www.eca.europa.eu. Attacked. The most important achievements achieved in 2011 are: O an increase in the number of special reports; in the period 2009-2011, an average of 16 special reports were published per year, surpassing the target of 12-15 reports per year; O important contributions to the reform of the EU budget; O Initiating the preparation of regular follow-up reports on previous findings, including an overall follow-up report to be prepared for the first time in 2012; O revised audit strategies and audit guidelines; O increasing focus on core activities by relocating staff from support services to the audit service; O Publication of a position paper on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public accountability and public financial control within the EU and on the role of the Court. 
On the basis of the recommendation of the peer review carried out by an international expert panel in 2008, the Court strengthened the framework for its audit management by adopting ethical guidelines based on the INTOSAI obligations and code of conduct and the International Standard for Quality Control within SAI3. 
In this context, the Court has put in place a procedure to provide sufficient assurance on an annual basis that our auditors comply with the relevant ethical requirements. 
Respecting the values set out in the ethical guidelines, such as impartiality, objectivity, loyalty and professional secrecy, ensures that the Court's employees act in the public interest, unaffected by external pressure and unaffected by personal or financial interests. 
The Court's framework for professional conduct promotes the credibility of the information provided to its addressees. 
3 ISSAI 30 and ISSAI 40. 
32 TO THE WAY TO A NEW STRATEGY OF THE HOUSE FOR THE TIME 20132017 In 2011, the next strategy was developed, building on the successes of the current strategy ending in 2012. 
The Court takes the opportunity to adapt to developments in the EU and audit and to take into account the needs and expectations of its audience. 
Members of the European Court of Auditors 
Since 2008, the Court has gradually developed a set of key performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform management of the progress made in the implementation of the 2009-2012 targets; O to support the decision-making process; O to provide performance-related information to the addressee. 
The indicators are used to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, paying particular attention to the point of view of key addressees and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources. 
2011 is the second year in which all indicators were available. 
The Court continues to consider the results of its key performance indicators to be encouraging, in particular as regards the quality and impact of its audit work. 
In addition, the indicators clearly identify the areas in which progress is needed and the problems to be addressed in order to achieve a future increase in performance. 
2010 2011 4.2 4.0 = 4.2 3.7 3.7 = 3.7 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by the main addressees target for 2011 Assessment of the quality and impact of the audit work of the audited bodies The result shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports are on average for 'good'. 
In particular, the clarity and usefulness of the reports as well as the professionalism of the Court's auditors are estimated. 
Two external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports published in 2011. 
The auditors assessed four special reports and the 2010 annual reports on the general budget and the EDFs. 
They assessed the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high quality" (4). 
2010 2011 3.0 2.8 = 3.0 target for 2011 review of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by external experts The result shows that the auditors consider the quality of the Court's reports to be "satisfactory". 
The reviews have provided valuable insights and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports. 
Follow-up OF RECOMMENDATIONS With its recommendations, the Court contributes to improving financial management. 
The indicator is based on the recommendations in the annual and special reports published in 2011. 
In 2010 2011 90 % 93 % = 90 % target for 2011 Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited body began in 2011 with the systematic monitoring of the implementation of the recommendations by the audited bodies. 
As of 2012, the Court can report on how the recommendations are implemented in practice and bring about improvements. 
The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources according to the extent to which it is able to present reports and audit findings on time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff. 
Punctuality OF THE REPORTs The Court strives to accept all audit reports within the deadlines set. 
For the annual reports and specific annual reports, dates laid down in legislation must be observed. 
For special reports for which there is no publication date set out in legislation, the planned date of adoption shall be considered as a benchmark for punctuality. 
35 4 2010 90 % Number of reports adopted on time 80 % in 2011 83 % 90 % 75 % 90 % Overall, the Court did not fully meet its targets in 2011. 
The very high target for the number of reports was not met, while the overarching target of 12-15 special reports per year was exceeded and output was higher than in 2010. 
All annual reports, with the exception of all special annual reports, were adopted on schedule and published on time. 
4 The targets for these indicators have been changed from 100 % (2008-2010) to 90 % to reflect unexpected events. 
Punctuality OF audit findings Examination notices contain details of the specific audit findings and are drawn up after audit visits to Member States or the Commission. 
The Court uses them to confirm the factual accuracy of its findings by the audited bodies. Audit notifications are therefore an important stage in the audit process. 
The Court has previously found that there is a need for significant improvement in the preparation of the audit notices in terms of punctuality. The target to be achieved by the end of 2012 is: Preparation of 80 % of the audit notifications within two months of the audit visit concerned. 
2010 2011 Percentage of audit notifications prepared on time 54 % 58 % target for 20114 Number of adopted reports compared to the number of planned reports target for 2011 80 % to 2012 We improved the punctuality of audit notifications in 2011, however, the target has not yet been met. 
Significant progress has been made over the past three years (only 27 % of audit notifications were prepared on schedule in 2008) and the Court will continue to strive to improve its performance. 
The Court strives to obtain from its independent auditor an unqualified opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources and discharge from the European Parliament following a favourable recommendation from the Council. 
In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide the auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training (without language courses). 
In an internal employee satisfaction survey conducted in 2009, 86 % of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their work, with a total of 2.8 employee satisfaction levels ranging from 1 to 4. Any value above 2.5 indicates overall satisfaction. 
The Court strives to maintain or improve this result if a similar survey is conducted in 2012. 
The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its specialised services. 
These services shall provide the logistical, technical and/or technical know-how which enables the Court to recruit, retain and motivate its staff and to develop its professional skills; O to disseminate the results of the examination in all official languages of the EU; O to make the best use of information technology; O to manage its budget and maintain its infrastructure; O to carry out audit visits to obtain evidence on the spot in the countries where EU funds are collected and spent. 
37 PERSONAL Staff allocation The most important asset of the Court is its employees. 
At 31. In December 2010, the Court's staff was 887 (officials and temporary staff but excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees). 
Of these, 564 are employed in examination chambers (including 123 staff in Members' cabinets), 148 in the Translation Directorate, 148 in administrative support services and 27 in the services of the President. 
With a view to achieving the best possible use of resources, all services once again explored and implemented ways of improving efficiency by simplifying procedures in 2011. 
Where possible, efficiencies outside the audit area have shifted posts to the audit service, contributing more than half to the 12.6 % increase in audit posts since 2008. 
Distribution of the Court's posts on 31. December 2008 2009 2010 2011 Examination 501 525 557 564 Translation 163 163 151 148 Administration 173 171 157 148 Services of the President 20 21 24 27 Total 857 880 889 887 
38 SETTINGS The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output. 
The ECA's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff consists of both officials and temporary staff. 
Open competitions for ECA posts are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
In addition, the Court advocates a limited REGULATION OF MEN AND WOMEN, like the other EU institutions, the Court operates an equal opportunities policy within the framework of its human resources policy and recruitment. 
After a continuous increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now reached a balanced proportion of men and women among its employees. 
In 2011, the Court hired 75 employees: 23 officials, 24 temporary staff and 28 contract staff. 
In particular, the Court succeeded in recruiting new staff to audit bodies. 
On 31. In December 2011, 25 vacancies were vacant - significantly less than in 2010 (44). 
As a result, the vacancy rate fell below 3 % for the first time. 
2001 2011 Men 54 % 50 % Women 46 % 50 % The graph below shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility at 31. December 2011. 
Of the 65 directors and heads of unit, 18 (28 %) are women, which corresponds to developments in recent years. 
However, most of them are active in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative services. 
According to the latest recruitment waves, 45 % of staff in grades AD5 to AD8 are women. 
Age profile The age profile of the 31st In December 2010 active staff showed that 60 % of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger. 
Ages 20-24 0.0 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 23 of the 65 directors and heads of unit are 55 years old or older. 
As a result, there will be an extensive renewal in senior management positions over the next five to ten years. 
39 3.8 % 16.3 % 20.7 % 19.2 % 17.5 % 11.5 % 7.6 % 3.4 % REQUIREMENT The examiner's profession requires continuous training to keep pace with new developments and acquire new skills. 
In 2011, the Court's staff completed an average of 9.3 days of professional training. 
Language courses accounted for 54 % of the total number of training days (compared to 57 % in 2010). 
In addition to language courses, the auditors completed 6.1 days of professional training in 2011 and thus fulfilled an important objective of the institution. 
In 2011, improvements in the content of training activities were made and new courses were developed in order to meet the priorities in the field of testing. 
In addition, the Court has streamlined the training management system. 
Translation Translation is an important activity of audit support that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and achieve its communication objectives. 
In 2011, the volume of translation was comparable to the workload of 2010. 
More than 99 % of the translation services were delivered on time. 
In 2011, additional posts and staff from the Translation Directorate were transferred to the Audit Service. 
The Court's Directorate for Translation also provided valuable linguistic support for auditors during missions and in the subsequent stages of the drafting of audit reports. 
In addition, the Translation Directorate supported the Contact Committee, INTOSAI working groups and covered other specific needs related to the Court's audit work. 
In addition, the Court's Directorate for Translation was actively involved in inter-institutional and international specialised bodies. 
Information Technology (IT) plays a key role in the implementation of the overall objectives of the Court's strategy for the period 2009-2012. 
In 2011, the Court took the following measures: O Strengthen its investment in knowledge management by launching the development of a new version of the screening support instrument (assyst2 project) based on the recently established cooperation platform; O active continuation of its efforts to streamline internal processes through electronic workflows in areas such as mission management and training, and electronic archiving of personnel files to continuously increase efficiency and effectiveness; continuing support for mobility through the use of smartphones and laptop computers, as well as launching a project for an extranet, which will also play a central role in facilitating electronic exchange with a large number of ECA partners (including audited bodies, budgetary authority, newly recruited staff, suppliers). 
These developments were carried out while enhancing operational security and emergency measures to ensure the necessary availability and quality of all the Court's IT services. 
Management AND INFRASTRUCTURE The task of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services is to provide the Court's auditors with adequate support in an efficient, effective and timely manner and to ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all our activities. 
In 2011, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness with a view to unlocking resources to relocate to the Audit Service. 
Following an agreement with the Budgetary Authority (Parliament and Council) at the end of 2008 on the financing of the K3 building, a key activity in 2011 was the construction of the second extension building to the Court's main building. 
Construction work was completed during 2011 and the shell construction was made weatherproof at the end of the year. 
Great progress has been made in interior design. 
The time and budget of the construction project is respected. 
The Court is expected to take possession of the building at the end of 2012 and the move is expected to take place in the first quarter of 2013. 
Analyses carried out in 2009 and 2010 led the Court to conclude that its security objectives could best be achieved and that risks could be managed most efficiently and cost-effectively if the recession and security services are provided internally. 
This was achieved in April 2011 by replacing the external security service contractor by a small team of contract agents. 
The annual costs will be more than EUR 0.5 million lower in 2012 than in 2009. 
Audit visits During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and to other beneficiaries of EU funds as well as to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations. 
The purpose of these audit visits is to obtain direct audit evidence. 
Visits usually apply to central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as the respective final recipients. 
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member State visited. 
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors and the duration of an audit trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of examination and distance. 
In 2011, the Court undertook a total of 379 audit missions5-343 in Member States and 36 outside the EU in relation to audits related to annual reports and specific annual reports and selected audit tasks. 
A comparable number of audit visits were carried out to the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg. 
5 This corresponds to the number of Member States and beneficiary countries to which audit visits were carried out in connection with the individual audit tasks. 
In 2010, the corresponding figure was 376. 
30 41 25 19 19 17 Examinations within the EU 15 Total 343 12 12 11 11 Examinations outside the EU 10 10 10 10 Total 36 99 555 44322 322221111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Financial information The Court is financed from the general budget of the EU. 
Its budget accounts for around 0.1 % of the EU's total expenditure and less than 2 % of total administrative expenditure. 
Implementation OF THE HAUSHALTSPLAN 2011 43 HOUSHALTSYYHR 2011 Final commitments Use of appropriations in % (commitments/received appropriations) Payments (EUR 1 000) Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions Title 1 in total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditures 12 817 87 382 3 820 2 827 1 530 108 376 5 913 4 702 691 665 570 733 12 874 121 250 13 411 95 416 416 420 3 652 2 485 119 169 12 952 87 624 3 864 3 417 2 115 109 972 97 % 92 % 94 % 85 % 92 % 98 % 98 % 100 % 89 % 84 % 88 % 97 % 93 % 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 20 - Building 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and related costs 23 - Current operating expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 14 171 6 500 816 542 893 2 240 25 162 144 331 13 915 6 500 746 482 753 1 969 24 365 134 337 Title 2 total Court of Auditors 
44 In 2011, the implementation rate of the total budget available was 93 %. 
For Title 1, this rate is 92 %, the lowest in Chapter 16 (other expenditure on members and staff of the institution) (85 %). 
For Title 2, the average execution rate is 97 %. 
The amount of payments to be charged to Chapter 20 (Buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the K3 building. 
The third financing tranche of EUR 7 million for this project has been entered in the 2011 budget; this amount was committed and partially disbursed in 2011. 
The remainder of the budget for the K3 building was transferred to 2012 and is intended to finance the contracts awarded to construction companies by the project manager on behalf of the Court. 
The appropriations will be used as explained by the Court in its request submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in 2008. 
Construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of EUR 79 million, to be financed in five consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009; EUR 11 million in 2010; 7 million euros in 2011 and 3 million euros in 2012 and 2013. 
Budget 2012 Budget 2012 The 2012 budget decreased by 1.28 % compared to 2011, mainly due to a decrease in appropriations for the K3 building. 
Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution Title 1 in total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure 14 592 96 487 4 173 3 802 2 682 121 736 9 941 6 501 837 525 793 2 144 20 741 142 477 12 930 95 957 3 825 3 652 2 485 118 849 14 611 6 500 816 422 893 2 240 25 482 144 331 45 HOUSHALT 2012 2011 (EUR 1 000) 20 - Building 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and related costs 23 - Current operating expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Total Title 2 
The task of the Internal Audit Service is to provide independent and objective assurance and to provide advice in such a way as to increase and improve the Court's activities. 
It supports the Court in achieving the objectives of the institution by applying a systematic and rigorous approach to assessing and making recommendations to improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. 
In carrying out its duties, the Internal Audit Service shall act in accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, the legislation applicable to EU officials and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Audit. 
In 2009, the Court's Internal Audit Service was audited and certified in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors. 
The annual accounts of the European Court of Auditors are audited by an independent auditor. 
This is a key component of the Court's efforts to ensure that it applies to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the bodies it audits. 
In 2011, the Court's Internal Audit Service presented reports on the following issues: State of play of the implementation of the Court's strategy for the period 2009-2012; Implementation of key performance indicators; Construction of the new K3 building of the Court; Use of the escrow account for payments to eligible beneficiaries; Follow-up of previous recommendations. 
In all respects, the Internal Audit Service assisted the Court's independent auditor in its audit with regard to the certification of the Court's annual accounts and the effectiveness of its internal control procedures. 
The Court's Internal Audit Committee advises on internal audit issues and monitors the related internal control environment as part of the institution's risk management procedures. 
In 2011, the Internal Audit Committee and the Internal Auditor analysed the results of the Internal Audit Service's audits, the implementation of the Action Plans with an impact on the internal control environment and the risks to the institution's governance. 
The audit opinion of the auditor - PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL - on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2010 was published in September 20116. 
47 AUDIT OPINIONS OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2010 ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS: "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31. December 2010 and cash flows for the year ending on that date in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23. December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the above-mentioned Council Regulation and the European Union's accounting rules.' "In our work steps described in this report, we have not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria (a) the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and (b) the control procedures established do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 
The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, o the information contained in this report to be accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable assurance that - the funds allocated for the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management; and that - the control procedures put in place provide the necessary assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts and for the appropriate handling of allegations of fraud or suspicion of fraud. 
This sufficient assurance is based on the undersigned's assessment and the information available to him, such as the results of the ex post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years. 
Luxembourg, 8 March 2012 Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary General 
The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the European Union based in Luxembourg. 
The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body consisting of 27 members, each with one member per Member State. 
Its members shall be appointed by the Council for a six-year term after consulting the European Parliament. 
Members elect a president from among them for three years, with the possibility of re-election. 
The Court is organised by chambers to which members are assigned. 
The Chambers prepare reports and opinions for adoption by the Court. 
Audit Chambers I to IV cover various revenue and expenditure areas, while the fifth, the CEAD Chamber, is responsible for horizontal matters. 
The chambers are supported by audit directorates. 
Since the amendment of the Court's Rules of Procedure in 2010, certain categories of reports and opinions of the Court may be adopted by Chambers instead of the whole College of the Court. 
The Administrative Committee shall meet under the chairmanship of the President and shall be composed of the Doyens of the Chambers and the Secretary-General (responsible for the Court's administrative and support services). 
The Committee has a coordinating role and prepares the Court's decisions on strategic planning, performance management and administrative matters. 
Each member is responsible for specific tasks, primarily in the area of audit. 
Members shall submit audit proposals and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible to the respective Chamber and to the Court. 
Following the adoption of a report, it will be presented by the "rapporteur" to the European Parliament, the Council and other relevant stakeholders. 
Members will be assisted by their cabinet staff and the audit team. 49 
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2011 Luxembourg: Office for Publications of the European Union 2012-49 pp. - 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693 
WHERE DO I GET EU PUBLICATIONS? Free publications: • via the EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • to the Representations and Delegations of the European Union. 
QJ-AA-12-001-EN-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu www.eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorsECA ISBN 978-9237-508-9 
ISSN 1684-0666 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2012 ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT DE 
Luxembourg: Office for Publications of the European Union, 2013 ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 (c) European Union, 2013 Reprinted with source allowed. 
European Court of Auditors JEARLY ACTIVITY REPORT 2012 
The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances under the Treaty. 
As an EU external auditor, he contributes to improving EU financial management, promotes accountability and transparency, and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens. 
Independence, INTEGRITITY AND UNPARTMENT PROFESSIONALITY PROFESSIONALITY EXCELLENT AND EFFICIENCE Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff. 
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work. 
Active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level. 
Producing relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the concerns of its audience and containing important and forward-looking statements. 
To contribute to an effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and to contribute to strengthening accountability for the management of EU funds. 
Fostering team spirit through effective communication. 
5 INSTITUTIONS page 6 OF THE PRESIDENT 8 2012 ON A BLICK 9 OUR ACTIVITIES 9 Examination Reports and OPINIONS 30 SUMMARY WITH OTHER OVEREST Audit Institutions 34 OUR MANAGEMENT 35 WECTS IN THE COLLEGION OF THE HOUSE 36 MESSDATES FOR PERFORMANCE OF THE HOUSE 44 COMPANY OF THE Audit Activities 49 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 54 35 YEARS IN THE SERVICE OF A BEATHER FUNCTION OF THE EU 6 BORLD OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to reading the European Court of Auditors' Annual Activity Report 2012! 
In 2012, an important focus of the Court's work was to prepare the Union for the key challenges in the area of financial management post-2013. 
At the beginning of the year, the Court adopted its opinion on some proposals for regulations relating to the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), probably the most well-known EU policy. 
The draft regulation was part of the package of legislative proposals related to the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020. 
With a number of opinions and reports published in 2012, the Court actively contributed to strengthening the new rules to which the EU's revenue and expenditure will be subject during this period. 
Furthermore, in 2012, the Court continued to closely monitor the impact of developments in the EU's economic governance on public accountability and financial control. 
This year, the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism entered into force and the Audit Committee of this new body, including a representative of the Court, met for its first meeting. 
In December 2012, the Council of the European Union adopted its position on the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism to ensure prudential supervision of euro area credit institutions and the Court announced its position on public accountability and financial control to EU policy makers. 
Many changes in the area of economic governance and the EU budget result from the need to achieve better political outcomes with lower public resources while strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability. 
Due to its unique powers and perspective, on the one hand, and the audit experience gained over the course of its 35-year history and the partnerships established, on the other hand, the Court is well positioned to support the EU in addressing these challenges. 
Based on our successes in recent years, the Court's objective is to maximise the Court's contribution to improving the EU's accountability over the period 2013-2017. 
The farm is currently celebrating its 35th anniversary. 
Europe has changed fundamentally since the Court began its work in 1977. 
The structure of the Court and the way it performs its audits reflect these changes. 
With the accession of new Member States, the transfer of competences to the Union and the establishment of numerous bodies at EU level, the Court's audit area has widened. 
The Court has also grown as an institution, from nine members and 120 employees in 1977 to 27 members and nearly 900 employees in 2012. 
This growth allowed the farm to build up a professional, dedicated and experienced workforce. 
2012 was the last year covered by the Court's strategy for the period 2009-2012. 
The Court recorded encouraging results over the course of this period. 
As this Annual Activity Report shows, output has been increased, external experts classify the quality of our reports as good, and the main institutional addressees find them useful. 
The level of acceptance by the Commission of the Court's recommendations is consistently high and the Court's new follow-up report highlights the positive impact of the recommendations. 
The Court can also show efficiency gains in the area of management and translation, which led to the deployment of 40 additional staff in the audit area at the end of the period. 
In order to achieve the objectives for the period 2013-2017, the Court will prioritise products to improve EU accountability and strengthen and expand our partnerships, professionalism and efficiency. 
In 2013, an international peer review team will examine the Court's performance audit practices and follow up on the results of the previous 2008 peer review process. 
Other key actions launched in 2013 include streamlining the Court's reporting procedures and making even better use of our shared knowledge, expertise and expertise. 
With these and other initiatives, the Court intends to support the EU in addressing its growing public accountability and financial control challenges in the years to come. 
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 7 
8 2012 TO A CLICK OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual Reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds for the financial year 2011, which have improved clarity and information. o 50 specific annual reports on the various EU agencies, decentralised bodies and agencies for the financial year 2011. o 25 Special Reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues. o 9 Opinions with contributions to budgetary reform such as the reform of the common agricultural policy and a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Union by means of criminal law. 
Our MANAGEMENT o Adoption of a new strategy for 2013-2017, which will lead the Court's work during this period, with the aim of maximising the value of the Court's contribution to the EU's public accountability. o Our key performance indicators for the period 2008-2012 show improved performance; for the first time, they measure the proportion of our recommendations that have been implemented. o The further development of human resources policy and the continuation of the transfer of posts to the audit service through efficiency gains in the management and translation sector have increased the Court's capacity to fulfil its mission. o The construction work on the K3 building - the second extension of the Court - has been completed so that all the staff of the Court can be accommodated at one site. The members of the Court at a meeting 
9 OUR REPORTS AND OPINIONS The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are as follows: O Annual Reports - including the results of its financial and compliance audits on the budget of the European Union and on the European Development Funds (EDF); in addition, special annual reports on EU agencies, decentralised bodies and agencies are published separately; O Special reports - which may be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits on specific budgetary or management areas; these are mainly performance audits; O Opinions on draft acts affecting financial management and statements and position papers on other issues at the Court's own initiative. 
Since 2008, the number of special annual reports and special reports of the Court has increased sharply. 
The annual reports have also been further developed: More analytical information is now available, the presentation of the data has been more unified to facilitate the comparison between areas and over time, and a new chapter on performance-related issues has been added. 
The significant increase in the opinions issued is due to the fact that the Court has been consulted on the large legislative proposals related to the new financial framework (2014-2020). 
Number of reports and opinions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 Special Annual Reports on EU Agencies and Decentralised Bodies 29 37 40 42 50 Special Reports 12 18 14 16 25 Opinions and other statements 5 1 6 8 10 INSTANCE 48 58 62 68 87 The full version of the individual reports and opinions is available on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in 22 official EU languages. 
While the vast majority of audit work takes place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, auditors also make visits to the EU institutions, agencies and decentralised bodies, the authorities of the Member States and other beneficiaries of EU funds (including the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations in Switzerland). 
Audit visits usually apply to central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as the respective final recipients. 
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States visited. 
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors and the duration of an audit trip may be a few days up to two weeks, depending on the type of examination and distance. 
In 2012, the Court's auditors spent 6 816 days of on-the-spot audits - 6 054 in Member States and 762 outside the EU - and obtained audit evidence for the annual reports, specific annual reports and selected audit tasks. 
They spent a similar amount of time at the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg. 
800 700 600 500 400 300 100 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 On-site inspection days 2012 00 Spain France United Kingdom Poland Italy Germany Greece Romania Portugal Netherlands Czech Republic Lithuania Luxembourg Denmark Austria Sweden Slovenia Bulgaria Latvia Finland Ireland Belgium Estonia Slovakia Malta Cyprus Uzbekistan Russia USA Norway Morocco Namibia Ukraine Guatemala Turkey Kyrgyzstan Switzerland Kosovo Senegal Ethiopia Cameroon Serbia Indonesia Egypt Zambia Israel Congo 
11 The key statements of the Annual Report 2011 o The annual accounts for the financial year 2011 represent appropriately the financial position of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for that year. 
Revenue and commitments were not materially affected by errors. 
However, payments were materially affected by errors, with the estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole being 3.9 %. 
This error rate is comparable to that in 2010, which stood at 3.7 %. O All individually assessed EU spending areas are materially affected by errors, with the exception of external relations, external assistance and enlargement, as well as administrative expenditure. 
This shows that improvements continue to be needed in the management of EU funding. o The Court's estimated error rate for rural development, environment, fisheries and health (the most error-prone expenditure) expenditure was 7.7 %. 
The estimated error rate for regional policy, energy and transport remained high at 6.0 %. 
This is based on the fact that the Commission has recognised the existence of a high risk of error in some areas, in particular rural development, cohesion and research. 
Many cases have been identified where the controls failed. o The Commission's self-assessment in terms of performance has been further developed, which has led to positive improvements compared to previous years. 
Nevertheless, the Court's performance audits in 2011 found that good quality needs analysis was often lacking, weaknesses in the programme design impacted reporting on results and impacts, and that the Commission must demonstrate European added value. 
In the course of 2012, the Court devoted the bulk of its audits to the 2011 EU budget to the implementation of the EU budget for 2011. 
The 2011 Annual Report, resulting from this work, was published on 6 November 2012. 
The aim of the annual report is to support the European Parliament, the Council and citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management by presenting findings and conclusions, and recommend appropriate improvements. 
The 18th Annual Statement of Assurance ("DAS") on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions is the core element of the 2011 annual reports. 
The 2011 annual report on the implementation of the EU budget included two new chapters, which include more targeted results for agriculture and cohesion. 
The previous chapter on agriculture and natural resources was covered by the chapter "Agriculture: Market support and direct payments' and 'Rural development, environment, fisheries and health'. 
In addition, the separate chapters "Regional policy, energy and transport" and "Employment and social affairs" replace the previous chapter on cohesion, energy and transport. 
The European Development Funds (EDF) are financed by EU Member States but managed outside the EU budget. They are subject to their own financial regulations. 
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of EDF-funded actions. 
From the European Development Funds (EDFs), the European Union provides development cooperation assistance to African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs) on the basis of the Cotonou Agreement signed in 2000. 
In line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of ACP countries and OCTs into the world economy, the expenditure concerned is aimed at curbing and finally eradicating poverty. 
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars: development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension. 
The Court's 2011 annual report on the EDFs was published in parallel to the annual report on the EU budget on 6 November 2012. 
We found that the financial statements of the EDFs for 2011 represent the financial position of the EDFs as well as the results of their operations and cash flows. 
However, 33 % of EDF transactions were affected by errors, including an estimated rate of 5.1 % of error-related payments. 
Special YEAR REPORTS TO THE AGENTURES, DECENTRAL INSTRUCTIONS AND SOCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EU FOR 2011 In 2012, the Court published 50 special annual reports, mostly covering the financial year 2011, on the agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. joint undertakings) and other EU agencies. 
EU Agencies and Decentralised Bodies are set up on the basis of EU legislation to carry out specific tasks. 
President Caldeira at the presentation of the 2011 Annual Report at the plenary session of the European Parliament (November 2012) 
In addition to its annual reports, the Court publishes special reports throughout the year containing the results of the performance and compliance audits carried out by the Court on specific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice. 
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is keen to achieve maximum impact and thus make the best use of its resources. 
In the selection of topics, the Court takes into account the following factors: O the risks to profitability or compliance with legal standards in the relevant revenue or expenditure area; O the amount of the respective revenue or expenditure; O the time elapsed since a previous test; pending developments within the relevant legal framework; O the political and public interest. 
In 2012, the Court adopted 25 special reports covering a wide range of topics. 
This represents a significant increase compared to the 16 special reports adopted in 2011 (and the 12 special reports adopted in 2008). 
All special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in full length or available through the EU Bookshop. 
The following pages present the topics of the special reports adopted in 2012, each under the corresponding headings of the 2013-2017 financial framework - the EU's multiannual budgetary plan. 
14 RUBRIK OF FINANCIAL COMMUNITIES - FINANCIAL RESULTS The EU spending on sustainable growth covers two areas: Competitiveness includes promoting research and technological development, networking Europe through EU networks, education and training, promoting competitiveness in a fully integrated single market, the social policy agenda and the dismantling of nuclear installations. 
The EU spending for growth and jobs for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2 % of the EU budget, of which almost two thirds are R & D. 
Cohesion for growth and jobs mainly concerns cohesion policy implemented by funds dedicated to specific areas of activity: European Social Fund (ESF), European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and Cohesion Fund (CF). 
The EU budget for cohesion for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 348.4 billion, or 35.7 % of the total EU budget. 
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: O Financial instruments for SMEs co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (No 2/2012) - This special report assessed the efficiency and effectiveness of the financial technical measures co-financed by the ERDF during the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods. The audit concerned a sample of projects in Germany, Portugal, Slovakia, Hungary and the United Kingdom and included an investigation of the management, monitoring and information systems of the Commission and the Member States. 
The Court concluded that the effectiveness and efficiency of the expenditure incurred under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) on financial instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) was affected because the regulatory framework did not provide an adequate basis for the use of the different types of financial instruments. 
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) form the backbone of the EU economy and ensure employment, innovation and prosperity. 
However, SMEs may not be able to meet their financial needs in the form and amount they need. 
To support them, the EU is deploying its corporate and cohesion policy, mainly in the form of aid, and increasingly in the ERDF framework through financial instruments. 
Financial instruments are repayable, revolving instruments. 
According to the Commission's figures, the ERDF allocations for financial instruments amount to 1.6 billion euro and EUR 10.4 billion respectively for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods. 
O Structural Funds - Have the Commission reacted effectively to deficiencies identified in Member States' management and control systems? 
(No 3/2012) - This special report examined the extent to which the Commission initiated appropriate corrective measures, ensured their timely implementation and had a sufficient level of assurance that their measures would result in appropriate financial corrections on past irregularities, as well as improvements in systems in order to avoid the recurrence of irregularities. 
The audit was mainly carried out on the basis of a review of 40 programmes where significant deficiencies had been identified. 
We found that the Commission was quite successful in ensuring the correct application of financial corrections with regard to the deficiencies in the Member States' management and control systems, but that it was only to a lesser degree of assurance that its measures led to improvements in Member States' systems. 
Structural Fund expenditure is subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States. 
Member States shall draw up multiannual programmes which are examined and approved by the Commission and subsequently implemented by the Member States. 
If there are significant deficiencies in the management and control systems of the Member States, the Commission shall endeavour to ensure that irregularities are corrected and systems are improved. o Use of Structural and Cohesion Funds to co-finance transport infrastructure in seaports: an effective investment? 
(No 4/2012) - This special report assessed the effectiveness of the objectives and outputs of 27 projects co-financed by the ERDF and Cohesion Fund under the reporting code for "Transport Infrastructure" during the period 2000-2006. 
We found that investments in seaport transport infrastructure under cohesion policy were only effective for 11 of the 27 audited projects. 
Maritime transport is the second most important mode of transport in the EU. 
The Commission forecasts growth of 3.8 billion tonnes in 2006 to 5.3 billion tonnes in 2018. 
Since 2000, the EU has allocated around 6.2 billion euro to co-finance seaport infrastructure from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. 
15 Examination of EU expenditure on transport 
16 RUBRIK OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATION - RELIABILITY OF WATER o Does the support of urban waste management infrastructure projects in structural measures provide effective support to Member States in achieving the objectives of EU waste policy? 
(No 20/2012) - This special report assessed the performance of 26 sampled waste management infrastructure projects. It examined the achievement of the objectives of the EU waste policy and the implementation of accompanying measures in the eight regions where the infrastructures are located. 
We found that the effectiveness of the support for municipal waste management infrastructure in EU structural measures was affected by the inadequate implementation of accompanying measures and weaknesses in EU legislation and guidelines. 
In 2010, every citizen of the 27 EU Member States produced an average of about 500 kg of waste, which, if not properly collected, treated and disposed of, could lead to negative environmental impacts. 
The EU has introduced common standards and targets in the form of guidelines for the management of municipal waste and co-finances waste management infrastructures in certain regions. 
For the period 2000-2013, the EU has earmarked EUR 10.8 billion for waste management infrastructure. o Cost-effectiveness of investments in energy efficiency under cohesion policy (No 21/2012) - This special report assessed whether investments in energy efficiency made under cohesion policy were cost-effective by examining whether planning and financing had the right conditions to enable cost-effective investments in energy efficiency and whether energy efficiency projects carried out in public buildings were cost-effective. 
We found that the average payback period of EU investments in energy efficiency is more than 50 years (in extreme cases up to 150 years). This means that funds for this type of investment could be used more cost-effectively. 
The cost of increased energy consumption, the depletion of fossil fuels and the impact of human action on global climate change are the drivers of recent EU policies to increase energy efficiency. 
Since 2000, the European Union has spent almost EUR 5 billion under cohesion policy on co-financing energy efficiency measures in the Member States. 
(No 23/2012) - This special report examined whether the project objectives were achieved, whether the target orientation of EU funding was based on sound criteria and whether the results achieved were achieved at the lowest possible cost for the EU budget. 
We audited the performance of 27 projects for the revitalisation of fallow areas using EU co-financing totalling EUR 231 million and analysed the instruments for the revitalisation of fallow areas, which are the framework for the specific co-financed actions, in Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and the United Kingdom. 
(The conclusions of this special report will be published on 18 April 2013.) 
In recent decades, more and more dismantled industrial and military areas (so-called "breaking areas") have become available. 
Many fallow areas are contaminated. 
The revitalisation and re-use of fallow land will be promoted through EU structural measures with the aim of promoting the protection of human health and the environment and to counteract the sprawling of the landscape. 
EU funding for this area amounted to a total of EUR 5.7 billion in 2000-2013. 
O European Union Solidarity Fund response to the 2009 Abruzzo earthquake: Relevance and costs of actions (No 24/2012) - This special report assessed whether the actions financed were in line with the EUSF Regulation and whether the construction project "CASE", which accounted for the bulk of the expenditure, was well planned and designed and carried out with due regard to the aspect of economy. 
We found that while the other projects financed were eligible, the CASE project was not in line with the EUSF Regulation. 
There were also weaknesses in the planning of the CASE project and in ensuring the economy in its implementation. 
The 2009 earthquake, centered in the Italian region of Abruzzo, caused damage of more than 10 billion euros. 
The European Union supported the Italian disaster management with a contribution of EUR 0.5 billion from its solidarity fund, which was used for rescue operations, the provision of emergency shelters and temporary schools, as well as for the CASE project for the construction of earthquake-proof homes. 
The Cathedral of L'Aquila in Italy almost four years after the 2009 earthquake o Are there instruments to monitor the effectiveness of the European Social Fund expenditure on older workers? 
(No 25/2012) - This special report examined whether and to what extent the Member States and the Commission have developed and deployed appropriate tools to assess the achievement of the objectives for older workers. 
Six programs worth 222 million euros were selected. The programmes concerned four Member States: Germany, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom. 
We found that neither the Member States nor the Commission can make any representations on the extent to which the ESF-supported measures were actually beneficial for older workers. 
From 2007 to the end of 2013, the ESF will spend more than EUR 75 billion in support of Member States in the field of employment, representing around 8 % of the EU's overall budget. 
One of the most disadvantaged groups is older workers. 
17 Newly built, earthquake-proof housing in L'Aquila, Italy 
The EU has a high political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment. 
The planned budget for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 413,1 billion, i.e. 42.3 % of the total EU budget. 
Three quarters of the expenditure concerns direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) - the "first pillar" of the common agricultural policy (CAP). 
Another fifth of the expenditure is the support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second 'pillar' of the CAP. 
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: O Reform of the common organisation of the market in wine: progress made so far (No 7/2012) - This special report assessed progress towards one of the main objectives of the wine reform, namely progress towards a better balance between supply and demand. 
The audit focused on the measures "finishing premium" and "restructuring and conversion of vineyards", which constitute the two main areas of expenditure and are of crucial importance for achieving the objective of achieving a better balance between supply and demand. 
We found that these two measures were at odds with each other and that the structural surplus was not significantly reduced. 
For the three-year period of application of the grubbing-up measure (2008/2009 to 2010/2011), the EU provided a budget of EUR 1.1 billion. 
For restructuring and conversion, EUR 4.2 billion was allocated for the ten-year period up to 2010. 
We found that the measure to modernise farms would have been potentially more effective by making more targeted use of the means to meet EU priorities and specific needs in the Member States, on the one hand, and through the actual use of selection procedures. 
This aid concerns the financing of investments in agricultural holdings, ranging from investments for simple items such as agricultural equipment or wooden boxes for fruit to investments in complex projects such as biogas plants. 
The EU budget for this aid (derived from the EAFRD) amounts to a total of EUR 11.1 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period, representing around 11 % of all EU expenditure earmarked for rural development. o Audit of the control system governing the production, processing, distribution and import of organic products (No 9/2012) - This special report examined whether the control system for organic products provides sufficient assurance that the key requirements for the production, processing, distribution and import of organic products are met. 
It examined how the various bodies involved (EU Commission and competent authorities of the Member States, accreditation bodies and control bodies) have fulfilled their tasks within the EU and in the management of import arrangements. 
We found that the competent authorities in the Member States encountered difficulties in ensuring the traceability of organic products. In addition, there were weaknesses in the system that need to be addressed in order to provide sufficient assurance that the system works effectively and to ensure that consumer confidence is not undermined. 
The objective of the EU regulatory framework for organic production is to provide a basis for the sustainable development of organic production, to ensure a level playing field, to protect consumer interests while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. 
A control system was established to control and certify each operator in the supply chain. o Direct aid for suckler cows and ewes and goats under the partial implementation of the single payment scheme (No 11/2012) - This special report examined whether the aid was targeted at the most relevant regions in the Member States, whether it was effective in maintaining a specific production and thus avoiding negative social, economic and environmental impacts, and whether it was the subject of proper monitoring and evaluation by the Commission and the Member States. 
We found that CAP direct aid for dam stock does not deliver better results than decoupled aid. 
Following the 2003 CAP reform, agricultural aid previously granted in the form of direct payments linked to the production of certain agricultural products (so-called 'coupled' aids) should no longer be paid (i.e. decoupled) after the introduction of the single payment scheme (i.e. they were decoupled). 
However, for certain sectors and regions, some exemptions from full decoupling have been foreseen in order to limit the potential negative effects of an immediate transition to such a scheme. 
The budget available for this direct aid for 2011 amounted to a total of 1.0 billion euro. 
19 On-the-spot audit of a beneficiary holding in Spain 
20 RUBRIK OF THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITIES - Awareness and Emotion of NATURAL RESSOURCES o Implementation of EU hygiene rules in the slaughterhouses of the countries that have joined the EU since 2004 (No 14/2012) - This special report examined whether the Commission and the Member States concerned have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the relevant adaptations to EU hygiene rules have been made in slaughterhouses. 
The monitoring, orientation support, implementation and financing of hygiene compliance measures were checked. 
The Court examined slaughterhouses in Poland, Romania, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, which had received EU funding. 
While the Court found that the systems set up to monitor the hygiene rules were adequate overall by the Commission and the competent authorities, the audit identified a number of shortcomings in the implementation of these systems, highlighting the need for greater rigour at all levels to mitigate risks. 
The Member States that have joined the EU since 2004 had to ensure that their slaughterhouses complied with EU hygiene rules. 
As these rules generally contained much stricter requirements than the respective national rules, EU funds were allocated to assist slaughterhouses in complying with hygiene rules and related modernisation. 
Around EUR 117 million was allocated to 241 slaughterhouses under the Special Preparation Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development (Sapard programme). 
The support was then continued under the EAGGF and the EAFRD. o Effectiveness of the single area payment scheme as a transitional system for supporting farmers in the new Member States (No 16/2012) - This special report examines the main weaknesses, such as payments to beneficiaries who did not carry out (or only marginal) agricultural activity, payments for abandoned land or land used for non-agricultural activities, payments to government authorities and aid focusing on a few large beneficiaries. 
We found that some of the aid was paid to beneficiaries engaged in only marginal or non-agricultural activities, including public bodies, and that the distribution of the aid did not take into account the regional characteristics of the agricultural activity or the contribution of farmers to the production of public goods. 
In addition, the vast majority of farmers receive very small amounts of aid. 
The single area payment scheme is a simplified income support scheme for farmers in the Member States who have joined the EU since 2004. 
In 2011, payments amounted to around EUR 5 billion. 
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: O Do the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund effectively contribute to the integration of third-country nationals? 
(No 22/2012) - This special report assessed whether the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund, which are parts of the EU General Programme "Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows" for the period 2007-2013 (SOLID), contributed efficiently to the integration of third-country nationals into the EU, whether the results were supported by efficient monitoring and evaluation of the programme, whether the design of the Funds contributed to the effective implementation of the Funds and whether the systems for implementing integration measures under the SOLID programme were properly managed. 
We found that although positive results could be found for individual audited projects, inappropriate systems had been put in place to measure the success of the Funds. 
The effectiveness of the Funds was reduced by the design of the programme and coordination with other EU funds was insufficient. 
The EU promotes measures for the integration of third-country nationals in EU Member States and increases solidarity through the distribution of financial burdens resulting from the management of common external borders and the implementation of common policies in the field of asylum and immigration. 
Expenditure under the EU budget for SOLID is expected to amount to a total of 4.0 billion euro over the period 2007-2013. 
21 This policy area has been set up to ensure the free movement of persons and to provide citizens with a high level of protection. 
It ranges from the management of the EU's external borders to judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. 
It includes asylum and immigration policies, police cooperation and combating crime. 
Expenditure in this area for the period 2007-2013 is expected to amount to 12.2 billion euro. Refugee camp co-financed by the EU 
22 RUBRIK OF FINANCIAL COMMITTEE - THE EU AS GLOBAL PARTNER The EU's external relations activities focus on: Enlargement, stability, security and prosperity in their neighbourhood, active support for sustainable development at international level, promoting global policy "governance" and ensuring strategic and civil security. 
For the period 2007-2013, the EU has allocated EUR 55.9 billion, i.e. 5.7 % of its total planned expenditure, to these objectives. 
Expenditure is mainly managed directly by the Commission through its Headquarters or Delegations. 
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: O European Union Development Assistance Effectiveness for Food Security in Sub-Saharan Africa (No 1/2012) - This special report examined the effectiveness of EU food security development assistance in sub-Saharan Africa by analysing whether EU development assistance for food security is relevant to countries' needs and priorities and whether EU action has been effective. 
The audit focused on EU direct development assistance for the three pillars of food security, namely food availability, access to food and balanced nutrition. 
The Court concluded that EU development aid for food security is predominantly effective in sub-Saharan Africa and makes an important contribution to achieving food security. 
However, the Commission did not take sufficient account of the possibilities for EU support to other countries also affected by chronic food insecurity and did not give the food aspect an adequate priority. 
Food security is a major and persistent problem in sub-Saharan Africa, where 30 % of the population is affected by hunger. 
Over the period 2002-2010, the EU financed food security measures in this region from the European Development Fund (EDF) totalling more than 3.2 billion euros. o The Common RELEX Information System (CRIS) (No 5/2012) - This special report examined whether CRIS had been designed to effectively meet the needs of the Commission and whether the information it provided was reliable. 
The audit included a review of the CRIS documentation available to the Commission and the audit of the data contained in CRIS. 
We concluded that CRIS was largely effective in meeting the Commission's need for information on external actions. 
However, after ten years of development, it still has weaknesses. 
CRIS is the information system set up by the Commission to support the management of external actions. 
The functions of the system have been continuously expanded since its commissioning in 2002. 
It is now the main reference information system for the management and documentation of external actions, including its reporting, and is financed from both the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF). 
O European Union Aid to the Turkish Cypriot Community (No 6/2012) - This special report examined whether the Commission developed an assistance programme that was in line with the objectives of the instrument, whether appropriate implementation modalities were established and whether the individual projects achieved their respective deliverables. 
The purpose of the audit was not to assess whether the programme had contributed to achieving the political objective of reunification. 
We found that the programme met its objectives as a financial support instrument for the Turkish Cypriot community and that, despite considerable constraints, it had generally put in place appropriate arrangements. 
Some results have already been achieved, but their sustainability is often questionable and the programme's most comprehensive project could not be built. 
About one third of this amount was examined by the Court using our sample of contracts. o European Union development aid for drinking water and basic sanitation in sub-Saharan Africa (No 13/2012) - This special report examined whether the Commission had managed EU development assistance to improve drinking water and basic sanitation in sub-Saharan Africa in order to achieve effective and sustainable results. 
We found that EU support improved access to drinking water and basic sanitation. 
On the other hand, the needs of the beneficiaries for less than half of the audited projects have been satisfactorily met and the benefits will only be of stock if it is possible to secure non-tax-based revenue. 
Improvements in water and sanitation are crucial for achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 
The supply of clean drinking water and sanitation contributes to economic growth and poverty reduction. 
EU water and sanitation expenditure in the sub-Saharan region for the period 2001-2010 amounted to approximately EUR 1.0 billion; as funding is provided for water and sanitation, but also in other areas of assistance, the Commission has overall allocated a higher amount. 
23 Waterkiosk in Jigawa State, Nigeria 
24 RUBRIK OF FINANCIAL COMMUNITY - THE EU AS GLOBAL PARTNER o Contribution of the European Development Fund (EDF) to a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa (No 17/2012) - This special report examines whether the EDF has made an effective contribution to the sustainability of the road network in sub-Saharan Africa, whether the EDF-supported road infrastructure is sustainable and whether the sustainability of road infrastructure has been effectively promoted by the Commission. 
The audit focused on the technical, financial and institutional sustainability of road infrastructure. 48 programmes have been examined which have been supported since 1995 under the eighth, ninth and tenth EDFs in six partner countries. 
The Court concluded that the Commission's support for a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa is conditionally effective. 
The partner countries visited by the Court do not make sufficient efforts to ensure the sustainability of road infrastructure, which affects roads to varying degrees of premature wear. 
Roads and other transport infrastructures are essential for regional integration, economic growth, social development, effective public administration and security. 
In sub-Saharan Africa, road transport is the main mode of transport for passenger and freight transport, accounting for more than 80 % of the total trade in goods and services, with transport needs increasing rapidly. 
The EU had committed some EUR 7.4 billion of EDF funding in this region over the period 1995-2011. o European Union Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo (No 18/2012) (see "Complete performance audit"). 
Control of a road in Tanzania 
The Kosovo police and EULEX on the border patrol in Kosovo (c) EULEX, 2011, Photo by Enisa Kasemi In the context of our review of EU rule of law assistance to Kosovo, the Court highlighted for the first time a Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) mission. 
Kosovo is the world's largest per capita recipient of EU financial assistance and the site of the largest civilian crisis management operation ever launched by the Union (EULEX). 
Our Special Report No 18/2012 dealt with the effectiveness of EU assistance to Kosovo in the area of the rule of law. 
The audit focused on the four police, judiciary, customs and anti-corruption sectors. 
We also examined coordination with other donors and the implementation of EULEX. 
The examination of such a complex area was a challenge. 
Four audit visits were carried out in Kosovo. 
Officials from EULEX and the European Commission were interviewed as well as local officials, representatives of the international donor community and civil society organisations. 
The auditors' team examined projects of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and Stability Instrument projects, as well as monitoring, guidance and advice (MMA) measures implemented by EULEX. 
Meetings were held in Brussels with the Commission, the European External Action Service, the Council Secretariat and NATO. 
In addition, a panel of experts supported the Court. 
We found that EU assistance was not sufficiently effective. 
Although the EU has contributed to capacity building, in particular in the field of customs, the success of assistance in the field of police and justice has been modest. 
The level of organised crime and corruption in Kosovo remains high. 
The judiciary continues to suffer from political influence, inefficiency and lack of transparency and enforcement. 
The limited ability to protect important witnesses within Kosovo and the difficulty of relocating witnesses abroad are significant shortcomings. 
In the words of Gijs de Vries, the ECA member responsible for the report, the Kosovo authorities do not attach sufficient priority to the rule of law and EU assistance should be more effective. 
Francisco de Miguel Rodriguez, head of the audit team, says there is no other place in the world like Kosovo, where so many international donors could be found to provide capacity building in such a small area. 
The Court concluded that EU coordination mechanisms, including coordination with the international community, are in need of improvement. 
Unlike the rest of the Western Balkans, the incentive for possible EU accession in the case of Kosovo is jeopardised by the lack of a common EU position on its independence. 
In terms of communication, this examination took new paths. 
This was the Court's most cited report in 2012: To him, more than 130 articles appeared in print and electronic media. 
In addition, a video was published on the Court's website which summarised the report. 
This was a premiere for the court, reflecting his ambition to reach a wider audience. 
The European Commission and the European External Action Service have accepted the Court's conclusions and recommendations. 
The report was presented to the European Parliament and Council Working Groups. 
Given the importance of its findings, the British House of Lords has decided to deal with the report in detail. 
26 ORGANE, AGENTURES AND SOCIAL INSTRUCTIONS OF THE EU In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: The administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes expenditure on staff (salaries and pensions) as well as on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology. 
The total expenditure for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 55.9 billion, or 5.7 % of the total EU budget. o Effective measures to develop staff at the European Commission (No 10/2012) - This special report examined whether the Commission adapted the evolution of its staff to the needs of the organisation, provided opportunities for its staff development, created an environment that motivated staff to develop their skills and apply them in the workplace. 
The Commission's annual budget for external trainers and teaching material amounted to EUR 26.6 million in 2010. The annual investment in learning and development in 2010 also included 230 000 days of staff to participate in training activities and an equivalent of 310 staff for the management and implementation of training and career development activities. o Have the procedures for producing reliable and credible European statistics improved by the Commission and Eurostat? 
(No 12/2012) - This special report assessed whether the procedures for producing reliable and credible statistics have been improved by the Commission and Eurostat. 
Improvements are directly linked to compliance with the European Statistics Code of Conduct, which sets standards for the development, production and dissemination of statistics, and to the implementation of the European statistical programme. 
There was no assessment of the reliability of specific statistical results. 
We found that the Commission and Eurostat have not yet achieved the full application of the European Statistics Code of Conduct and that Eurostat had not designed the European statistical programme 2008-2012 as an effective planning, monitoring and accountability tool. 
Reliable and credible statistics are crucial for the performance of the tasks entrusted to the European Union. 
Statistics are needed in almost all areas to formulate, apply, monitor and evaluate the tasks and objectives set out in the Treaties. They are also needed for the collection and allocation of EU funds. 
European policy decisions are increasingly based on statistics, and statistical indicators are increasingly used as a trigger for policy decisions or sanctions. o Treatment of conflicts of interest in selected EU agencies (No 15/2012) - This special report assessed whether the selected agencies adequately handled conflicts of interest, whether appropriate policy guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflict of interest situations exist, and whether the selected agencies have adequately implemented their policy guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflict of interest situations. 
The audit assessed the guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflict of interest situations in the case of four selected agencies that make influential decisions affecting the safety and health of consumers. 
The Court concluded that the selected EU agencies did not adequately manage conflicts of interest. 
Follow-up RECOMMENDATIONS o Report 2011 on the follow-up of the Special Reports of the European Court of Auditors (No 19/2012) - This report analysed the extent to which the recommendations made by the Court in seven selected special reports from 2003-2009 have been implemented by the Commission. 
The follow-up special reports covered three budgetary areas, namely agriculture, energy and external action. 
The Court assessed the measures taken by the Commission in response to the Court's recommendations. 
The audit showed that the recommendations were taken into account: The Commission fully implemented 29 % of the recommendations analysed, 49 % were mostly implemented, 20 % partially implemented and 2 % were not implemented. 
Further details on the follow-up actions following the Court's recommendations can be found on page 39. 
27 In 2012, the Court published a new type of report, namely a special report, which followed up the implementation of the recommendations made in previous special reports. 
European COURT OF AUDITORS EN 2011 REPORT ON THE FOLLOW-UP OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF Auditors' SPECIAL REPORTS Special Reports No 19 2012 ISSN 1831-0834 
28 IN YEAR 2012 OPINIONS AND Position Papers The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management through its opinions on proposals for new or amended legal acts with financial implications. 
These opinions are delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and used by the legislators - European Parliament and Council - in their work. 
The opinions are available on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in all the official languages of the EU. 
29 OPINION No 1/2012 TO THE COMMISSION LEGISLATIVORABILITY FOR THE REFORM OF AGRARPOLICY from 2014 The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is to be reformed by 2013. 
In October 2011, the Commission published a proposal setting out the main elements of a legal framework for the CAP for the period 2014-2020. 
The new legal framework proposed to maintain the current two-pillar structure of the CAP and thus the two existing European financial instruments of agricultural policy, namely the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). 
We recognised the Commission's efforts to simplify the CAP provisions (e.g. waiving the different implementation models for the current single payment scheme, introducing a simplified scheme for small farmers). 
Through its proposals, the Commission has received a number of observations from Parliament, the Council and the Court. 
Nevertheless, the legislative proposals remain essentially focused on expenditure and their control, thus continuing to comply with legislation on performance, contrary to the stated intention. 
We took note of the Commission's objective of preferentially disbursing CAP aid to "active farmers" and its attempt to achieve a more balanced distribution of direct payments among beneficiaries. 
However, the Court doubted that the proposed measures could be implemented effectively without imposing excessive administrative burden on managing authorities and farmers. 
In his view, the solution may consist of a combination of general principles laid down in the Regulation and systematic monitoring and expert monitoring of their implementation by the Commission. 
It noted that the so-called 'coverage' (reduction of aid exceeding a certain ceiling) will have a limited impact on the redistribution of the aid. 
This opinion had a significant impact on the reflections on the future of the CAP. 
More than 2,000 articles have been published on this topic in the media. 
The Court has been invited by numerous NGOs, organisers of agricultural fairs and other industry forums to present the opinion to the respective audience. The European Parliament invites representatives of the Court to participate in working groups on this subject. 
Members of the European Parliament have included most of the recommendations in their own proposals for legislative amendments. 
The legislative package will be voted after the adoption of the Multiannual Financial Framework. 
30 SUMMARY WITH OTHER OVEREST Audit Institutions The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) mainly in the following bodies: O Contact Committee of the SAIs of EU Member States; O Network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; O international organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its European Regional Group (EUROSAI). 
Meeting of EU Liaison Officers in Rome, April 2012 Meeting of the INTOSAI Subcommittee on Development of Expertise in Luxembourg, September 2011 
31 According to the EU Treaty, the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies cooperate with confidence while respecting their independence. 
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of EU Member States within the Contact Committee. 
In the Contact Committee, the Presidents of the EU-ORKB and the Court meet once a year. 
Working groups and task forces have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices. 
In 2012, the Court supported the Chair-in-Office of the Contact Committee (ORKB of Portugal) in preparing and holding the 2012 annual meeting held in Estoril, Portugal, on 18 and 19 October 2012. 
The meeting had two main topics, namely the challenges for the SAIs in preparing for the next EU financial framework (2014-2020), as well as recent developments in responses to the financial crisis and the SAIs' experience with appropriate audits. 
At the meeting, the Contact Committee decided to set up a Task Force to analyse the tasks and role of SAIs, taking into account recent developments in the EU in building a new economic, budgetary and financial architecture and the potential impact on SAIs. 
The Court is a member of this Task Force, which is expected to report to the Contact Committee in 2013. 
We also provided administrative support to the Contact Committee in 2012 and actively participated in the various working groups and networks. 
In 2012, the Court also supported the initiative of the SAIs of the euro area with a view to ensuring adequate external public financial control of the European Stability Mechanism. 
A common position on a proposal for the Statute concerning Article 30 of the Treaty establishing the Mechanism was submitted to the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union in April 2012. 
The final version of the Statutes is broadly in line with this common position with regard to the Audit Committee. 
32 NETC OF THE OVEREST Audit Institutions of the Supervisors and the POTENCIAL Surveillance Authorities The Court cooperates with the SAIs of the Candidate Countries and the potential candidate countries. 
One of the most important tools for cooperation is the network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries1 with its organisational structure comparable to the Contact Committee. 
This network includes regular meetings of the SAI presidents and liaison officers, as well as working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits. 
In 2012, the Court supported the implementation of the work programme, which is part of the Istanbul Memorandum of Understanding adopted at the meeting of the Presidents of the Network in March 2011. 
The President of the Court took part in the ceremony on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the Turkish Court of Auditors and paid an official visit to the Croatian Court of Auditors. 
In 2012, the Court continued its active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI. 
In 2012, the Court continued to contribute to Objective 1 - Technical Standards - of INTOSAI as a member of the Subcommittee for Auditing the Accounts, the Subcommittee for the Audit of Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Performance Audits; O of the project Quality Control of Audits and the Harmonisation Project. 
On Objective 2 - Strengthening expertise - the Court made the following contributions to INTOSAI: O He supported the Subcommittee for the Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through voluntary peer reviews and organised the fifth session. 
Under Objective 3 - Knowledge sharing - INTOSAI has been chairing the INTOSAI Working Group on the accountability and auditing of disaster relief since 2008. 
In 2012, the Working Group carried out the following work: O It completed and made available for public discussion the five draft International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI), which constitute the new 5500-5599 series for the guidance on the assessment of disaster relief, and prepared for public discussion a draft INTOSAI Guidelines for Good Governance (INTOSAI GOV) on an integrated framework for financial accountability 1 In February 2013, the network included one candidate country (Croatia), five candidate countries (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and two potential candidate countries (Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina). Disaster relief or humanitarian aid to be made available for public discussion at the beginning of 2013. 
All five ISSAI and INTOSAI GOV will be presented for adoption to the next INTOSAI Congress in 2013. 
In 2012, the Court also took the following measures: O He organised the fourth meeting of the Steering Committee of the INTOSAI Committee on Knowledge Exchange, chaired by the SAI of India, and continued to contribute to the INTOSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment. o He attended the joint meeting of the INTOSAI Working Group on Public Debt and the Global Financial Crisis Task Force - Challenges for the SAIs. 
The Court continued to participate in the IntoSAINT project, a self-assessment for SAI, which is led by the Dutch SAI under the auspices of INTOSAI. 
In 2012, the Court's representatives moderated a week-long workshop on self-assessment of integrity to the Norwegian Court of Auditors. As regards EUROSAI, the Court adopted XXXIX in 2012 (after his appointment as a member of the Presidency). 
The Court o participated in the tenth annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment and contributed to the joint assessment on adaptation to climate change presented by the Court on behalf of the Working Group at the 2012 meeting of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC); O participated in the first meeting of the EUROSAI Task Force on Audit and Ethics and participated in the activities of the Task Force. 
In the context of the joint conferences of the INTOSAI Regional Working Groups, the Court actively participated in the VII. EUROSAI Conference and the Latin American and Caribbean Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (OLACEFS). This conference focused on the role of SAIs in promoting good governance in the public sector. 
33 4th meeting of the Steering Committee of the INTOSAI Committee for Knowledge Exchange in Luxembourg, September 2012 
34 OUR MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK: A TRATEGY FOR THE TIME 2013-2017 The Court adopted and published its strategy for the period 2013-2017 in 2012. 
The Court's objective for this period is to maximise the value of the Court's contribution to the EU's public accountability. 
The main priorities for achieving this objective are: O Orientation of the Court's products towards improving the EU accountability; O Cooperation with other actors to strengthen the Court's contribution to the EU accounting obligation; O Further development as a professional audit body; O optimal use of the farm's existing knowledge, expertise and expertise; O Evidence of the Court's performance and the performance of its accountability. 
The Court will use its unique powers and perspective, as well as its knowledge, expertise and partnerships built up during the 35 years of its existence, to make a positive contribution to future developments in the field of EU policy and financial management; O to support the other parties involved in the accountability process at EU level in identifying the risks to EU accountability and making easier use of audit results; strengthen its professionalism by contributing to the development and application of new audit standards and best practices; O further streamline the processes for drawing up its reports and opinions; O to improve its performance and the accountability framework in line with its obligations as an EU institution and SAI; O to implement budgetary discipline measures in accordance with the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020, including any necessary staffing cuts during the period of application of this strategy. 
For the period 2013-2017, the Court will focus on the following aspects of our reports, opinions and comments: O Strengthen public accountability and audit arrangements; O Improving financial management and reporting on the implementation of the EU budget and its impact; O Improved design of EU policies and spending programmes. 
In accordance with the contract, the term of office of the members of the Court is six years and a reappointment is possible. 
In 2012, five new members of the Court were appointed: Henrik Otbo (Denmark), Pietro Russo (Italy), Ville Itälä (Finland), Kevin Cardiff (Ireland) and Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain). 
In February 2012, the Court adopted a new Code of Conduct for Members, taking into account the changes that have occurred since the previous Code was adopted eight years ago. 
In addition, the Court now publishes the declarations of interest of its members on its website, which significantly contributes to transparency. 35 
36 MESSDATA FOR PERFORMANCE OF THE HOUSE OF THE STRATEGY 2009-2012 In 2008, the Court published its first strategy. 
This strategy was applicable for the period 2009-2012 and aimed to maximise the impact of the Court's audits and to increase efficiency through the best use of resources. 
Overall, the Court successfully implemented its 2009-2012 strategy. 
The Court's recommendations were largely accepted: According to the Commission, around half of the recommendations made in 2011 were implemented. The main institutional addressees of the Court are satisfied with its annual and special reports, the quality of which is considered good and improved by external experts. In addition, efficiency gains allowed us to increase the number of staff in the audit chambers by 60 (501 in 2008 compared to 564 in 2011) and reduced the number of administrative and translation staff by 40. 
For the 2009-2012 strategy period, we set out a number of key performance indicators for the following purposes: O to inform management of progress in the implementation of the objectives; O to support the decision-making process; O to provide performance-related information to the addressee. 
The key performance indicators are used to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, paying particular attention to the point of view of key addressees and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources. 
Since 2012 was the last year of the strategy period 2009-2012, the results of the key performance indicators will be presented, where available, for every four years. 
The Court will update the key performance indicators to be applied during the 2013-2017 strategy period, so that they reflect its new or revised priorities and demonstrate its performance and accountability as a professional audit body. 
Quality AND ECONOMIC OF THE WORK OF THE HOFES The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and expert reviews. 
By means of a survey, the Court asked the main addressees of our reports (the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and the Council Committee on Budgets) to assess the quality and impact of the 2011 annual reports and the special reports published in 2012. 
The assessment was made on a five-step scale (1 - very poor, 2 - poor, 3 - appropriate, 4 - good, 5 - very good). 
4.5 4.0 3.5 3.9 4.2 4,0 4.2 105 % of the target EUR PARTICULATION OF THE HIGH REPORTS BY THE main addressees 37 2009 2010 2011 2012 Earnings target The result remained stable over the entire period, with a value between 3.9 and 4.2 on the five-stage scale. 
It shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports find their quality and impact on average for 'good'. 
In 2012, the Court achieved a result on this indicator, which was 5 % higher than the target. 
Each year, independent external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports. 
In 2012, the auditors assessed eight special reports as well as the 2011 annual reports. 
They assessed the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high quality" (4). 
3.5 3.0 2.5 3.0 2.8 3.0 106 % of the 2011 2012 target 4.0 3.5 3.0 3.0 FEEDBACK OF THE IMPORTANT PROCESSIONS 3,7 3.7 3.6 97 % of the target 2.8 REPORT OF THE HIGH EXPERTION 2009 3.5 2009 2010 2011 Result target Result target The result was on the four-stage scale between 2.8 and 3.0 and shows that the external experts assess the quality of the Court's reports as "satisfactory". 
The audits provided the Court with valuable information on the quality of its reports and the recommendations of the verifiers are used for further improvements. 
Feedback from the main audit bodies on the quality and impact of the audits carried out by the Court in 2012 was obtained on the basis of a survey and assessment scale modelled on those for the addressee's assessment. 
The result was between 3.5 and 3.7 on the five-stage scale in the period 2009-2012. The results show that the main audit bodies rated the Court's audits as "good" on average. 
Overall, the results of the assessments made between 2009 and 2012 by addressees are positive and show that the Court's main addressees estimate the quality and impact of the reports. 
We use our audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations made in our reports to help improve financial management. 
In order to make changes, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the audited bodies and subsequently implemented. 
The Court therefore measures both parameters. 
100 % 90 % 80 % 94 % 2009 94 % 2010 93 % 2011 Target 98 % 109 % of the 2012 target FROM THE PRESSED STATED RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE HOFES Result The acceptance rate of the Court's recommendations by the audited bodies was between 93 % and 98 % over the period 2009-2012. 
The target set for this indicator has been exceeded each year. 
In 2011, the Court began to systematically monitor the implementation of its recommendations, taking into account that the implementation of some recommendations can take a lot of time because of their scale or complexity. 
According to Commission statistics, 63 % of the nearly 500 recommendations submitted in the period 2009-2012 were implemented at the end of 2012. 
More than half of the recommendations made in 2011 have already been implemented. 
100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 35 % After 1 year 56 % After 2 years 73 % After 3 years 76 % After 4 years RECOMMENDATIONS OF HOFES 39 
The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources on the basis of the extent to which it is able to present reports and audit findings on time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff. 
The Court monitors the efficiency of its reporting process by comparing the number of reports planned for the year to the number of reports adopted and whether these reports have been adopted within the time limits set for this purpose. 
100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 2008 91 % 2009 90 % 2010 83 % 2011 93 % 103 % of the 2012 target 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 73 % 2008 67 % 2009 80 % 2010 Result 75 % 73 % 81 % of the target OF THE HIGH ADOPTED REPORTS RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE REPORT OF THE REGULATION REPORTS REPORTS RESULTS RESULTS target This indicator has been measured since 2008, and in the number of actually adopted reports measured by the number of originally planned reports, the result was between 79 % and 93 %. 
The measurement has shown that most of the annual targets have been met, but that further improvements are possible, especially in the preparation of special reports. 
The punctuality of the reports has also been measured since 2008. 
Performance measurement shall be based on the dates laid down in the legislation for the annual reports and the Special Annual Reports. The corresponding deadlines for the special reports are set out in the relevant planning documents. 
Number OF TERMING REGULATIONS REPORTS OF THE HOF 2011 2012 Target target 
The result ranged from 67 % to 73 % between 2008 and 2012 and remained below the 90 % target set for this indicator. 
The main reasons for this were ambitious planning for the special reports and unpredictable events in the audit process. 
The Court notes that while the accuracy of the planning of performance audits and the efficiency of audit implementation can be further improved, in the period 2008-2012 it has not only succeeded in significantly increasing the number of special reports produced, but also to bring their production time closer to the 18-month target. 
In the period 2008-2012, 85 special reports were adopted (compared to 51 special reports in the period 2003-2007) and the average lead time was reduced from 25 months in 2008 to 20 months in 2012. 
The Court's strategy for the period 2013-2017 includes a new initiative to further streamline reporting with a view to improving the punctuality of reports and efficiency. 
Punctuality OF audit findings The Court uses audit reports to confirm the factual accuracy of the specific audit findings by the audited bodies. 
Audit notifications are therefore an important stage in the audit process. 
According to the Court's internal rules, audit notifications should be drawn up within two months of the relevant audit visit, measuring annually to what extent this deadline has been met. 
70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 54 % 58 % 61 % 90 % of the target 2012 27 % 2008 2009 2010 2011 Outcome PACKAGE OF THE HOFES audit findings 43 % We found that there is a significant need for improvement in the preparation of audit notifications in terms of punctuality. 
When the Court started measurements in 2008, it set two targets for the punctuality of audit notifications, namely an improvement in performance by 10 % per year and ensuring that 80 % of audit notifications are prepared on time at the end of 2012. 
The result for this indicator was between 27 % and 61 % in the period 2008-2012. 
Although performance improved significantly and the annual targets were largely met, the result in 2012 is still below the long-term target of 80 %. 
The Court will continue to strive to achieve even better performance in this area. 41 
42 EXTERNAL OF THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court strives to obtain from its independent auditor an unqualified opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources and discharge from the European Parliament following a favourable recommendation from the Council. 
Unrestricted opinion discharge received discharge EXTERNAL OF THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF THE HOFES After financial years for April 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 We have received an unrestricted opinion each year from the independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the budget. 
In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide the auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training. 
7 6 5 4 3 5,7 6.1 days 4.0 2009 5.2 104 % of the target training days JE PRÜFER 2010 2011 2012 Outcome target target 
Seminar on automatic procedures, January 2012 In the period 2009-2012, one of the Court's auditors accounted for an average of 5.3 days of training per year. 
If the language courses are taken into account, an examiner has an average of 10.6 days of training per year. 
The target set for continuing vocational training has been met every year since 2010. 
Employee satisfaction The Court conducted internal surveys in 2009 and 2012 to measure the satisfaction of its employees. 
Two indicators were derived from this survey, namely the percentage of employees who are generally satisfied with their work and the average level of overall employee satisfaction. 
A scale of 1 to 4 was used, with each value above 2.5 indicating overall satisfaction. 
With YOUR WORKING WITH YOUR WORKING MEMBERS OF THE HIGH GRAD OF MEMBERITY INCLUDED 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 4 86 % 86 % 3 2,8 2.8 2009 2012 Result 2009 2012 Result 2009 2012 Result These two surveys were very similar as a result: 86 % of employees were generally satisfied with their work, and the overall level of employee satisfaction was 2.8. 
The results can therefore be considered good. 
1 43 44 SUPPORT OF audit activities Human resources Personnel allocation The main capital of the Court is its staff. 
At 31. In December 2012, the Court's staff was 887 (officials and temporary staff but excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees). 
Of these, 573 are employed in examination chambers (including 123 staff in members' cabinets). 
With a view to achieving the best possible use of resources, all activities have once again explored and implemented ways of improving efficiency by simplifying procedures. 
Posts released through efficiency gains outside the audit area were, where possible, transferred to the Audit Service and the services of the President. 
As a result, posts in the audit area have increased by 14.4 % since 2008, while the total authorised posts to the Court have only increased by 3.5 %. 
Output increased significantly over the same period (see page 9). 
45 Distribution of the Court's posts on 31. December 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Examination 501 525 557 564 573 Translation 163 163 151 148 143 Administration 173 171 157 148 139 Services of the President 20 21 24 27 32 INCLUDED 857 880 889 887 SETTINGS The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment is reflected in the Court's output. 
In addition, for a limited number of graduates, the Court has a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment for a limited number of graduates. 
After a continuous increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now reached an almost balanced proportion of men and women among its employees. 
At the end of 2012, the Court adopted an Action Plan on Equal Opportunities aimed at achieving a more balanced proportion of men and women at all levels of the institution. 
In 2012, the Court hired 78 employees: 50 officials, 11 temporary staff and 17 contract staff. 
The number of vacant posts has been close to 3 % since 2011 (on 31. 28 posts were vacant in December 2012). 
46 The following graphs show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31. December 2012 can be seen. 
The proportion of women at AD level reached the 40 % mark in 2012 and is likely to continue to increase in the future, as 46 % of the staff in the initial grades AD5 to AD8 are women after the last recruitment waves. 
Of the 69 directors and heads of unit, 21 (30 %) are women, which corresponds to developments in recent years. 
Most of them are employed by the Translation Directorate and the administrative services. 
Assistants - Secretaries (function group AST) 2011 2012 2012 Age profile Men 33 % 33 % Women 67 % 67 % Directors and Heads of Unit Auditors - Administrative Boards (function group AD) Men 2011 72 % 2012 70 % women 28 % 30 % men 61 % 60 % women 39 % 40 % The age profile of 31 December 2012 In December 2012 active staff showed that 60 % of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger. 
20-24 0.1 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 One third of directors and heads of unit are 55 years old or older. 
The profession of examiner requires continuous training in order to be able to keep up with new developments and acquire new skills. 
In addition, due to the specific circumstances of the Court's audit environment, auditors need good foreign language skills. 
In 2012, the Court's staff (auditors and other staff) completed an average of 8 days of professional training (9.3 days in 2011). 
Language courses accounted for 52 % of the total number of training days (compared to 54 % in 2011). 
Translation is an audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and achieve its communication objectives. 
In 2012, the translation volume reached a peak of 158 861 pages, which was 11 % higher than in 2011. 
More than 99 % of translations were completed on time. 
Information technology makes a decisive contribution to the effectiveness and efficiency of the Court. 
2012 was a successful year: O In the area of knowledge management, the first version of the Court's new audit sub-support instrument (ASSYST2) was set up and a pilot phase was launched in an audit unit. 
In addition, a first community of practice on financial crisis was supported by the provision of information technology and content. In 2012, improvements in the content of training activities were made and new courses were developed in order to meet the priorities in the field of testing. 
In addition, the establishment of a new paperless system and the development of eLearning made it possible to manage training more efficiently. 
Translation INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The Court's Directorate for Translation also provided linguistic assistance to auditors during audits in the Member States and in the subsequent stages of the drafting of audit reports. 
It also supported INTOSAI working groups and covered other specific needs related to the Court's audit work. o The automation of administrative processes has been actively continued through the introduction of ECAdemy to support the Court's training policy, by decentralising time recording, saving human resources, and by fully digitising the personnel files. o Great success was the move of the Court's data centre to the new K3 building. 
The commissioning of the new building was also accompanied by a new telephone system and a new data network. 47 
48 ADOPTION AND INFRASTRUCTURE In 2012, the Directorate for Finance and Support Services continued to provide: it provided adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and achieve its strategic objectives and (b) ensured that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all our activities. 
In order to provide the farm's staff with a safe, comfortable and ergonomic working environment and to ensure that all the staff of the farm are working at one location, a second extension building was commissioned in 2003. 
The farm took off the building in November 2012 and the first removals took place before the end of the year. 
In 2012, the Directorate made its activities even more efficient and economical. 
In October 2012, the Court's office in Brussels was moved to another location. 
It is now located in the MTS (Montoyer-Science) building on Rue Montoyer 30/Rue de la Science in Brussels. 
The K3 building has been completed on time, in accordance with the quality rules and within the financial framework. 
Additional work will be carried out in 2013 in the other buildings of the Court. 
Financial information The Court is financed from the general budget of the European Union. 
The Court's budget accounts for around 0.1 % of total EU expenditure and 1.72 % of total administrative expenditure. 
Financial year 2012 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution* 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions Title 1 in total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure Final commitments Use of commitments in % payment in EUR 1 000 49 EXPERIENCE OF THE HOUSE PLAN 2012 14 592 92 335 4 148 3 802 2 972 117 849 13 785 89 015 3 810 3 512 2 879 113 001 10 703 9 508 963 612 685 1 843 24 344 137 345 94 % 96 % 92 % 92 % 97 % 96 % 99 % 100 % 98 % 98 % 86 % 95 % 99 % 96 % 13 557 88 836 3 758 2 604 2 148 110 903 7 009 424 690 294 499 748 13 764 124 667 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 20 - Building 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and ancillary costs 23 - Current operating expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Title 2 of the European Court of Auditors a total of 10 741 9 508 1 017 625 793 1 944 24 628 142 477 * This chapter covers the salaries and allowances, mission expenses and training expenses of current members, as well as transitional allowances for former members and pensions. 
50 In 2012, the implementation rate of the total budget available was 96 %. 
For Title 1, this rate is 96 %, the lowest in Chapter 14 (Other staff and external services) and Article 162 (Missions) of Chapter 16 (Other expenditure for Members and staff of the institution) (92 %). 
For Title 2, the average execution rate is 99 %. 
The amount of payments to be charged to Chapter 20 (Buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the second extension of the Court (K3 building). 
The fourth financing tranche of EUR 3 million for this project was entered in the 2012 budget. This amount was committed and partially disbursed in 2012. 
The remainder of the budget for the K3 building was transferred to 2013 and is intended to finance the contracts awarded to construction companies by the project manager on behalf of the Court. 
Construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of EUR 79 million, to be financed in five consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and 6 million euros distributed over 2012 and 2013. 
Budget 2013 Budget 2013 saw a slight increase of 0.2 % in the 2013 budget compared to 2012. 
Budget Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution* 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 14 566 97 772 4 176 3 700 2 728 122 942 827 719 830 413 768 2 284 19 819 142 761 14 592 96 487 4 173 3 802 2 682 121 736 941 6 501 825 793 2 144 20 741 142 477 2013 in EUR 1 000 2012 in EUR 1 000 51 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure for members and staff of Title 2: Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure 20 - Building 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and related costs 23 - Current operating expenditure Title 1 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Total information and publications of the European Court of Auditors Title 2 * This chapter covers the salaries and allowances, travel expenses and training expenses of the current members, as well as transitional allowances for former members and pensions. 
The Court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor. 
This is an important example of the fact that the Court applies to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as for the bodies it audits. 
The audit opinion of the auditor - PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL - on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 was published in October 20122. 
Audit Opinions OF THE UNABILITY CONTROL - HAUSHALTSYHR 2011 "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the European Court of Auditors' assets and financial position as at 31. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23. December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the above-mentioned Council Regulation and the European Union accounting rules (EC accounting rules)." on the use of resources AND the control procedures "In our work steps described in this report, we did not have the necessary assurance that the financial operations were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." (a) 2 the appropriations allocated to the Court were not used for the intended purposes and 2 OJ. 
C 315 of 18.10.2012. 
53 REQUIREMENT OF THE APPLICATION OF THE DECISION The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, o that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable assurance that - the funds allocated for the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that - the control procedures put in place provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of allegations of fraud or suspicion of fraud. 
This reasonable assurance is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as the reports and declarations of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years. 
Done at Luxembourg, 7 March 2013 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 
54 35 YEARS IN THE SERVICE OF A Better FUNCTION OF THE EU The European Court of Auditors has been the external auditor of the EU for 35 years. It shall continuously add value to the financial management of the Union and ensure public accountability for the use of taxpayers' money. 
The Court was founded at a time when the European Community (the forerunner of the European Union) moved towards more democracy and became more accountable to its citizens. 
Two particularly important steps were the enlargement of the European Parliament's budgetary control powers and the full financing of the European Community budget from its own resources. 
The Community recognised that it needed an independent external auditor who assisted Parliament and the Council in ensuring democratic control of finances. 
Heinrich Aigner, Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, who since 1973 strongly supported an external audit body at Community level, launched the initiative which led to the establishment of the European Court of Auditors by the Treaty of Brussels on 22 July 1975. 
The Court started its operations in October 1977, with its head office in Luxembourg. 
Hans Kutscher, then President of the Court, recognised the Court as a financial conscience of the Community. 
With the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty on 1 November 1993, the Court obtained the status of a fully-fledged European institution, thus guaranteeing its independence and authority as an equivalent body. 
The Maastricht Treaty also introduced what is now a core product of the Court, namely the Declaration of Assurance (DAS) on the EU accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts. 
The Court's role was strengthened with the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam on 1 May 1999, which strengthened the Court's independence and extended its audit powers to other policy areas. 
The Nice Treaty of 1 February 2003 confirmed the principle that the Court should be a member of each Member State. In addition, the importance of the Court's cooperation with national audit bodies has been emphasised and the Court has been given the opportunity to establish a chamber structure. 
Since its establishment, the Court has consistently promoted cooperation with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States in the audit of EU funds, in particular through its participation in the Contact Committee of the EU-ORKB Presidents. 
In its role as SAI, the Court has also sought to help shape forward developments in public sector audit by working with other SAIs in the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its EUROSAI regional group to define technical standards and best practices. 
The Court recognised early on the peer review process as a tool for developing and disseminating best practices within the SAI Community. 
During its 35th anniversary, the Court sought to contribute to the improvement of EU financial management by presenting high-quality products reflecting the EU's developments and the changing needs of its addressees. 
Over the past 35 years, the EU has added new Member States, gained new powers and created new bodies at EU level, all of which had to be taken into account by the Court in its work. 
As a result, the Court's output increased significantly compared to the two opinions we issued in the first year of its activity. 
The Court's products today include annual reports, special reports, statements of assurance, special annual reports, opinions and position papers. 
The number of outputs increased to 87 publications in 2012. 
For several years, the Court has given a higher priority to the audit of the results achieved in the implementation of EU policies and the provision of indications to improve profitability. 
Like the EU, the Court has developed further. 
Based on nine members and 120 employees in 1977, the Court now has 27 members and almost 900 employees. 
Like the Union itself, the Court's success depends on close cooperation between members and staff from all European countries. 
The Court is proud that since 1977 it has been able to build a dedicated, professional and experienced staff that is committed to protecting the financial interests of citizens. 
In the coming years, the Court will devote itself to contributing to improving accountability for the funds allocated to citizens to meet the objectives. 
55 Members of the Court's First College, November 1977 
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2012 Luxembourg: Office for Publications of the European Union 2013-55 pp. - 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 WHERE I HAVE THE EU OPENINGS? Free publications: • via the EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • to the Representations and Delegations of the European Union. 
QJ-AA-13-001-EN-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu http://eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorsECA EUauditorsECA ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 
European CONSTRUCTION HOUSE DE 2014 Activity report 
European APARTMENT HOUSE 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBURG Tel. + 352 4398-1 E-mail: eca-info@eca.europa.eu Internet: http://eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA Youtube: EUauditorsECA Numerous further information on the European Union is available via Internet, Server Europe (http://europa.eu). 
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2015 Print ISBN 978-92-872-2134-6 ISSN 1684-0666 doi:10.2865/062938 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-C PDF ISBN 978-92-872-2130-8 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/751281 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-N EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-2123-0 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/14686 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-E (c) European Union, 2015 Printed in Luxembourg 
In memory of our colleague Henrik Otbo, Member of the Court, who died unexpectedly on 1 February 2015 Henrik Otbo was born in 1949 and had Danish citizenship. 
From 1995 to 2012, he was President of the Danish Court of Auditors and, since 1 March 2012, Member of the European Court of Auditors in the CEADChamber("Coordination, Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development") with special responsibility foraudit development and evaluation. 
His lifelong commitment to the service of public financial control, in particular his leading role in the creation of international standards for Supreme Audit Institutions as Chair of the Committee on TechnicalStandards of INTOSAI, were particularly valuable to the Court, its former colleagues at the Danish Court of Auditors and the audit sector as a whole. 
01 European Court of Auditors 02 Mandate The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing EU financesunderthe Treaty. 
As an EU external auditor, he contributes to improving EU financialmanagement, promotes accountability and transparency, and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens. 
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, characterised by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism and the quality and impact of its work,providing valuable support to its audience in order to improve EU financial management. 
Values Independence, integrity and impartiality Professionalism Value Excellence and efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its employees. 
Impartial audit, which, while taking into account the positions of the Court's addressees, rejects any form of influencing byinstructions or external pressure. 
Maintaining an exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work. 
Active participation in the further development ofpublic financial control at EU and worldwide level. 
Preparation of relevant and timely high quality reports based on sound findings and evidence,taking into account the concerns of its adrenaline and containing important and forward-looking statements. 
To contribute to an effective improvement of the EU financial management and to contribute to strengthening theaccounting obligation for the EUfinancial management. 
Promoting teamspirit through effective communication. 
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4-5 Preface of the President 6 2014 at a glance 6 Our activities 6 Our management 7-43 Our activities 7-36 audit reports and other products 37-38 Relations with addressees 39-41 Cooperation with other Supreme Audit Institutions 42-43 Important events 44-50 Our management 44-46 The College of the Court 47-50 Measurement of the Court's performance 51-59 Assistance to audit activities 51-54 Human Resources 55-56 Support services 57-58 Financial information 59 Audit and accountability 60 Statement of the authorising officer by delegation 
Foreword by President 04 Dear reader, 2014 was a year of profound change for the EU and its finances. 
The EU entrusted the European Central Bank with responsibility to supervise the large banks in theeuroarea. 
It was the first year of the new multiannualfinancial framework relevant tothe implementation of the EU budget for the period 2014-2020. 
Also of particular importance were the re-election of Members of the European Parliament and the renewal of top positions in the Council and the European Commission. The European Court of Auditors (ECA) also welcomed six new members. 
In 2014, our institution produced 91 reports, comments and other products - more than ever before. 
They are the result of our audits ofaccounting,complianceaudits andprofitability audits, including auditsfalling within the scope of our new responsibilities in terms of fiscal and economic governance. 
They contain numerous important findings, conclusions and recommendations on improving the EU's financial management and accountability during the 2014-2020 programming period. 
Some of its key statements can befound in the present annual activity report. 
On the basis of our audit experience,we also aim to provide our addressees with as much insight as possible on the key issues facing the EU in the financial and implementation of its policies. 
To this end - and as a contribution to thisperiod of innovation - we introduced a new product in 2014, the so-called "Landscape analyses". 
In addition, at the request of the European Parliament, we have published an overview of the resultsofour accounting and compliance auditsin the agricultural andcohesion sectorsof the period 2009 -2013. 
The Court is also committed to working with its addressees to ensure that the addressees can make the most of the results of their work. 
In 2014, the Court appointed a member responsible for institutional relations and a spokesperson. 
It also organised a number of events to provide anopportunity to exchange views with high-level stakeholders from the EU and the Member States. 
This conference brought together a large number of people in charge of managing and controllingEUfunds, including Members of the European Parliament, the European Commission, SupremeAudit Institutions and representatives of science. 
The Vice- President of the European Parliament andformer EU Commissioner Olli Rehn gave an introductory speech. 
Particular attention should also be paid to the visit of a delegation of Members of the Court to Lithuania, where meetings were held with Members of Parliament, members of the Government and representatives of the National Court of Auditors and the Lithuanian Central Bank. 
President's foreword 05 Throughout the year, our 2013-2017strategy has pioneered our work and the steps taken to reform our institution. 
In 2014, we reduced the average time needed to prepare our special reports, and we reduced the number of our staff, as required by an interinstitutional agreement. 
We also set up the fundamen for future efficiencyand effectiveness gains by introducing an internal reform project. 
This project coordinates the implementation of the recommendations of internal working groups as well as the recommendations from the independent external peer review on the practice of our performance audit and from theEuropean Parliament's report on the future role of the Court. 
The Court is based in Luxembourg, butour teams travel as part of their work to obtain audit evidence wherever EUfunds are spent. 
This activity report provides an overview of the audit visits and the firstreports by us. 
A special highlight will be given to our assessment oftheEU support for European airport infrastructure. 
It is an illustrative example ofour performance audits to assess the impact and added value of EUfundingand shows the Court's efforts to fulfil its mission. 
In addition, this audit demonstrates the commitment and professionalismof the Court's partners, whose expertise and commitment can always be relied upon by the Court and the citizens in whose interests it acts. 
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 
2014 at a glance 06 Our activities • Annual reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds for the financial year 2013. • 51 specific annual reports onthe various agencies, decentralised bodies and businesses of the EU for the2013 budget and two summary reports. • 24 special reports oncertain budgeting or management issues ranging from European banking supervision to EU-fundedairport infrastructures. • Seven opinions and otherstatements accompanied by contributions on financialmanagement issues, from reforming the EU's own resources system to an investigation into possiblesavings by merging the European Parliament's activities in a single place. • Twolandscape analyses: one on the challenges of accountabilityand public financial control in the EU and another on the risks to the EU'sfinancialmanagement. • Organisation of a high-level conference on accountability and publicfinance control in the EU. • The meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of theSupreme Audit Institutions oftheEU Member States with a focus on strengthening cooperation between the national SAIs and the Court. 
Our management • The Court welcomed six new membersin 2014: Alex Brenninkmeijer, Daničle Lamarque, Nikolaos Milionis, Phil Wynn Owen, Klaus-Heiner Lehne and Oskar Herics. 
The College of Member Statesre -elected Vítor Caldeira as President of the Court for a thirdthree years and appointed Ville Itälä as a memberresponsible for institutionalrelations. • The Court's strategy for the period2013- 2017 gave impetus to changes inorga nisation: The Court introduced an internal reform project aimed at streamlining the audit process and ensuring a more flexible organisation of resources. • Further improving administrative efficiency, based on procedural simplifications and the transfer to the audit ofstaff working in the field ofsupport services. 
An action plan on equal opportunities has also been implemented. 
Farm building in Luxembourg. 
Our activities 07 Audit reports and other products The three main products of the European Courtof Auditors are: • Annual reports - with the results ofits accounts and complianceaudits on the budget of the European Union and on the European Development Fund (EDF). 
In addition, there are separate published specificannual reports on the EU Agencies, Decentralised Entities and Joint Undertakings. • Special reports - which can be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits on specific budgetary areas or management topics. 
These are essentially economic audits. • Opinions - on new or amended acts affecting the financialsituation and other analytical products produced either at the request of another institution or at the Court's own initiative. 
In 2014, the Court produced more products than ever before and also presented new products. 
Many analytical information can still be found on the annual basis. They also provide a comprehensive presentation of the results of our annual accountingandcomplianceaudits. 
In 2014, there was a strongerfocus on performance audits, providingtheEU budgetary authority with additional insights on the quality of the implementation ofthe EU Household Plan. 
In addition to the annual reports, we published for the first time a summary of our audit results on agriculture and cohesion expenditureunder shared management over the period 2009-2013 to provide a multi-annual perspective. 
The important development was a new product called landscape analysis. 
In Landscape-Ana- lysen, information and analysis on central topics are presented based on our expertise in the area of examination. 
In 2014, we published twolandscapeanalyses: The first focuses on the main challenges facing the EU,plus accountability and public financial control; the secondfocuses on the risks to the EU's financial management. 
2012 2013 2014 Annual Reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 Special Annual Reports on EU Agents and Decentralised Bodies 50 50 51 Special Reports 25 19 24 Opinions and other statements 10 6 14 Total 87 77 91 The full version of the individual audit reports, opinions and landscape analyses is available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu)in 23 official EU languages. 
Our activities 08 audit visits in 2014 While most of the audit work takes place at our premises in Luxembourg, our auditors also carry out audit visits tothe authorities of the Member States, other recipients of EUfunds (including at the headquarters of international organisations such as the World Health Organisation in Switzerland) and the EU agencies and bodies. 
The purpose of these visits is to obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EUfunds, as well as from the respective final recipients. 
Our audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the duration of an audit visit is a few days up to two weeks, depending on the type of audit and distance. 
Within the EU, our audit visitsare often carried out in consultation with the SupremeAudit Authorities of the Member States visited. 
The frequency and intensity of audit work inthe individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the type of audit and the results ofthe sample selection. 
The number and duration of audit visits may therefore vary by country and year to year. 
In 2014, the Court's auditors spent 4 915 days of on-the-spot audits in Member States and outside the EU and obtained audit evidence for the annual reports and the selected audit tasks (son-of-the-reports). 
They also spent some time with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU. 
In 2014, our auditors used fewer days for on-siteaudits than in previous years. 
This is due to more efficient working methods and an increasing use of technologies such as the use of videoconferencing. 
The EUauditors used EUauditors to audit installations for maritime transport. 
4 915 days for on-site examinations 
Our activities 09 days on site in 2014 Italy Poland Germany Spain France United Kingdom Portugal Greece Romania Czech Republic Lithuania Austria Sweden Hungary Netherlands Slovakia Denmark Latvia Bulgaria Belgium Finland Ireland Croatia Slovenia Estonia Malta Cyprus Luxembourg Rwanda India Norway United States Algeria Cambodia Morocco Seychelles South Africa Switzerland Zambia Côte d'Ivoire Mozambique Democratic Republic of Congo Fiji Thailand Belize Tunisia Tunisia Georgia Georgia Lesotho Nigeria Serbia Cameroon Mauritania Afghanistan Israel Senegal Tanzania Madagascar Turkey 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 450 500 
Our activities 10 Annual Report on the implementation oftheEU budget for the financial year 2013 The majority of ourauditson accounting and compliance audits were devoted to the implementation of theEUbudget for 2013. 
The 2013 Annual Report, which emerged from this work, was published on 5 November 2014 and presented to our addressees, including the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU (Economic and Financial Affairs Council), national parliaments and governments, and the media.
The aim of the annual report is to support the European Parliament, the Council and citizens in assessing the quality of the EU'sfinancial management by presenting findings and conclusions. 
The key element of the 2013 annual report is the 20th Annual Statement of Assurance ("DAS") on the reliability of the EUaccountsand the regularity of the underlying transactions. 
That report provided even more information on the profitability of EU spending and on the Commission's performance reporting. 
Estimated level of error for theEUbudget: 4.7 % President Caldeira handed over the 2013 annual report to the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz. 
Our activities 11 The key statements of the 2013 Annual Report ? The Court delivered an unrestricted opinion on the reliability of the 2013 accounts of the European Union. 
The revenue for 2013 was overall legal and orderly; this also applies to commitments. ? Payments for 2013 were materially affected by errors. 
Therefore, the Court delivered a failed opinion on its legality and regularity. 
This figure is close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8 %) and is consistently above the materiality threshold of 2 %. ? Most error-prone were the two spending areas of regional policy, transport and energy with anestimated error rate of 6.9 % and rural development, environment, fisheries and health with an estimated error rate of 6.7 %. 
In total shared management, the estimated level of error was 5.2 %. ? Overall, the monitoring and control systems examined, with significant divergences between Member States, ensured the regularity of payments in a conditional manner. 
As in 2012, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors before requesting reimbursement from the Commission. ? corrective measures and recoveries by Member States' authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate. 
In the absence of these measures, the estimated overall budget would have been 6.3 %. ? The use of EUfunds in the 2007-2013 programming period wasdue to absorption (use it or loose it) and compliance with legislation rather thangood performance. 
This lack of focus on performance is a key weakness in the way a large part of the EUbudget is built up. 
Our activities 12 Audit of transactions in each EU expenditure area-Results for 2013 Verified amount and most likely error rate 6.9 % 3.6 % 3.1 % 6.7 % 4.6 % 2.6 % Agriculture expenditure area: Market support and direct payments Conclusion Regional policy, transport and energy Employment and social development of rural areas, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 1.0 % materially affected by errors Not materially affected by errors 0 10Mrd.EUR 20Mrd.EUR 30Mrd.EUR 40Mrd.EUR 50Mrd.% Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on the quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) table from the EU Short Information 2013 table; available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu). 
Our activities 13 Agriculture and Cohesion: In parallel to the annual reports, theCourt published a backgrounddocument for the first time - in 23 official EU languages - to provide a multi-annual perspective on the underlying findings of the statement of assurancein the two main expenditureareas of agriculture and cohesion. 
It drew lessons onissues encountered in the past spending period in EU financial management and control, summarised audit results and highlighted challenges related to the new spending period 2014-2020. 
In addition, this overview was in line with the European Parliament's wish to receive country-specific information on shared management. The core statements: ? In addition to direct aid and market support measures for farmers in the field of agriculture, the pressure to use the funds is a key aspect of the risk of expenditure under shared management. ? The main risks to the regularity of agricultural expenditure are that the areas or animals or the costs on which the aid payments are based are not eligible, the beneficiaries of aiddo not comply with the advances set for it and the aid is not correctly calculated. 
Non-compliancewith agri-environmental requirements, specific requirements for investment projects and procurement rules are important factors that increase the risk of rural development expenditure. ? The biggest risk of cohesion spending is breaches of EUand /or national public procurement rules. 
The second largest risk is that expenditure (or projects) are noteligiblefor EU funding. ? Although control systems require significant improvement, the main challenge is to take action to simplify the management of programmes. 
The Court notes errors in all EU Member States. 
Many errors have occurred due to the complexity of the overall management and control architecture. ? Despite improvements in the reporting of risks and errors by Member States' authorities, it remains very difficult for the Commission to ensure the reliability of this information. ? The amendments to the Regulations for the new programming period may not have asignificant impact on the level of risk. 
Our activities 14 Annual Report on the European Development Funds for 2013 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are funded by theEUMember States. They are subject to their own financial rules and are managed outside the general budget of the EU. 
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management ofEDF-funded actions. 
Under the EDF, the European Union grants funds for development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs)onthe basis of the CotonouAgreement of 2000. 
Expenditure is aimed atcurbing and finally eradicating poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of ACP countries and OCTs into the world economy. 
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars, namelydevelopment cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension. 
The Court's 2013 annual report on the EDFs became paral- lel to the annual report on the EUbudget on 5. Novem- ber 2014 published. 
It contains the 20th. Declarationof assurance on the EDFs. 
We found that the 2013 accounts represent the assetsand financial position of the EDFs, the results of their operations and cash flows and the changes in net assets as a whole. 
The Court estimated the error rate for EDF expenditure operations for the financial year 2013 at 3.4 %, representing an increase of 3.0 % comparedto 2012. 
Special Annual Reports for the financial year 2013 In 2014, the Court produced and published51 separate annual reports responsible for the financial year 2013. 
The reports covered the 41 decentralised bodies, executive agencies and agencies of the EU, the seven EU Joint Undertakings active in the field of research, as well as the European Central Bank, the European Schools and theSisnet Communication Infrastructure. 
The Court also published twosummaries with an overview of the results ofits annual audits for the financial year 2013 - one on the EU agencies and other bodies, the second on the Community'sresearch activities. 
These two analytical and comparative summaries were presented to the President of the European Parliament, the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Committee on Budgets.
Together with the special annual reports, these summaries are available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu). 
The EU Agencies, Bodies and Joint Undertakings are drawn up on the basis of EU legal acts to carry out specific tasks. Its seats are located throughout the European Union. 
They are active in many areas, such assafety, health, research, finance, migration and travel. 
They all have a mandate, a management board, a director, staff and a budget. 
While the agencies, bodies and joint undertakings, in relation to the EUbudgetas a whole, pose a relatively low financial risk, the Union's reputational risk is high, as they are clearly visible in the Member States and have a significant impact on policy governance, decision-making and programme implementation in areas of paramount importance for European citizens. 
51 special annual reports during the year 
Our activities 15 We gave the 41 Agencies and other directionsunrestricted audit opinions on thereliability of the 2013 accounts. 
The transactions underlying these accounts were legal and orderly for all agencies and other bodies, except for two in allmaterial respects. For the EIT (European Institute ofInnovation and Technology) and Frontex (European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union), the Courtissued a limited audit opinion. 
In addition, the 2013 accounts were reliable for all seven Joint Undertakings, but the Court issued a limited opinion on the legalityand regularity of the transactions underlying their annual accounts for threecompanies: for Artemis (embeddedICTsystems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative). 
As regards the European Schools, the Court was not in a position to conclude whether the conso-coveredfinancial statements for 2013 were free from material misrepresentation, as the schools continue to haveaccounting and control deficiencies. 
We examined the European Central Bank's handlingof its carbon footprintand noted that while the Bank has taken action to reduce the negative impact of its management on the environment, further efforts and measures are needed. 
In addition to its annual reports and special annual reports, the Court publishes special reports throughout the year containing the results of its economic performanceand compliance audits onspecific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice. 
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is keen to achieve maximum impact and thusmake the most of its resources. 
In the selection of topics, the Court takes into account the following factors: • the risks of irregularity oreconomic efficiency in the expenditure or policy area; • the potential to achieve added value in the course of an audit by the Court; • political and public interest. 24 special reports in 2014 
Our activities 16 The main stages of a selectedeconomic efficiency orcompliance audit planning audit on-site audit Write the report Vote of report Adoption Publication Determination of the suitability and feasibility of a proposed audit; The definition of the scope, objectives, approach, methodology and timetable of the audit Multidisciplinary teams shall bring together on-the-spot audit evidence in the Commission's Headquarters, as well as in Member States and beneficiary countries, in a clear, structured manner of the main findings and conclusions; Preparation of recommendations Confirmation of facts and findings by the audited bodies Adoption of the report by the Audit Chamber or by the whole Court College Publication of the Special Report in 23 official languages together with the reply of the audited body The following pages briefly present the topics of the 24 special reports prepared by the Court in 2014, each under the corresponding headings of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, the multiannual budget of the EU. 
Our activities 17 Intelligent and inclusive growth Smart and inclusive growth covers two areas: Competitiveness for growth and jobs includes funding for research and innovation, education and training, trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, social policy, business development, etc. The EU's contribution to growth and jobs for the period 2014-2020amounts to 142 billion euro and 13 % of thetotal EU budget, at current prices. 
Economic, social and territorial cohesion includes regional policy aimed athelping the EU's most developed countries and regions to connect with the rest. The aim is to strengthen the competitiveness of all regions and developcooperation between them. 
The EUbudget earmarkedfor cohesion for the period 2014-2020amounts to EUR 367 billion, or 34 % of the EU'stotal budget, at current prices. 
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of EU-fundedpublic transport projects (No 1/2014) - In this special report, we assessed the implementation and effectiveness of projects co-financed by EUStructuralFunds in the field of public transport in order to determine whether the projects corresponded to users' needs and achieved their objectives. 
The audit found that two thirds of EUstructural funds co-financed local transport projects were insufficiently used. 
This development was primarily caused by weaknesses in project design and an inadequate mobility policy. 
However, this inadequacy was generally not pursued by project promoters or national authorities. 
As a rule, infrastructure and vehicles have been set up for most projects in accordance with the project specifications. 
Significant delays and costswere identified, but after completion, almost all audited projects corresponded to the needs of users. 
European cities need to improve mobility through localmobi strategies and reduce congestion, accidents and pollution. 
The co-financed projects provided support to cities in setting up local transport systems suchasunderground trains, trams and buses. 
Trams and buses are important means of transportof public transport. 
Our activities 18 • Have we achieved good results from the Cohesion Policy Funds to support renewable energy production? 
(No 6/2014) - In this special report, the Court examined whether the two main sourcesof financing for the promotion of renewable energy - the European RegionalDevelopment Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF) - had achieved good results. To this end, it was examined whether the funds had been allocated appropriately prioritised, cost-effective and mature renewable energy production projects during this period with meaningful objectives and to what extentgood results have been achieved with the help of these funds, which contributed to the achievement of the EU 2020 renewable energy target. 
The audit found that there is aneed for the EU'sfinancial resourcesto contribute as much as possible to the achievement ofthe objective. 
The audited projects delivered the outputs as planned and most projects were sufficiently mature and ready for implementation at the time of their selection. 
There were neither significant cost overruns nor major delays, and renewable energy generation capacity was installed as planned and operational as planned. 
However, the results in terms of energy production have not always been achieved or not measured properly. 
Overall, the use of funds was limited as cost-effectiveness in the planning and implementation of projects was not the guiding principle and expenditurehad limited EU added value. 
The Council of the EU has set a binding EUtarget of 20 % for the share of renewable energy in grossfinal energy consumption by 2020. 
For renewable energies,around EUR 4.7 million from the ERDF and CF was earmarked for the period 2007-2013. • Has the ERDF been successful in supportingthe development of incubators? 
(No. 7/2014) - In this special report, the Court analysed whether the incubators co-financed by the ERDF hadsuccessfully supported start-upswith great growth potential. 
The audit found that the EU made a significant financial contribution to the creation of an infrastructure of incubators, especially in Member States where this type of business support is relatively rare. 
However, the performance of the audited incubators left much to be desired. 
The provision of start-up services was rather limited due to the financial constraints and the limited scope of start-up-related activities. 
This situation was mainly due to lack of expertise in start-up support procedures and poor administrative systems. 
Incubators pursue the goal of supporting new companies in their successful start-up and further development. 
Support to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) has become an ever- increasing politicalpriority over time. 
During the period 2007-2013, EU spending in this area amounted to EUR 38 billion. 
The'Delta' building co-financed by ERDF in theWroclaw Technology Park.
Our activities 19 • Is the ERDF effective in funding projects for the direct promotion of biodiversity undertheEU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020? 
(No 12/2014) - In this special report, the Court examined whether the ERDFfunding available for the direct promotion of biodiversity was used by Member States. 
The audit showed that Member States are lagging behind when using ERDFfunding to finance projects compared to otherERDF spending areas. 
In order to ensure that the ERDF can continue to be useful for the implementation of the EU strategy to reduce biodiversity loss by 2020, the Commission should step up its support to Member States in implementing specific protection and management plans for natural habitats and species.
The co-financed projects were generallyconsistent with biodiversity priorities set at national and EU level. 
However, the assessment of the effectiveness of these projects was affected by the fact that most Member States did not add anyresult indicators or monitoring systems to assess theevolution of natural habitats and species. 
Biodiversity protection is one of the EU's main priorities. 
The Council approved a new strategy for 2020 after the previous objective of curbing the loss of biodiversity in Europe by 2010 was missed. The direct promotion of biodiversity and nature protection was allocated toERDF resources of EUR 2.8 billion during the 2007-2013programming period. • Has the ERDF support beeneffective for SMEs in the field of e-commerce? 
(No 20/2014) - In this special report, we assessed whether the operational programmes provided a good basis for efficient support for e-commerceactivities for SMEs, whether the managing authorities properly selectedand monitored E-Com merce projects, and whether the ERDF co-financede-commerce projectshad been successfully implemented and provided measurable benefits. 
We found that the support provided by the ERDF to SMEs in the field ofe-commerce - purchasing and selling goods via the internet - helpedto increase the onlineavailabilityof services. 
However, due to shortcomings in monitoring, it was impossible to assess the extent to which ERDF supportcontributed to the achievement of the IT objectives of the Member States and the EU. 
Insufficient selection procedures in the Member States have the consequence that a good cost-cutting ratio is untrue for many projects. 
Programme managers focused more on the use of funds (outputs) than on achieving results. 
The Commission is promoting e-commerce through its Digi- tale Agenda for Europe. Under the ERDFbudget, EUR 3 billion of EU funds were allocated for better ICTuseby SMEs in the period 2007-2013. Court's video on Special Report No 20/2014 "Is the ERDF effective in financing projects for the direct promotion of biodiversity undertheEU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020?" - EUauditorsECA on Youtube. 
Our activities 20 Close-up of a performance audit: EU-funded airport infrastructure - insufficient cost-benefit ratio(No 21/2014) Closed part of the oversized terminal at Fuerteventura Airport. 
Although the EU's aviation policy is aimed at overcoming capacity problems - by building additional infrastructures, making better use of existing structures, optimising services at the airport and better connectivity to other modes of transport - Europe will not be able to meet a large part of this demand because of the lack of rollercoasters and ground infrastructure. 
In Europe, there are more than 500 commercial airports, where one million people are directly or indirectly employed and, together with Fluglinien, contribute more than EUR 140 billion to European economic performance. 
Airport-related infrastructure projects are a significant expenditure area of theEU budget: In the 2000-2013programming period, the EU allocated around EUR 4.5 billion to projects of this kind, of which more than EUR 2.8 billion was allocated from cohesion policy funds. 
As part of its performance audit of this support, the Court examined whetherinvestments were needed wisely, whether the respective time andcost limits were respected for the construction projects and whether the newly built or modernised infrastructures were fully used. 
The Court assessed whether the investments resulted in higher passenger numbers and improved customer service and whether the supported airports were financially viable. 
The auditors carried out their work between May 2013 and October 2014. The focus was on 20 EU-funded airports in Estonia, Greece, Italy, Poland and Spain. 
A total of more than EUR 600 million wasallocated to these airports in the period 2000-2013. 
The team carried out an examination of the relevant legislation, air transport planning in the five Member Statesandof the main interbranch organisations. 
In particular, the auditors carried out visits to the 20 airports in order to assess and obtain direct evidence of EUoutputs, uses, results and impacts and the economic situation of airports. 
The Court concluded that the cost-benefitratio of EU-fundedinvestments for airportswas not correct. 
Too many airports, often close to each other, received financial support for similar infrastructures, and in many cases it turned out that these infrastructures were oversized. 
Only half of the airports audited managed to increase their passenger numbers. 
Improvements in customer service or regional socio-economic benefits, such as the creation of additional jobs, were notmeasured or no evidence was available.
The audit also found that seven of the airports were not financially self-sustaining and will have difficulties to remain operational without further public support. 
At most airports, the auditors' team noted significant delays in the construction and provision of infrastructure. 
At almost half of the airports, costs were exceeded and Member States had to contributealmost 100 million euros more from their national budgets than originally planned. 
Our activities 21 The funding was not well coordinated by the Member States: In most countries, there was nolong -term plan for airport development. 
In addition, the Commission supervised the financing. In general, it is not known which airports receive funding or what amounts it is about. 
As a result, it does not have a full picture of all EUinvestmentsfor airports and has limited opportunities to monitor and ensure that strategies are properly designed and implemented. 
On the basis of these findings, the Court recommended to the Commissionto ensure, from the 2014-2020 programming period, that Member States apply EU fundsonly to airport infrastructures thatare financially viable and whose investment needs have been adequately assessed and proven.
A further recommendation was that coherent airport expansion plans should be available in the Member States at regional, national and supranational level in order toavoid overcapacity, duplication and uncoordinated investments in airport infrastructure. 
In its reply, the Commission has assured that lessons have been learned from these experiences. 
As a result, it has ensured thata fundamentally different approach is applied in the relevant legislation for the 2014-2020 programming period. 
The report was presented to the European Parliament, which fully supports the Court's conclusions and recommendations. 
The publication of the report attracted great media interest. 
The media reaction was the biggest in Spain, but also included headlines in important international newspapers, television and social media coverage. 
From left to right: Afonso de Castro Malheiro, Jasmine Mitterbuchner, Patrick Weldon, Mircea Radulescu, Pietro Puricella, Joël Costantzer, George Pufan (Member of the Court responsible for the report), Fernando Pascual Gil, Luc T'Joen, Tomasz Plebanowicz, Lorenzo Pirelli, Efstratios Varetidis, Jelena Magermane, Erki Must. 
Our activities 22 Sustainable growth: natural resources The EU has a high political responsibility in the areas of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment. 
The planned budget for the period 2014-2020 amounts to EUR 420 billion, or 39 % of the EU'stotal budget, at current prices. 
Three quarters of the expenditure concerns direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) - the "first pillar" of the common agricultural policy (CAP). 
Another fifth of the expenditure comes fromtheEU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the 'second pillar' of the CAP. 
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States. 
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Integration of the objectives of theEUwater policy into the CAP: a partial success (No 4/2014) - In this special report, we assessed whether the objectives of the EUwater policy were successfully integrated into the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). 
The audit showed that the EU can only have a partial success in integrating the objectives of water policy into the CAP. 
The two water-related integration tools (cross-compliance and rural development) have shortcomings and the implementation of the Water Framework Directive ischaracterised by delays and weaknesses.
The CAPinstruments have so far had a positive impact on supporting the policy objectivesof water supplyand quality. 
However, these instruments are limited compared to the ambitious objectives of the CAP. 
For example, neither of these two instruments allows full application of the polluter pays principle in the allocation ofCAP funding. 
Moreover, at EUinstitutionsand in the Member States, there is insufficient knowledge of the pressures on water resources caused by agricultural activities and the developments in these burdens. 
The EU places high priority on the protection of European waterresources. 
Agriculture as one of the largest consumers and polluters of water resources plays a key role in sustainable water management. 
Almost 40 % of the EU'sbudget will be allocated to the CAP (over EUR 50 billion for 2014). The EU is working under theCAP to influence agricultural practices affecting water resources. 
Our activities 23 • Has the Commissioneffectively managed the inclusion of coupled support in the single payment scheme? 
(No 8/2014) - In this special report, we assessed how well the Commission managed, following the 2008 CAP health check, the inclusion of EU support linked to production volumes (e.g. managed land or livestocknumbers) in the single payment scheme. 
The audit showed that during the2010-2012 period theCommission did not adequately monitor how Member States calculated farmers' entitlements toEUsupport payments for agricultural holdings under thedrive payment scheme. 
While most Member States had correctly used farmers' reference data, there were serious shortcomings in the correct application of the calculation rules andprinciples. 
The Commission did not use its mandate to ensure that the criteria for the allocation of available support were always in line with the EUprinciples, that they complied with the principle of soundfinancial management and had no potential impact on market conditions. 
In the framework established by the Commission, it was not clear enough for Member States to carry out controls and Member States' control systems were of varying quality. The main objective of the single payment scheme was to shift the focus of the CAP from market support to decoupled income support for farmers: Farmers shouldbe able to adapt their production to market demand and their incomeshould be stabilised. 
The so far introduced single payment scheme in 18 Member States accounts for 54 % of the total EUbudgetfor agriculture and rural development. • Is the EU's support for investmentand promotion in the wine sector well managed and there is evidence of results for the competitiveness of theEU wines? 
(No 9/2014) - In this special report, we assessed whether investmentand promotion measures were appropriately designed. We also examined the available monitoringand evaluation data in order to assess whether the Commission and the Member States achieved the desired results in an efficient manner. 
The audit found that the managementof support for investment and promotion in the wine sector was affected bydesign and implementation deficiencies and that impacts on the competitiveness ofEU wines could not always be demonstrated. 
The specific investment measure targeting the wine sector is not justified as support is alreadyprovidedunder the EU rural development policy. 
EUsupport for the promotion of wines was often more likely to consolidate existing markets than to open up new markets or recapture old markets. 
The impact of the investment measure cannot easily be separated from rural development investments. 
The EU is the world's largest wine producer. 
The EU's support is intended to ensure competitivenessand a better balance between supply and demand. 
Member States spent EUR522 million in EU funding in 2009-2013 for the promotion measure and EUR 518 million for the investment measure. 
For 2014-2018, the resources allocated to Member States under this measure have increased significantly. 
Our activities 24 • Effectiveness of support for aquaculture provided by the European FisheriesFund (EFF) (No 10/2014) - In this specialreport, the Court assessed whether the aquaculture support measures were well designed and implemented at EU and Member State level and whether the EFF achieved a reasonable cost-benefitratioand supported the sustainable developmentof aqua culture. 
The audit found that by 2013 the measuresto support aquaculture were not well designed and implemented at EU and Member State level, that the EFF did not achieve an adequate cost-benefit ratioand that the sustainable development of aquaculture was not effectively supported. 
The current framework was not suitable forconcrete implementation of the EU's objectives for the post-containing development of aquaculture and the results were not sufficient. 
Measures to support the sustainabledevelopment of aquaculture in the Member States were not well designed and implemented. 
The national strategic plans and operational programmes of the Member States were not sufficiently clear and Member States did not have a coherent strategy for the sector. 
The EFFfunds were often insufficiently targeted for aquaculture projects, and the audit showed that these projects did not normally yield the planned results or a good cost-benefit ratio. 
Around 1.3 million tonnes of fish are produced by aquaculture in the EU each year; the turnover amounts to 4 billion euros. 
One of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) for the period up to 2013 was to promote the sustainable development of aquaculture. 
By May 2013, the EFF has provided more than EUR 400 million to finance measures to promote productive investment, environmental and health policies in the field of aquaculture. • Economical economy: keep control over the costs of EU-funded aid for rural development projects (No 22/2014) - In this special report, the Court examines whether the approaches followed by the Commission and Member States were the most effective in keeping the costs of rural development aid under control. 
The audit showed that theEUMember States could achieve significant savings in aid for rural development projects while allowing formore efficient funding. 
The auditors identified practical and cost-effective approaches that could be more widely used in Member States' control of the costs of rural development aid. 
The Member States' control systems were aimed at controlling the prices of goods or works referred to in the aid applications, without thesame attention being paid to the question of whether the goods themselves were measured. 
Some price controls were time-consuming or provided little certainty that the approved costs were reasonable. 
At the beginning of the programming period, the Commission did not provide sufficient guidance, nor did it disseminate thelack of procedures. 
It did not ensure that Member States' systems were effective before granting such aid on a large scale. 
Around half of the total expenditure allocated by the EU to rural development in 2007-2013, amounting to EUR 100 billion, was implemented in the form of grants to the costs of investment projectsand other projects carried out by farmers, agricultural companies, associations and local authorities. 
Our activities 25 • Errors in rural development expenditure: What are the causes and what is done to eliminate them? 
(No 23/2014) - In this special report, the Court examined compliance with the applicable laws and other legislation in the implementation of rural development and described the main causes of the high level of errorin the area. 
The audit found that most of the errors in rural development policy are due to breaches of conditionsset at Member State level. 
The control authorities of the Member States could and should have detected and corrected most errors in investment measures in the area of rural development. 
Member States' control systems are deficient as the controls are not comprehensive and are based on insufficient information. 
The average error rate for rural development expenditure over the past three years was 8.2 %. 
Errors in investment measures accounted for two-thirds of the error rate, while area-relatedaids accounted for one-third. 
Only 16 % of the error rate resulted from non-compliance with provisions directly contained in EU Regulations, while the largest proportion of the Feh rate- 84 % - was due to breaches of conditionsset at Member State level. 
During the programming period 2007-2013, the EU and the Member States allocated over EUR 150 billion to rural development policy, which were used in almost equal proportions for investment measures and area-related aid.
These expenses are particularly flawed. • Will the EUbewell managed to prevent and remedy forest damage caused by Brän's and natural disasters? 
(No 24/2014) - In this special report, the Court assessed whether the support measure of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) for the reconstruction of forest potential and the introduction ofpreventive actions (measure 226) was well managed and whether the Commission and the Member States can demonstrate that the objectives of the aid have been achieved in a cost-effective manner. 
The audit found that the EU's financial resources for forest fire prevention and restoration of forests damaged by natural disasters and fires were not managed well enough. 
The Commission and the Member States cannot demonstrate thatthe results of the funding have been achieved in a cost-effective manner. 
In the last 30 years, an average of 480 000 hectares of forest land has been destroyed by fires in the EU. 
Preventive actions accounted for more than 80 % of theEU funding of 1.5million euros for the period 2007-2013. 
Our activities 26 Security and citizenship This policy area has been set up to ensure the free movement of persons and to provide citizens with a high level of protection. 
It extends from the management of the EU's external borders to judicialcooperation in civil and criminal matters and includes asylum and immigration policies, police cooperation and combating crime. 
Expenditure in this area for the period 2014-2020 is expected to amount to 18 million euro or less than 2 % of the total budget. 
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Lessons learned from the development ofthe European Commission's second generation information system ( SIS II) (No 3/2014) - In this special report, the Court examined why the Commission provided SIS II more than planned more than six years later and incurred eight times more costs than originally estimated. 
It was examined whether there was a viable business case for SIS II throughout the duration of the project, taking into account major changes in costs and expected benefits. 
The audit found that the delays and excessive costs were due to weaknesses in the Commission's management. 
The initial deadline was unrealistic and the Commission was unable to effectively manage the maincontract for development before 2009. 
The initial cost estimates significantly underestimated the actual level of investment required. 
The total cost of SIS II was EUR 189 million, compared to an initial estimated amount of 23 million euro. 
The Commission did not fully demonstrate that SIS IIoffered it the best cost ratio.
However, it has gained insights from her experience during the first projectsection and has already used some of these findings for other large-scaleIT projects. 
The Schengen Information System is used by border, police, customs, visa and judicial authorities throughout the Schengenarea. 
It contains informations (tenders) concerning persons who may have been involved in a serious criminal offence or who do not have the right to enteror reside in the EU. 
It also includes alerts on missing persons and lost or stolen property. • The External Borders Fund contributed to more financial solidarity, but the results need to beimproved and added EUadded value(No 15/2014) - In this special report, the Court assessed the effectiveness and EUadded valueof the External Borders Fund and highlighted the extent to which the objectives of co-financedprojects and programmes have been achieved. 
The audit showed that the External Borders Fund contributed to the management of the EU's external borders and increased financial solidarity between Member States. 
However, its additional EU added value was limited and the results could not bemeasured due to weaknesses in monitoring by competent authorities and serious deficiencies in assessments at Commission level and at Member State level. 
Member States' programmes were not embedded in national strategies for border controls and visa matters and did not containSMART objectives or measurable indicators. 
The project selection process did not ensure that the actual needs of the Member States were met. 
Non -net procurement procedures in the Member States pose a risk to the economicviabilityof housekeeping. 
In the mainly affected Member States (Greece, Spain, Italy and in the first years of support also Malta) there were four- end weaknesses in the management of the Fund. 
As the EU's main financial instrument to support the protection of the external borders, the External Borders Fund forthe period 2007-2013was EUR 1.9 billion.
Its overarching objective was to support current and futureSchengenstates in ensuring uniform, effective and efficient controls at their common external borders. 
Our activities 27 Europe in the world The EU's external relations activities focus on: Enlargement, stability, security and prosperity in their neighbourhood, active support for sustainable development at international level, promoting global policy "governance" and ensuring strategic and civil security. 
For the period 2014-2020,the EU has allocated EUR 66 billion in current prices and 6 % of its planned total expenditure to these objectives. 
Expenditure is manageddirectly by the Commission through its Headquarters or Delegations. 
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • The establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS) (No 11/2014) - In this specialreport, the Court examined whether the establishment of the EEAS was adequately prepared, whether its resources were efficiently prioritised, organised and allocated, and whether it has effectively coordinated with the Commission and the Member States. 
The audit found that the EEAS should increase its efficiency and do more for the EU and its citizens. 
The establishment of the EEAS was rushed and was not well prepared. 
Inadequacies in prioritisation, organisation and allocation of resourcesstruggled with efficiency. 
Coordination between the EEAS and the Commission was only partially effective, mainly due to the lack of effective coordination mechanisms and a rigid financial and administrativeframeworkat Delega level.
Coordination with Member States can be further strengthened in order to exploit synergies in the area of information exchange or joint accommodation and to improve consular services, including the protection of EUcitizens. 
The EEAS has its headquarters in Brussels and comprises a worldwide network of 140 delegations. 
For 2014, the EEAS had a budget of EUR 519 million divided between Headquarters (41 %) and Delegations (59 %). • EU rehabilitation assistance after the Haiti earthquake (No 13/2014) - In this special report, the Court examined whether the EU'srehabilitation assistance was well designed and adequately implemented and whether the Commission ensured an appropriate link between emergency assistanceand rehabilitation and development. 
The audit found that EU rehabilitation assistance was overall well designed and geared to the country's urgent needs after the 2010 Haiti earthquake, but that the programmeswere not implemented effectively enough and that emergency assistance, rehabilitation and development were not sufficiently linked. 
For most of theprogrammes audited, outputs were delivered on schedule, or their delivery was apparent, despite delays in almost all programmes. 
Although the Commission was aware of the difficult situation, it did not sufficiently bear a number of significant risks which jeopardised the implementation and achievement of the objectivesof the programme. 
The programmes were monitored, but the Commission and the EEAS did not take timely action toincrease the EU Delegation's resources in Haiti. 
In March 2010, 55 donors pledged $5.4 billion for theperiod2010-2012 for rehabilitation and development and a further $3.0 billion for 2013 and beyond. 
The EU was one of the main donors with an individual amount of EUR 1.2 billion. 
Our activities 28 • Effectiveness of the combination of financial resourcesfrom regional investment facilities with loans granted by financial institutions (mixed financing) to support the EU'sforeign policy(No 16/2014) - In this specialreport, the Court dealt with the establishment and management of the investment facilities and examined whether blending was able to achieve the desired benefits. 
In the context of the audit, while the judgment on mixedfinancing, i.e. the combination of financial aid from regional investment facilities with loans granted by financial institutions in support of the EU'sexternal policy, was positive in terms of structure and overall effectiveness, the Court also pointsout some key issues that need to be addressed urgently. 
While the facilities were well structured, the potential benefits of blending were not fully real due to shortcomings in their management bythe Commission. 
Almost half of the projects examined did not have sufficient evidence that the grants were justified. 
In some cases,investment is likely to have been made without theEU contribution. 
The Commission should ensure that the allocation of funds is based on a thorough, documentedsharing of added value in order to achieve the objectives of the EU's development, neighbourhood and enlargement policy. 
Since 2007, the Commission has set up eight regional investment facilities. 
These combine grants from the EDFs and the EU's overall budget with loans mainly from European DevelopmentFinance Institutions. 
The aim of the blending is to make use of investment opportunities in the form of large infrastructure projects that could be financially viable,but for which sufficient funding cannot be mobilised in the financial sector. • Can the EUinitiativeof the Centres of Excellence contribute effectively to the containment of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN)risksoriginating outside the EU? 
(No 17/2014) - In this special report, we assessed whether the initiative was based on a well-founded analysis of the pre-2010 situation, whetherthe organisation structure of the initiative was suitable to address the identified challenges and whether there was an appropriate management system and whether it was used. 
As part of the audit, the Court made a generally positive assessment of thecontribution of the Centresof Excellence to the mitigation of CBRN risks. 
The initiative is in line with the priorities set out in the European Security Strategyandthe EU Strategy against the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction. 
It intends to involve all the actors involved in the partner countries in orderto ensure that the measures takenare maintained. 
The organisational structure is generally appropriate, but its complexity has contributed to delays in the start-up of project activities. 
The Centres of Excellence initiative is geared towards setting up regional platforms in different regions of the world to address CBRN risks. 
It is the largest single measure of the long-term component of the Instrument forStabilisation and has been allocateda budget of EUR 100 million for the period 2010-2013. 
Our activities 29 • Systems set up at EuropeAid for evaluation and results orientedmonitoring (ROM) - In this special report, the Court examined whether these systems are reliable, whether their structure and resources are adequate, and whether they ensure that relevant and meaningful findings are made and that they havethe greatest benefit from the findings. 
As part of the audit, the Court found a critical assessment of thereliability of these systems. 
The bodies responsible for evaluationand nis-oriented monitoring are well organised, but more attention should be paid to the efficient use of resources. 
The systems do not provide sufficient information on the results achieved and they do not ensure that maximum benefit is derived from the findings. 
Evaluations of projects and programmes organised by the Commission's delegations and carried out in partner countries are not managed satisfactorily: Overall monitoring is not measured,there is ambiguity about the amount of resources used and there is a lack of access to the results. 
Two key elements of the framework for theaccounting obligation of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Development and Cooperation (EuropeAid) are theirsystems set up for evaluation and monitoring. 
The total annual cost of the systems is estimated at EUR 34 to 38 million. 
The annual development expenditure covered by these systems is estimated at around EUR 8 billion. • EU pre-accession assistance to Serbia (No 19/2014) - In this special report, the Court examined whether the Commissioneffectively managed pre-accessionassistanceto Serbia during the period 2007-2013, assessing its support for thekey of governance. 
Together with other forms of support, thefunds providedby the Instrucment for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) helped Serbia to implement social and economic reforms and improve public financial management. 
Based on itsexperience with other IPA beneficiary countries, the Commission is increasingly focusing on governance issues when planning financial and non-financial assistance to Serbia. 
The Commission has effectively managed non-finan assistance to Serbia in the areas of governance and anti-corruption. 
As regards Serbia's preparations for decentralised management of EUfunds, the Commission has also provided effective support, but only in the limited area of IPAadministrative structures. 
A quarter of the IPAfunding for Serbia has been channelled into the area of governance, which, according to the Commission, poses the biggest challenges for this country. 
The EU complements IPAfi- tion with a number of non-financial resources to help Serbia prepare for EU membership. 
Our activities 30 Administration The administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes expenditure on staff (salaries and pensions) as well as for buildings, equipment, energy, communication andinformation technology. 
The planned budget for the period2014-2020 is - at current prices - 70million euro and 6 % of the total EU budget. 
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: • How do EU institutions and bodies calculate, reduce and compensate for their greenhousegas emissions? 
(No 14/2014) - In this special report, the Court assessed whether the EU institutions and bodies had strategies to reduce the impact oftheir management on the environment and whether these strategies were effectively implemented. 
In the report, the Court called on the EU institutions todevelop a common policy approach to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions ('CO2 footprint'). 
The introduction of the eco-management and audit system is slowand the available information on theactual level of emissions is incomplete. 
Only a few institutions and institutions systematically use world-oriented procurement. 
While the EU institutions and bodies have succeeded in reversing the trend of rising greenhouse gas emissions linked to energy consumption in their buildings, no clear trends in reductionsinother emission sources such as missions could be identified on the basis of available data.
More than half of the EU's audited institutions and bodies had notset any quantified emissions targets. 
The EU's environmental policy aims at a high level of protection. 
The Treaty (TFEU) requires that environmental protection needs be integrated into the definition and implementationofUnion policies and policies to promote sustainable development. 
Our activities 31 Revenue/own resources Own resources are the EU's revenue to finance its expenditure. 
There are three types of resources: traditional own resources (on imports of customs duties levied outside the EU and production levies on sugar), own resources based on VAT and own resources derived from GNI (the largest source of revenue of theEU budget). 
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: • Are the preferential trade arrangementsmanaged to measure? 
(No 2/2014) - In thisreport, the Court assessed whether the Commission adequately assessed the economic impactof preferential trade arrangements and whether the controls effectively ensure that importscannot erroneously be subject to preferential customs duties as a result of a loss ofEU revenue. 
The audit showed that while the Commission has increased the quality of its impact assessments over time, the economic impact ofpre -frequency trade regimes is still not sufficiently analysed. 
The EU misses revenue due to weaknesses in Member States' customs controls: These checks do not prevent some imports from being subjectto erroneous preferential duties. 
Through unilateral preferential trade arrangements, the EU grants preferences to developing countries in order to provide them with duty-free access to the EUmarket, thereby contributing to the eradication of poverty and promoting sustainable development. 
In 2011, the value of goods imported intothe EU under preferential arrangements was more than EUR 242 billion; this represents 14 % of imports into the EU. 
Our activities 32 Financialand economic governance The European Union's economic governance framework aims at preventing or investigatingand correcting problematic economic developments, such as excessive government deficits or debt levels, which can hamper growth and expose the sustainability of public finances to a risk. 
In 2014, the Court adopted its first special report in this area: • European Banking Supervision takes shape - EBA in a changing environment (No 5/2014) - In this special report, the Court examined whether the Commission and the European Banking Authority (EBA)have satisfactorily exercised their responsibilities in establishing new regulatory and supervisory regimes in the banking sector and how effective these schemes have worked. 
The audit found that the reform of the banking sector legislation led by the Commission and the establishment of EBA were first important reactions to the financial crisis. 
The EBA has laid the foundations for anew regulatory and supervisory system for thebanking sector. 
The identified weaknesses related to cross-border banking supervision, the assessment of the resilience oftheEU banks and the promotion of consumer protection. 
In conjunction with the implementation of the 2011 stress test,which was carried out without financialbackstopmeasures at EU level, the EBA had limited legal mandates and scarce human resources.
Although the 2011 stress test resulted in the recapitalisation of many banks, it has also become clear that such stress tests are limited ifthey do not go hand in hand with the assessment of the quality of total assets. 
Issues remain as to the future role of EBA in banking supervision, as well as the respective roles and responsibilities of the EBA and the ECB. 
As a result of the financial crisis, the Commission has taken steps to stabilise the banking sector with a view to strengthening the regulatory framework and banking supervision, especially for cross-border banks. 
The EBA was created in 2011 as part of the detailed proposals for changes in the field of regulation. 
EBA plays a role in the supervision of European banking regulation and consumer protection. 
Our activities 33 Opinions and other statements adopted in 2014 With its opinions on proposals for new or amended legal acts with financial implications, the Court contributes to improvingEU financial management. 
These opinions are delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and used by the legislative authorities - European Parliament and Council - in their work. 
The Court can also, on its own initiative, issue position papers and analyses on other issues. 
At the Court's initiative, the position of the European Court of Auditors on the Commission's report on the fight against corruption was presented, while the investigation into possible savings in the EU budget was prepared by merging the European Parliament's activities in a single place at the request of the European Parliament. 
7 opinions in 2014 
Our activities 34Landscapeanalyses The year 2014 was marked by profound innovations for the European Union. 
Against the background of this change, the Court has designed and created a new product: the landscape analysis. 
Based on the Court's work results as well as its wealth of knowledge and experience, each analysis covers a wide range of topics. 
The analysis should serve as a basis for consultations and dialogue with theCourt's address, as well as to help the Court to make observations on important issues that are not subject to scrutiny. 
The first landscapeanalysis, published in September 2014, addressed EU accountability and public financial control issues (see box). This analysis was the main basis for the EU Accountability Conference, which took place in October 2014 (see page 42). 
The two -year analysis entitled 'Efficient use of EUfunds: A landscapeanalysis on risks to EUfinancial management was published in November 2014. 
It provides an overview of the EU's financial flows as well as a summary of the issues tobe addressed, inter alia, to ensure that EUtaxpayerscan be given a better cost-benefit ratio in terms of the EU budget (see box).
The opinions and landscape analyses areavailable in 23 official EU languages on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu). 
2 2 Landscape Analysis in 2014 
Our activities 35 gaps, overlaps and challenges: Alandscape analysis of theEU rules on accountability and public financial control This landscapeanalysisaims to raise awareness of an issue that is of paramount importance to the democratic legitimacy of the EU institutional system and tostimulate this issue. 
It describes the essential features of a accountability framework, the role of public financecontrol, the key elements for a solid chain of accountability and financial control, as well as six areas where there are challenges in terms of accountability and public financial control at EU level. It alsoanalyses the rules on accountability and financial control in relation to the various new EU and intergovernmental instruments developed in response to the financial crisis. 
Make the most of EU funds: A landscapeanalysis on risks to the EUfinancial management At a time when Member States' governments and taxpayers want the resources they contribute to achieving greater benefits, this landscapeanalysis summarises the Court's comments on all aspects of EU financial management. 
Based on the Court's35 years of experience in auditing EU revenue and expenditure, thislandscapeanalysis providesan overview of the EUfinancial management and a summary of the issues to be addressed to ensure that the EUbudgetachieves a better cost-benefit ratio. 
This analysis will be complemented by detailed data sheets on the main features and topics linked to thedifferent revenue and expenditure sectors, and proposals for improvementwill be made. 
Our activities 36 In the context of the analysis, a number of key points are identified that deserve particular attention: ? excessively complex eligibility schemes and other conditions for anEUsupport which complicate their understanding, management and control and lead to different interpretations; ? Public procurement rules and procedures that are not always complied with, either intentionally or because they are not properly understood, leading to higher costs or delays in EU-funded projects; ? the insufficient capacity of national authorities to manage and disburse EUfunds, which increases the risk of errors and the risk of low quality expenditure; ? the poor coordination of theEUbudget and national budgets, a lack of resources for co-financing by Member States and a stronger emphasis on compliance than achieving results; ? a high level of commitments from the previous expenditure period, which still need to be financed from the EUbudget. 
Accountability framework for the management and financial control of the EU European Parliament and Council (MS) European Audit Court of Auditors European Commission and managing authorities of the MS Diagram from the landscapeanalysis ofEU rules on accountability and public financial control. 
Accountability-related reporting: Transparency Responsibility for the implementation of the EU budget based on the Treaties reporting on the audit: independent, objective information audit mandate based on the contracts 
Our activities 37 Relations with the addressees The value of the Court's contributionto the EU accountability depends to a large extent on the benefits of its key partners in theaccountability process from its work results and its productions. 
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use ofEU fiduciary resources (i.e. the EuropeanParliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments). 
Through its 2013-2017 strategy, the Court is committed to stepping up arrangements to monitor external developmentsand to actively shape relations with our partners. 
The President and the Members of the Court have regular contacts with the committees of theEuropean Parliament, in particular with theBudget Committee. 
In 2014, President Caldeira attended two meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and a number of plenary sessions of the European Parliament. 
This included the presentation of the annual work programme and annual reports. 
The Court's objectives include strengthening partnerswith its main addressees, including the various specialised committees of the European Parliamentand the Council. 
In April 2014, the Ville Itälä Court transferred the newly created function of the member responsible for institutional relations. This helped to strengthen our institution's relations with other EU institutions in strategic terms and to increasethe chances of achieving greater impact with our work. 
In 2014, other ECA members responded to the Court's annual reports and special reports at 17 meetings 64 times before the Committee on Budgets. 
The resulting discussions resulted in reports drawn up by individual members of the Committee on Budgetary Control on special reports of the Court; this includes a draft report on the special reports inconjunction with the 2013 discharge procedure. 
In 2014, the Committee on Budgetary Control started systematically inviting the technical committees to the ideas of ourreports at its meetings and thus to contribute to the increased impact of our work. 
At the beginning of 2014, the European Parliament adopted a report on the future role of the European Court of Auditors. 
The Court welcomed theview expressed in this report that any reform should be considered in the broader context of the challenge of improving EU accountability. 
This applies in particular to the Court's work, its relations with the addressees and its use of resources. 
The progress made on these issues washighlighted in the 2014 peer review report (see "Important events").
Our activities 38 In many cases, as part of the implementation of its 2013-2017 strategy, the Court has already launched a number of initiatives for improvement. To thisend, the streamlining of theaudit and reporting process and a more flexible organisation of resources. 
As a result, more reports were drawn up over the course of the year and the average time needed to do so was reduced. 
Further efficiency gains and an increased effectiveness of the auditprocess expected of the internal reform project launched in 2014. 
In a November 2013 resolution, the European Parliament asked the Court to present a comprehensive analysis of the potential savings for the EU budget that would result if Parliament had a single seat. This should also takeaccount of the reduction in the loss of working time and greater efficiency. 
The Court presented the result of this work in July 2014 and concluded that a move from Strasbourg to Brussels could result in considerableone -offs, which were slightly higher dueto an additional move from Luxembourg to Brussels. 
In 2014, the Court continued regular cooperation with the Council in its various compositions and activities. 
President Caldeira presented the annualreports to the ECOFIN Council in December 2014, and the Court was regularly invited to present special reports to the various Council committees and working groups. 
Ensuring effective relations with the national parliaments is another priority for the Court. 
The European Affairs and Financial Control Committeesas standing committees of national parliaments are regularly informed of the Court's activities. 
Delegations from several national parliaments visited the Court during the year; this included the visit of a delegation from the French Senate in July 2014. 
In addition, the Court invitedthe main addresses to the annual seminar of its members in December2014 to present to them its position on the challenges of accountability in the EU. 
We work with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to combat fraudin the post-EU budget. 
It shall forward to OLAF any evidence of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the EU which it is investigating in the course of its audit work or communicated to it by third parties. 
In 2014, the Court informed OLAF of 16 cases where fraud, corruption or illegal activities were suspected as part of the audit work. 
Our activities 39 Cooperation with otherAudit Institutions The Court works with other SupremeAudit Institutions (SCAIs) mainly in thefollowing bodies: • Contact committee of the SAIs of theEUMember States; • Network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • international organisations for public financecontrol bodies, in particular the International Organisation of the Supreme AuditAuthority (INTOSAI) and its European Regional Group (EUROSAI). 
In September 2014, the Court revised and updated its international cooperation strategy (see box). 
EUROSAI Congress, The Hague, June 2014. 
In line with its overarching strategy 2013-2017, the Court's strategy for cooperation aims to make the greatest possible contribution to the EU's public accountability, in particular through enhanced bi-and multilateral cooperation with relevant partners such as national Supreme Audit Institutions and international audit organisations. 
As the Court's audit obligations cover areas of Europe-wide (e.g. fiscal governance) and global (e.g. climate change) issues, our activities in the field of international cooperation are even moreimportant than in the past. 
As part of its cooperation strategy, the Court has the following priorities: cooperation at EUlevel within the Contact Committee and individual cooperation with the SAIs of the EU Member States will continue to be the main priorities. 
In thecontext of the EUenlargement, the Court will support the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries intheiractions for the development of expertise. ?Asa member ofinternational audit organisations such as INTOSAI, the ECA will increase itsshareof cooperation activities on technical standards, as this organisation is of great importance for the development of expertise and for the exchange of knowledge in the fieldof public financial control.
Through its cooperation strategy, in conjunction with other recent actions such as the newly established high-level conferences and meetings, the Court will contribute to raising awareness ofthe EU's financial management and accountability. 
Our activities 40 Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EUMember StatesAccording to the EUTreaty, the European Court of Auditorsand the national auditbodies work closelytogether while respecting their independence. 
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of the EUMember States in the framework of the Contact Committee. This includes an annual meeting and the various working groups, networks and task forces set up to address specific issues of common interest. 
In October 2013, the Court took over the Headquarters of theContact Committee for one year. 
As Chair, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the Contact Committee, which took place in October 2014. 
The main day- to-day items included a seminar on strengthening cooperation, in particular in the areas related to the Europe 2020 strategy and the Banking Union, reporting on the activities of the Contact Committeeand its technical partners, as well as EU-related audits carried out by the Contact Committee. 
The Court also cooperates with the SAIs of EU Member States on a bilateral basis. 
A good example of this is a project jointly carried out by the Court and the SAI of Poland, Najwyzsza Izba Kontroli, in which the auditors of the Polish SAIs actively participated inour audit work in Poland on the eradication, control and monitoring of animal diseases. 
In addition, the Court cooperateswith the SAIs of Poland and Portugal on Europe 2020 in the context of the chapter on output of the 2014 annual report. 
Meeting of the Contact Committee in Luxembourg, 15-17 October 2014. 
Our activities 41 Network of Supreme AuditInstitutions of Candidate Countries and Potential Candidate Countries Cooperation between the Court and the SAIs of the Candidate Countries and the potential candidatecountries is primarily carried out through a network comparable to the Contact Committee1. 
During 2014, the Court supported the network in carrying out a parallel performance audit on energyefficiency, in particular by providing experts in the fieldand by providing the methodology of the performance audit. 
International organisations for public financial control bodies In 2014, the Court continued toparticipate in the activities of INTOSAI and leis -teteimportant contributions to various committees and working groups: • under Objective 1 of INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for Technical Standards and as a member of the Subcommittee forAuditing Accounting, the Subcommittee for the Audit ofLegal Standards and the Subcommittee for Performance Audits; • under Objective 2 of INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for the Development of Expertise and the Subcommittee for the Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through voluntary peer reviews; • under Objective 3 of INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for the Exchange of Knowledge and its Working Group on Environmental Assessment and the Working Group on Financial Modernisation and Regulatory Reform. The Court participated in IX. EUROSAICongressin June 2014. In this context, he organised and organised a workshop on "Measuring your performance". 
He also took part in the XLI and XLII. Participate in the EUROSAIBureaumeeting, to which he has been a member since 2011. The Court continued to participate actively in the EUROSAI workingbodies, in particular in the Working Group on ITand Environmental Audit, in the accompanyingCommittee onthe establishment and operation of the Electronic Good PracticeDatabase on Audit Quality, and in the Audit and Ethics Task Force. 
We also joined the newly established Working Group onDisaster Assistance. 
During the joint conferences of INTOSAI regional working groups, the Court activelyparticipated in the II Joint ASOSAI2-EUROSAI Conference focusing on lessons learned from the experience gained in the adoption of ISSAI3 and its implications for the future. 
1 In January 2015, the Network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and one potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina). 
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has participated as an observer in the network. * This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 andtheOpinion of the International Court of Justice on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence. 
2 Asian Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions. 
3 International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions. 
Our activities 42 Important events International expert review by the Court in 2013 asked the SAIs of France, German countryand Sweden to carry out apeer review on its practice of performance audit. 
The peer review was based on the experience of all three partners and was a very useful exercise for both the Court and the expert verifiers. 
The methodology was based on generally accepted criteria for the work of the SAIs and took into account the guidelines laid down in international standards. 
The peer review was published in 2014 on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu). 
The peers concluded that the Court had made considerable progress since the last peer review in 2008. 
The Court examined the challenges arising from the complex institutional framework of the EU and had taken a number of steps to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of its audits and the quality of its audit reports. 
International audit principles encourage theconduct of international peer reviews. 
These allow Supreme Audit Institutions to obtain a voluntary assessment of the performance of their tasks based on international standards. 
In 2014, the Court led the Peer Review of the Lithuanian Supreme Audit Authority and wasrequestedto respect the Federal Financial Control and to participate in the peer reviews of the SAIs of Spain and Lett -land. 
High-level conference on improving accountability in the EU From left to right: Jacques Sciberras, Head of Cabinet, Kevin Cardiff, Member of the Court, President Vítor Caldeira and EPVice-President Olli Rehn. 
In October 2014, the Court held a high-level conference inviting a large number of people responsible for ensuring that the EuropeanUnion complies with its accountability with regard to the public funds used to achieve its objectives. 
The conference focused on gaps,cuts and challenges at EU and Member State level, as identified in the Court's landscape analysis on EUaccountability and public financial control schemes (see page 35). 
The conference gave an opportunity to discuss among the participants, including Members or representatives of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Court, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Stability Mechanism, national auditors and science. It was discussed how these arrangements should be developed inresponseto developments in the area of economic, fiscal and monetary integration. 
The focus was on accountability within the EU, in particular with regard to central banks and supervisory authorities, structures of the crisis and post-crisis, increasing the leverage effect ofthe EU through external participation and a stronger focus on the EU's provision of services. 
The conference participants agreed that there is a need for greater cooperation between governmentalauthorities, parliaments and auditors at EU and Member State level in order to give the public a better picture of the achievements provided by EU policies and programmes. 
Our activities 43 Strengthen partnerships with the national authorities in Lithuania A high-level delegation of the Court visited Lithuania in September 2014 to strengthen partnerships with the country's parliament, government, central bank and SAI and to promote the best use and control of EUspendingthere. 
The Court and its partners in Lithuania exchanged views on priority actions to improve the EU'saccountabilityand considered how best to contribute to the added value of EUspendingthrough their cooperation and to help policy makers and Parliament in Lithuania make the best use of the Court's audit results.
During the visit, the Court's delegation actively participated in the conference ofthe Lithuanian Parliament, plus the challengesof accounting and auditing in the public sector. 
In addition, the delegation and its partnersdiscussed financial and economic governance issues and the benefits of Lithuania's accession tothe euro area on 1 January 2015. 
Lithuania was the first of a number of EU Member States to visit the Court in the coming years in order tostrengthen partnerships with the national authorities responsible for managing and controlling EU funds.
Our management 44 The College of the Court belongs to the College of the Court of Auditors from each Member State. 
According to the contract, the term of office of the members of the Court is six years and a reappointment is possible. 
The members are assigned to one of five chambers. 
The Chambers adopt audit reportsand opinions and take decisions on further strategic and administrative issues. 
In addition, each member is responsible for its own tasks, which are primarily audit-related tasks. 
The underlying audit work will be carried out by the Court's auditors and coordinated by the responsible member assisted by his cabinet. 
The Member then took over the presentation of the report for adoption by the Chamber and/or the entire College of Courts and later the presentation in the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties, including the media. 
In accordance with the proposals of their Member States and after consulting the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union appointed six new Members of the European Court of Auditors in 2014. 
Four of these members - Alex Brenninkmeijer (Netherlands), Daničle Lamarque (France), Nikolaos Milionis (Greece) and Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom) - welcomed the Court on 1 January, while two others - KlausHeinerLehne (Germany) and Oskar Herics (Austria) - were welcomed on 1 March 2014. 
On 23 January 2014, the 28 members of the Court re-elected Vítor Caldeira as President of the Court for a third three-year period. 
The President is responsible for overseeing the performance of the Court's mandate and represents the institution externally. 
Members of the Court at the end of 2014. 
Meeting of the Members of the Court on 27 October 2014. 
Our management 45 Igors LUDBORŽS Latvia Lazaros S. LAZAROU Cyprus Henrik OTBO († 1.2.2015) Denmark Doyen EUROPEAN RESEARCH HOUSE 31. 12 December 2014 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Chamber I - Preservation and management of natural resources Doyen Rasa BUDBERGYT Lithuania Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Doyen Milan Martin CVIKL Slovenia Jan KINŠT Czech Republic Kersti KALJULAID Estonia Augustyn KUBIK Poland Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Oskar HERICS Austria Doyen Doyen Ladislav BALKO Slovakia Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria George PUFAN Romania Phil WYNN OWEN OWEN CENTRACIAL CITY AND COUNCIL 
Our management 46 strategy of the Court for 2013-2017: Progress made in 2014 was the second year in which the Court implemented its 2013-2017 strategy. 
During this period, the value of the Court's contribution to the EU's public accountabilitywill be maximised. 
In order to achieve this objective, the Court primarily pursues the following priorities: ? Orientation of the Court's products to improve the accountability of the EU; ? cooperation with other actors to strengthen the Court's contribution to the accountability of the EU; ? Further development of the Court as a professional audit body; ? optimal use of the knowledge available to the Court, as well as the expertise and expertise available to it; ? Evidence of the Court's performance and the performance of its accountability. 
In 2014, a profound restructuring of the Court's organisational structure was initiated with the help of the strategy. 
Two internal working groups dealing with the strategy ("Strengthening the audit process" and "better definition of tasks and responsibilities") presented their results. 
This coincided with the European Parliament's report on the future role of the ECA and the results of the peerreview process that the Court has undergone. 
The various recommendations have been summarised in a far-reaching reform project, the implementation of which started at the end of 2014 and will last until mid-2016. 
In the case of special reports, this means that they should be produced in a shorter period of time, in the case of the annual report, greater focus and resource savings will be sought. 
The farm is to be converted into a task-based organisation. 
This will make it better able to target resources for those audits and analyses that provide the most added value for the EUcitizens. 
Our management 47 Measurement of the Court's performance The Court has been applying central performance indices (ZLI) since 2008 to inform management of the progress achieved towards its objectives, to support the decision-making process and to provide information on performance to its addressees. 
The ZLIs reflect the Court's priorities and provide information on its performance and accountabilityas a professional audit body. 
The indicators are used to measure key parameters for the quality and impact of the Court's work, paying particular attention to the point of view of key addressees and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources. 
The ZLIs have beenupdated for the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy. 
Assessment by addressees Applicability of reports Probable impact of the reports Quality and impact of the Court's work The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by addressees and expert reviews. A furtherassessment is the measurestaken as a result of its failures to improve EU financial management. 
In addition, the Court measures its media presence. 
The Court asked its main addressees - theCommittee on Budgets and the Budget Committee of the European Parliament, the Council's Committee on Budgets, the main audited bodies at the Commission and the EUAgencies, as well as the Presidents of the EUSAIs- to assess the relevance and impact of our reports published in 2014 on a five-stage scale from "very high" to "very low". 
2 100 % very low 13 56 25 4 13 53 25 9 0 % 20 % very high 40 % 60 % 80 % high medium low The responses show that 94 % of the main addressees assess the value of ECA reports as useful for their work (2013: 98 % 91 % believe that the Court's work has an impact (2013: 94 % 
Our management 48 reviews by experts Every year independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of our reports to assess the quality. In 2014, the auditors assessed eight special reports as well as the 2013 annual reports. 
They assessed the quality ofthe reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high quality" (4). 
Reviews of the Court's reports by experts The results, which are very constant in recent years, are indicative of the satisfactory quality of the Court's reports. 
100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 0 % 4 3 2 1 0 2,8 3.0 3.0 3.0 3,1 2011 2012 2014 Follow-up of recommendations The recommendations made in our audit reports are a key instrument for improving EU financial management. 
Some recommendations can be implemented quickly, others require more time due to their complexity. 
At the end of 2014, 69 % of the almost six hundred recommendations the Court made in 2011-2014 had been implemented. 
This represents an increase compared to the implementation rate of 60 % recorded in 2013 for therecommendations made in 2010-2013. 
91 % 65 % 58 % 60 % 2014 2013 2012 2011 Quality rating 
Our management 49 Media presence The indicator concerning the Court's media presence reflects the Court's impact in the media. 
It concerns the strategic objective of raising awareness of the Court, its products, as well as its audit findings and audit conclusions. 
In 2014, the Court identified more than 5 100 online cases related to its special reports, the 2013 annual report and the institution in general. 
40 % of them concerned audit reports and the other articles referred to the institution and its work in general. 
More than 800 articles have been published on the ECA Special Report Implementation of the work programme The Court plans its audits and other tasks on the basis of the annual work programme and monitors progress during the year. 
In 2014, the Court carried out 95 % of the tasks providedfor in its work programme (2013: 90 %. 
While work on annual reports and special annual reports was carried out as planned, this was 85 % for the Special Reports (2013: 70 % too. 
The unfinished economic audits in 2014 were carried over to 2015. 
Media Reference Topics 29 11 60 0 % 20 % Special Reports 40 % 60 % Annual Reports 2013 80 % The Court generally assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources based on the extent to which it is able to implement its work programme, carry out audits in a timely manner and ensure the expertise of its staff. 
Implementation of ECA Work Programme 2014 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 % Annual Reports Special Reports Special Reports Other tasks Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 95 % 85 % 
Our management 50 preparation of special reports In order to have an impact on the Court's special reports, they must be submitted in a timely manner. 
In recent years, the Court has been able to reduce the time needed for the audits. 
The 2013- 2017 strategy aims to achieve further improvements and this strategy is expected to deliver measurable results in the coming years. 
In 2014, the Court produced 24 special reports, of which 42 % (2013: 37 %) were completed within the 18-month timeframe set by the Court. 
On average, 19 months were taken for the preparation of the special reports adoptedin 2014 (2013: 20 months). 
100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 % 10-18 months 10 SB 18-26 months 13 SB 4 % Longer than 26 months 1 SB 54 % 42 % Vocational training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants( IFAC), the Court strives toprovide auditors with an average of 40 hours (5 days) of professional training (excluding language courses). 
Training days per auditor per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 10 2012 2013 2014 Average number of training days for auditors (excluding language courses) The Court again exceeded the target for the professional training of auditors, which shows the importance itattaches to personnel development. 
At 6.4 target = 5 days 5.2 5.8 taking into account language courses in 2014, an examiner averaged 10 days of training. Days 
In view of the difficult situation of public finances in Europe,the Court continued the staff reduction of 1 % per year for a period of five years (2013-2017), as set out in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and theeconomic management of December 2013. 
As a result, staffing was reduced from 891 to 882 officials and temporary staff in 2014 (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees). 
Out of the total posts, 561 are allocatedto audits (including 113 staff in members' cabinets). 
With a view to the goal of the bestpossible set of resources, in 2014 the possibilities for increasing efficiency were againidentified and implemented in all activities by the Association of Procedures. 
The redeployment of staff from support to audit services also continuedin 2014. 
However, this was offset by the redeployment ofcertain support services from Members' cabinets to an administrative pool and the transfer of the Communication and Institutional Relations Unit to the services of the President. 
51 Recruitment The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output. 
The ECA's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EUinstitutions, and the Commission consists of both civil servants and temporary agents. 
In 2014, an internal selection procedure for grade AST 1 and a selection procedure with a view to recruiting a spokesperson was conducted. 
In addition, the Court provided traineeships for 77 graduates for periods of three to five months during the year. 
In 2014, the Court recruited 78 staff, 31 officials, 29 temporary agents, 13 contract staff and five seconded national experts. 
The number of vacant posts has been close to 3 % since 2011 (on 31. In December 2014, 27 posts were vacant). 
Distribution of the Court's posts on 31. December 2014 2012 2013 2014 Examination Services 573 576 561 Translation 143 147 141 Administration 139 137 141 Services of the President 32 31 39 Total 887 891 882 
Support for audit activities 52 Balanced relations between men and women Like the rest of the EUinstitutions, the Court operates a policy of equal opportunities in terms of perso- nal management and recruitment. 
After a continuous increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has nowreached a balanced proportion of men and women of 50 % among its employees. 
The graph below shows the proportion ofmen and women by level of responsibility at 31. In 2014, which has hardly changed in recent years. 
Men's and women's share by category of staff in 2014 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 % Assistants - Secretaries Auditor - Administrative Boards Men Management Women 66 % 41 % 59 % 31 % 69 % 34 % 
Support for auditing activities 53 Nationality and gender executives on 31. December 2014 Women Men Nationality1 Directors of Unit 4 Belgium 1 3 1 Bulgaria 1 1 Czech Republic 1 1 Denmark 2 3 4 Germany 1 6 1 Estonia 1 3 Ireland 1 2 Greece 1 2 3 4 Spain 1 6 8 France 1 7 1 Croatia 1 1 Italy 3 Cyprus 1 Latvia 1 1 Lithuania 1 1 Luxembourg 1 Hungary 1 Malta 1 1 Netherlands 2 1 Austria 1 Poland 1 2 Portugal 3 1 Romania 1 1 Slovenia 1 1 Slovakia 1 1 Finland 1 1 Sweden 1 1 United Kingdom 4 5 21 46 Total 11 56 1 In the protocol order of the Member States. 
Support for audit activities 54 The Action Plan on Equal Opportunities aims toachieve a balanced proportion of men and women at all levels of the Court. 
According to the latest recruitment waves, 48 % of staff in grades AD 5 to AD 8 are women (an increase from 43 % in 2009). 
Age profile The age profile of the 31st In December 2014, 53 % of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger. 
20-24 0.1 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0.3 % Since a renewal in senior management positions is expected over the next five to ten years, the growing proportion of women in function group AD will lead to more women in leadership positions in the future. 
27 (40 %) of the 67 directors and heads of unit are 55 years old or older. 
As a result, there will be a renewal in senior management positions over the next five to ten years when they retire. 
2.4 % 10.3 % 19.2 % 21.9 % 18.1 % 14.3 % 3.9 % 9.4 % 
In order to further develop the Court as a professional audit body and to make the best use of the knowledge available to it, as well as the expertise and expertise available to it, permanent training of staff is necessary in order to be able to keep up with professional developments and acquire new skills. 
In 2014, the Court's staff (auditors and other staff) completed an average of eight days of professional training. 
The proportion of language courses in continuing vocational training continues to decline. 
In 2014, this accounted for 43 % of the total number of training days (compared to 46 % in 2013). 
In order to make the best use of existing resources and technologies, the Court has been offering its employees individually tailored e-learningcoursesand training courses in the form of integrated learning( blended learning) since 2014, in which participants complete the general theory inonline training prior to the attendance session. 
In addition, the objective of exchanging internal knowledge and providing the Court's auditors with the most up-to-date audit developments in the public sector has continued to be organised by internal andexternal experts on developments in the field of audit and other relevant areas. 
Translation Translation is an audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and to achieve its communication objectives, which are to provide the results it presents in the languages oftheEU citizens. 
In 2014, the total translation volume was 4 % higher than in 2013. 
More than 98 % of translations were completed on time. 
In addition to normal translation work, the Translation Directorate further expanded the direct participation of translatorsin the Court's audit and core business: Translators provided linguistic support during 40 audit visits across the EU and indrafting audit reports. 
In 2014, the Directorate for Translation focusedon quality assurance. 
For this purpose, the first manual for quality assurance in the translation sector was adopted and a system for customerfeedback was developed. 
Finally, in order to make the services more efficient, the process of translation workwas reviewed and optimised. In cooperation with the Information Technologies Directorate, the automation of the process has started. 
Support for audit activities 56 All processes related to the development and provision of instruments were carried outunder the guarantee and continuity of the operation: For example, in 2014 after the new K3buildingwas moved, a comprehensive restart testwas carried out following a collapse of the IT systems(disaster recovery), and centralIT components were modernised (e.g. the migration of the Court's e-mail system). 
Management and Infrastructure The task of the Directorate for Finance and Support Servicesis to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and implement its strategic objectives, and to ensure that the necessary financing,internal controls andaccounting mechanisms are available to support allour activities. 
In 2014, the Directorate continued to focus onmaking its activities even more efficient and economic. 
An environmental management system for the Court is currently being developed, in line with the principles of the Community Environmental Managementand AuditSystem (EMAS) with a view to obtaining certification by the end of 2016. 
In 2014, several measures were successfully implemented, delivering concrete results and demonstrating the Court's commitment tothe environment. These included: • Adoption of an environmental policy; • Carrying out an environmental analysisand compliance with environmental law; • Increasing the number of environmentalworkers' awareness campaigns from four in 2013 to eight in 2014; • Obtaining BREEAM environmentalcertification(the world's leading method for design and promotionof sustainable buildings) for the K3 buildingandmaintaining the certification mark for exemplary waste management; • Promoting sustainable transport amongworkers by providing a new bicycle room with showers and changing areas for cyclists, by installing a charging station for electric cars and by booking good parkingplaces for car sharing. 
57 Financial information The Court isfinanced from the general budget of the European Union. 
The Court's budget accounts for around 0.093 % of total EU expenditure and 1.58 % of total administrative expenditure. 
In 2014, the execution rate of the total available household budgetamounted to 98.8 %, compared to 92 % in 2013. 
The higher execution rate is mainly due to a better estimate and planning of expenditure for Title 1, which achieved an average execution rate of 98.8 %. 
For Title 2, the average execution rate was 98.4 %. 
Implementation of the 2014 budget Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 15 190 93 180 4 191 3 350 2 629 118 540 2 564 7 199 1 543 552 703 2 397 14 958 133 498 14 554 92 774 4 113 3 119 2 592 117 152 2 541 799 1 541 532 649 2 264 14 726 131 878 96 % 99 98 % 98 % 98 % 99 99 % 100 % 99 % 96 % 92 % 94 % 98 % 99 % (EUR 1 000) 14 420 92 745 4 071 2 641 1 957 115 834 1 830 381 686 450 466 1 316 8 329 124 163 - Missions 20 - Building Subtotal Title 1 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and ancillary costs 23 - Current material expenditure for the operation of services 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Subtotal Title 2 of the European Court of Auditors Total payments 1 Originally established budget and transfers made during the year. Use of appropriations in % (commitments/assigned appropriations) HAUSHALTSJAHR 2014 Final appropriations1 Commitments 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditures 
Support for audit activities 58 Budget 2015 The 2015budget decreases by 0.4 % over 2014. 
Budget 2015 Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution2 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 2 669 118 381 3 080 780 785 426 717 2 365 14 525 132 906 15 175 93 180 496 3700 2 612 118 763 3 350 7 110 808 438 768 2 261 14 735 133 498 HAUSHALT1 162 missions 20 - Building Subtotal Title 1 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 2015 (EUR 1 000) 2014 (EUR 1 000) Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and related costs 23 - Current operating expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Subtotal Title 2 Total of the Court of Auditors 1 The figures in the table correspond to the budget initially adopted. 
2 According to the Commission's proposal to include the pensions of the former members of all EUinstitutionsin the section of the Commission, which already covers the pensions of staff of all institutions, the expenditure onpensions of the former Members of the Court has been transferred to the Commission's section in the adopted budget for 2015. 
59 Audit and accountability of the Court's internal audit The Internal Auditor advises the Court on riskcontrol issues by issuing opinions on the quality of managementand control systems and recommendations on improving the conditions for the management of transactions and promoting sound financial management. 
In addition, the Internal Auditor supports the work of the external auditor whose mission is to certify the Court's annual accounts. 
The Internal Auditor reported to the Court on the results of the audits carried out during 2014, the findings, the recommendations and the actions taken in response to these recommendations. 
The Court reports annually tothe European Parliament and to the Council on the results of the internal auditor's work. 
In October 2014, the Court's internal audit was certified to comply with the definition of internal audit, code of conduct and standards drawn up by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IAA). 
This certification was the result of a comprehensive quality assessment of the Court's internal audit carried out at the request of the Internal Auditor and the Internal Audit Committee by an external evaluator, Deloitte SARL. It also complied with the IIA's international standards for the professional practice of internal auditing. 
External audit of the Court The Court's annual accountsare audited by an independent auditor. 
This is an important aspect in the Court's approach to applying to ourselves the same principles of transparency and accountability as for the bodies we audit. 
The auditor's report - Pricewaterhouse CoopersSARL - on the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013 was published on 18 September 2014. 
Audit opinions of the independent auditor - financial year 2013 To the annual accounts: "In our opinion, the end ofthe year gives a true view ofthe assetsand financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December. December 2013, its performance and cash flows for the year ending that reference date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and CommissionRegulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules of application of the Financial Regulation.' "In our work described in this report, wehave not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria, the resources allocated to the Court were not used for thepurposes set out above and • the control procedures put in place do not provide theassurance that the financial transactions were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 
Declaration by the 60 authorising officer by delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, • • - - -, that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate and confirms with reasonable assurance that the appropriations made available for the activities described in this report have been used for thepurposes set out above and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management; and that the control procedures put in placeprovide the necessary assurance as to the legality andregularity of the underlying transactions and for the appropriate management of fraud or suspicion of fraud, and that the costs and benefits of the checks are reasonable. 
This guarantee is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as the reports and declarations of the authorising officerby subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's auditreports on previous financial years. 
Done at Luxembourg, 26 February 2015 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 
European CONSTRUCTION HOUSE DE 2015 Activity report 
02 EUROPEAN APARTMENT HOUSE 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBURG Tel. + 352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/de/Pages/ContactForm.aspx website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA Numerous further information on the European Union is available via Internet, Server Europe (http://europa.eu). 
Luxembourg: Office of Publications of the European Union, 2016 Print ISBN 978-92-872-4091-0 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-4084-2 EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-4066-8 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/880265 doi:10.2865/420922 doi:10.2865/528320 QJ-AA-16-001-EN-C QJ-AA-16-001-EN-N QJ-AA-16-001-EN-E (c) European Union, 2016. 
European Court of Auditors HOT THEEU FINANCIALS 
European Court of Auditors 02 About the Court The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the European Union based in Luxembourg. 
It has 28 members - one from each EU Member State - and employs around 900 staff from all EU Member States in the area of auditing and administration. 
Since its inception in 1977, the Court has been committed to improving EU financial management and accounting. 
We check that the EU funds have been correctly accounted for, collected and spent in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations and whether there is an optimal use of funds. 
It warns about risks, provides security and provides guidance to EU policy makers on how to improve public financial management and ensure that European citizens know how their funds are used. 
Through its audit work and other activities, the Court contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and sustainability of the European Union. 
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 Preface of the President 5 2015 at a glance 5 Our activities 6-40 Our activities 6-9 Audits 10-13 Annual reports 14 Special annual reports 15-33 Special reports 34 Opinions 35-36 High-level events and conferences 37-38 Relations with addressees 39-40 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions 41-49 Our management 41-42 The Court's College 43-45 Strategy for 2013-2017 46-49 Measurement of performance 50-59 Assistance to audit activities 50-53 Human resources 53-55 Support services 56-57 Financial information 58-59 Audit and accountability 60 Declaration of the Authorised Authorisation 
Foreword by President 04 Dear reader, in 2015 to which this activity report refers, the European Union was again faced with major challenges. There have been significant developments in EU governance, policy and financial management, including the establishment of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) and the establishment of the Single Resolution Mechanism for banks in the euro area. 
These and other developments have led to new audit tasks for the Court. 
In 2015, we reviewed the activities of the EU institutions and other bodies, as well as all EU funds paid to Member States, countries outside the EU, international organisations and other beneficiaries. 
In accordance with our obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we have prepared annual reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds, as well as specific annual reports on the accounts of more than 50 EU agencies and other bodies. 
In addition, we produced 25 special reports on numerous topics, the results of which are summarised in this activity report. 
In particular, we would like to draw your attention to two special reports: our report on the emissions trading system, which shows that our work goes beyond purely financial matters, as well as our report on financial assistance to countries in difficulty, which is part of a series of new special reports on fiscal and economic governance. 
Last year, we also delivered eight opinions on new or amended EU legal acts with significant financial implications, including an opinion on the regulation establishing the EFSI. 
In order to make a difference in our work, we need to pass on the lessons learned to stakeholders at EU and national level. 
Throughout the year, we further deepened our cooperation with the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union - our key partners in ensuring the EU's accountability. 
We presented the results of our audits to an increasing number of specialised committees of these bodies, and we took into account their concerns when planning future audits. 
We also provided high-level visits to Member States to strengthen partnerships with national authorities, parliaments and audit bodies. 
In 2015, we organised two notable conferences: one in Brussels on EU energy security and the other in Luxembourg on the future of development aid in the light of the new Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. 
We also prepared an extensive internal reform in order to better respond to the continuous developments within the European Union. 
This report sets out some important changes that we have made in relation to our stakeholder relations, our audits and our resources. 
In addition, you will receive important information about our human resources management, finances and achievements and the results of our internal and external audits last year, as well as on the latest annual discharge procedure. 
I hope this report will give you a useful and interesting overview of the Court's activities in 2015. With these activities, we want to fulfil our mission, which consists of improving EU financial management, promoting accountability and transparency and protecting the financial interests of EU citizens. 
05 Our management • Annual reports on the general budget of the EU • and on the European Development Funds for the financial year 2014, which mainly include the statements of assurance and audit results. • 52 specific annual reports containing the Court's audit opinions on the accounts of individual EU agencies and bodies and two summary reports. We carried out an internal reform to streamline our audit and reporting procedures and provide greater flexibility in managing our resources. • 25 special reports on certain management issues and budgetary areas, including the emissions trading system, youth employment programmes and assistance during the financial crisis. • • 8 opinions on new or amended EU acts and other decisions affecting financial management, from the proposed Regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments to the amended Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation. • Meetings, seminars and conferences with our addressees, including two high-level conferences on EU accountability, one on energy security and the other on the future of development aid. 
With regard to recruitment and human resources management, we continued our policy of equal opportunities. • We have made considerable progress in integrating information systems for audit management and audit documentation. In addition, we made audit-related information accessible on mobile devices. The European Court of Auditors' buildings in Luxembourg. 
Our activities 06 Audits Our audit reports and opinions form an important link in the EU accountability chain as they are used to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's budgetary management accountable, especially in the context of the annual discharge procedure. 
These bodies are primarily the European Commission, but also the other EU institutions and bodies. 
In areas under shared management, Member States also play an important role, such as expenditure on agricultural and cohesion measures. 
Our three most important products are: • Annual reports containing mainly the results of the audits of the accounts and compliance audits on the budget of the European Union and on the European Development Funds (EDFs), but also on budgetary and performance aspects. 
Special annual reports on the EU Agencies, decentralised bodies and Joint Undertakings are also published separately. • Special reports presenting the results of selected cost-effectiveness or compliance audits on specific expenditure or policy areas or on budgetary or management issues. • Opinions on new or amended acts affecting financial management and other analytical products produced either at the request of another institution or at the Court's own initiative. 
We strive to manage our resources in such a way as to ensure an appropriate relationship between our various activities. At the same time, the various areas of the EU budget will be well covered and solid results will be achieved. 
In 2015, we used a significant share of our resources to prepare the annual statements of assurance, which were then presented in our annual reports. 
The work underlying the Statement of Assurance covers the two aspects on which we have to issue an annual audit opinion under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. 
In addition, as far as possible, we take into account the work results of other auditors (see section on the audit of EU agencies on p. 14) and the management declarations in the form of the annual activity reports of the Directors-General of the Commission. 
In addition to the legally required audits, we select specific expenditure or policy areas at our discretion. This is based on criteria such as the risk of irregularities or inadequate performance, potential for improvement and public interest. 
We search for these topics completely independently, but take into account the views of our audience. 
In 2015, we produced 25 special reports, which are in particular the result of our performance audits. 
The summaries of the special reports are presented in this activity report (p. 15-33). 
In 2015, we issued eight opinions on proposals for new or amended rules and regulations (p. 34). 
In particular, we refer to our opinion on EFSI in order to clarify both the issue and the impact of our opinions. 
All audit reports and comments are available on our website (eca.europa.eu). 
Our activities 07 Audit reports and opinions 2013-2015 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total 91 2 Total 89 2 52 25 10* Total 77 2 50 19 6 51 24 14 * Annual Reports Special Annual Reports Special Reports Opinions and other statements Eight opinions and two summary reports on EU Agencies and Joint Undertakings. 2013 2014 2015 
Our activities 08 audit visits in 2015 While most of the audit work took place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, auditors also carried out audit visits to Member State authorities, other beneficiaries of EU funds inside and outside the European Union (including organisations involved in the allocation of EU funds, such as the European Investment Bank's regional offices in Kenya and Uganda) and other EU institutions, agencies and bodies. 
Through these visits, we obtained direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the authorisation, management, collection and disbursement of EU funds, as well as from the respective final recipients. 
Our audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the duration of an audit visit can be a few days, but also several weeks. 
The frequency and intensity of audit work in each Member State and beneficiary country depends on the type of audit and, where appropriate, sampling. 
The number of audit visits may therefore vary from country to country and year to year. 
Within the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States visited. 
In 2015, the Court's auditors spent 4 310 days of on-the-spot audits in Member States and outside the EU and obtained audit evidence for annual reports and selected audit tasks (special reports). 
They also spent a lot of time at the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU. 
On-site inspections took less days than in 2014. 
This is due to more efficient working methods and an increasing use of technologies such as the secure exchange of data and documents and videoconferencing. 
Although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we occasionally encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activities in our audit work. 
In combating fraud at the expense of the EU budget, the Court cooperates with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). 
We will forward any suspicion of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity to the detriment of the EU's financial interests that arise during our audit work. 
These cases will then be followed up by OLAF, which decides on possible investigations and, where appropriate, cooperates with Member State authorities. 
In 2015, we forwarded 27 cases of suspected fraud to OLAF (2014: 16 cases). 
Our activities 09 days on site in 2015 Italy Germany Poland Spain France United Kingdom Greece Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Netherlands Finland Austria Czech Republic Lithuania Ireland Denmark Slovakia Sweden Slovenia Malta Belgium Cyprus Latvia Estonia Luxembourg Switzerland Algeria Azerbaijan Egypt Uganda Serbia China United States Bosnia and Herzegovina Cuba Myanmar Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Eritrea Ghana Tanzania Norway Albania Haiti Papua New Guinea Rwanda Montenegro Ukraine Ethiopia Kenya Democratic Republic of Moldova Total 4 310 0 50 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 
Our activities 10 Annual Reports for the financial year 2014 The majority of our audits on accounting and compliance audits were devoted in 2015 to the implementation of the EU budget for 2014. 
The 2014 Annual Report, which emerged from this work, was published on 10 November 2015 and presented to our addressees, including the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the European Union (Economic and Financial Affairs Council), national parliaments and governments, and the media. 
The main objective of our annual report is to support the European Parliament, the Council and citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management by presenting findings and conclusions. 
In the 2014 Annual Report, we provide assurance on the use of EU funds in the financial year under consideration, highlighting the areas where the risk of improper use of EU funds was greatest. 
In addition, we analyse why errors have occurred and provide useful and cost-effective recommendations on possible improvements. 
We have revised the structure of our 2014 annual report to make the report more reader-friendly. 
The headings of the chapters now correspond to those of the headings of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. 
The key element of the report remains the Statement of Assurance, in which we deliver our audit opinion on the reliability of the EU's annual accounts and on compliance with revenue and expenditure rules. 
In addition, we have specifically assessed all of the EU's key areas of activity and provided extensive information on budgetary and financial management. 
The report also provides information on the performance of the EU budget and the Commission's performance reporting, in particular with a view to progress towards the Europe 2020 objectives. 
President Vítor Caldeira presented the 2014 annual report of the European Court of Auditors to the European Parliament. EU spending in 2014 amounted to EUR 142.5 billion = almost EUR 300 per citizen 
Our activities 11 The key statements of the 2014 Annual Report The European Court of Auditors calls for a new approach to EU investment and expenditure. The reliability of the EU accounts has been confirmed for 2014. Revenue was legal and regular in 2014. Payments were materially affected by errors in 2014. 
Conclusions and recommendations The 2014 EU accounts have been duly drawn up in accordance with international principles and provide a true and fair view. 
Therefore, we were once again able to give an unrestricted opinion on its reliability. 
However, we issued a failed audit opinion on the regularity of payments. The estimated level of error measuring the level of irregularities is 4.4 % for the 2014 payments. This is close to the error rate for 2013 (4.5 %) and consistently above the materiality threshold of 2 %. The estimated error rates we found were the same for expenditure under shared management with Member States and expenditure directly managed by the Commission (4.6 %). 
The highest error rates were determined for expenditure under the headings "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" (5.7 %) and "Competitiveness for growth and jobs" (5.6 %). 
For administrative expenditure, the lowest estimated error rate was established (0.5 %). There is a clear link between types of expenditure and error rates. 
The estimated error rate for cost reimbursement schemes (5.5 %) for which the EU reimburses eligible costs for eligible activities on the basis of cost statements prepared by beneficiaries is twice as high as the estimated level of error for schemes based on payment entitlements (2.7 %) where costs are not reimbursed but the payment depends on the fulfilment of certain conditions. Corrective action by the authorities in the Member States and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate. 
Without these measures, the estimated total error rate would have been 5.5 %. 
The Commission needs further improvement in the risk assessment and the impact of corrective measures. If the Commission, the Member State authorities and the independent auditors had used all the information available to them, they could have prevented, detect and correct a significant part of the errors before they were created. The amounts to be paid in the current and coming years remain very high. 
It is essential that the Commission take action to address this ongoing problem. 
The Partnership Agreements and Programmes do not sufficiently take into account the objectives of Europe 2020 by Member States. 
These two aspects allow the Commission to monitor and report on the performance and contribution of the EU budget to Europe 2020 only to a limited extent. The upcoming mid-term review of the 2014-2020 Multiannual Financial Framework is crucial for managing EU spending. 
It is important that the Commission analyses the areas with persistently high error rates as soon as possible, assesses the possibilities to reduce these levels of error while paying greater attention to the performance of expenditure. 
Our activities 12 Audit of transactions in each EU spending sector - Results for 2014 expenditure area Natural resources Economic, social and territorial cohesion Competitiveness for growth and jobs Europe in the world Administration Verified population and estimated error rate 5.6 % 2.7 % 0.5 % 3.6 % 5.7 % audit conclusion 57.5 billion euro 55.7 billion euro 13,0 billion Euro 7.4 billion Euro 8.8 billion Euro 0 20 40 60 billion Euro The table was taken from the short information on the EU 2014 audit available on our website (eca.europa.eu/en/euauditinbrief-2014). Materially affected by errors Not materially affected by errors 
Our activities 13 Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for 2014 revenue was not affected by errors. The payments were materially affected by errors. Under the EDF, the European Union grants funding for development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs). 
The EDFs are financed by Member States and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and, in the case of some aid, by the European Investment Bank. 
Their revenues were not materially affected by errors, while there was an estimated error rate of 3.8 % in payments. 
As in previous years, we found weaknesses in ex ante controls. 
The estimated error rate is almost two-thirds due to errors related to non-compliance with procurement rules and lack of supporting documents justifying expenditure. 
Our annual report on the EDFs is published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu). 
Our activities 14 Special Annual Reports for the financial year 2014 totalled around EUR 4 billion for all EU agencies, bodies and joint undertakings in 2014. 
EU agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings perform certain tasks on behalf of the EU and are based in different EU Member States. 
They operate in many areas, such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and transport, and each have their own mandate, management board, director, staff and budget. 
In 2015, we produced 52 special annual reports for the financial year 2014. 
They covered 41 decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other EU bodies, eight European Research Joint Undertakings, the European Schools, the Galileo Joint Undertaking in Liquidation and the Sisnet Communication Infrastructure. 
In addition, we published two summaries giving an overview of the results of our audits in this area (a summary of the EU agencies and other bodies and the other on the Joint Undertakings). 
These reports were submitted to the President of the European Parliament and the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Committee on Budgets. 
In 2014, the individual financial statements of the 33 EU decentralised agencies and other bodies were audited independently by a private audit firm for the first time. 
When preparing our audit opinions on these financial statements, we took into account this audit work and the measures taken by the audited bodies on the basis of the auditor's findings. 
The annual accounts of the other agencies and Joint Undertakings have been fully audited by us. 
We found the accounts of all agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings to be reliable in 2014. 
The transactions were legal and regular, except for Artemis (embedded ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and ECSEL (electronic components and systems). 
In general, agencies have further improved their procedures by taking corrective action following our comments from previous years. 
Our special annual reports as well as the two summaries of the results of our 2014 audits on the Agencies, Other Bodies and Joint Undertakings are available on our website (eca.europa.eu). 
52 Special Annual Reports on the EU Agencies, Other Bodies and Joint Undertakings, with headquarters throughout Europe, Europol, The Hague, Netherlands. 
Our activities 15 Special Reports prepared in 2015 In addition to our annual reports and special annual reports, we publish special reports throughout the year, which contain the results of the profitability and compliance audits we conduct on specific budgetary areas or management topics of our choice. 
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, we are keen to achieve maximum impact and thus use our resources in the best possible way. 
Our performance audits often cover several financial years, and their subject matter is complex, so it can take longer than a year to complete these audits. 
In 2015, the special reports focused in particular on the following topics: the overall EU objective of creating added value and growth, as well as the EU's response to global challenges such as the sustainability of public finances, the environment and climate change. 
Under the respective headings corresponding to the headings of the multiannual financial framework, the 25 special reports drawn up in 2015 are briefly presented. 
The main stages of a selected economic or compliance audit publication of the special report in 23 official languages, together with the response of the audited body. 
02 Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions. 
Preparation of recommendations. 
Determination of the usefulness and feasibility of a proposed audit. 
Definition of the scope, objectives, approach, methods and timetable of the audit. 
Our activities 16 100 80 60 40 20 0 Competitiveness for growth and jobs EUR 143 billion 13 % Smart and inclusive growth The "Smart and inclusive growth" heading accounts for most of the expenditure of the EU budget. 
This area covers the two sub-headings "Competitiveness for growth and jobs" and "Economic, social and territorial cohesion". 
The sub-heading "Competitiveness for growth and jobs" includes financial resources for trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, business development, research and innovation, education and training, social policy, etc. The planned expenditure in this area for 2014-2020 represents 13 % of the total EU budget for the programming period, i.e. EUR 143 billion. 
A budget of EUR 15.7 billion was earmarked for 2015. • Inland waterway transport in Europe: no significant improvements in transport mode share and navigability conditions since 2001 (No 1/2015) - This special report examines whether the projects co-financed by the EU budget have effectively contributed to increasing the transport mode share of freight transport by inland waterway vessels and improving navigability, and whether EU policies for inland waterway transport were coherent and based on relevant and comprehensive analyses. 
Projects co-financed by the EU have not been implemented effectively. As a result, inland waterway transport could not be established as an alternative to road freight or improved navigability. 
Although the Commission had made inland waterways a priority, Member States have paid little attention to inland waterways. 
There is no coherent overall strategy among Member States linked by the main shipping corridors, and river maintenance and political and environmental considerations are not sufficiently taken into account in EU strategies. 
Member States should prioritise inland waterway projects with the greatest and most immediate benefits, and the Commission should focus its resources on those projects that have advanced plans for the elimination of bottlenecks. 
The TEN-T programme, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund provided EUR 1.3 billion for EU inland navigation projects over the period 2007-2013. 
Our activities 17 • Is it appropriate to meet the needs of micro-entrepreneurs through financial support from the EU? 
(No 8/2015) - This special report analyses whether the needs of microenterprises are met by the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Progress Microfinance Facility. 
The auditors noted that the programming and design of the financial support provided by the ESF had weaknesses and that the provision of services was not adequately and reliably monitored. 
Neither the Commission nor the Member States had comparative information on the administrative costs of each Member State and financial mechanisms. 
These circumstances could affect the effectiveness of the EU's financial support to microenterprises. 
Member States should carry out needs assessments in the design of financial instruments and the development of operational programmes, which also provide for EU financial support to microenterprises. 
The Commission should make the use of ESF financial instruments by Member States conditional on the existence of robust risk management systems. 
In the case of microfinance, loans of less than EUR 25 000 are usually granted, often of less than EUR 10 000. 
The total demand in EU Member States for such financing is estimated at more than EUR 12 billion. 
Examples included in the report include the provision of EUR 5 000 for the development of a city kiosk and the provision of EUR 9 500 to support the creation of a playground and a clothing store. • Improving security of energy supply through the development of the internal energy market: Greater efforts are needed (No 16/2015) - This special report looks at whether the implementation of internal energy market policies and EU spending on energy infrastructure have effectively contributed to achieving benefits in the field of energy security. 
The audit found that in general, energy infrastructure in Europe is not yet geared towards fully integrated markets and therefore does not currently provide effective security of energy supply. 
Therefore, the Commission should identify energy infrastructures in the EU that are not actively used and work with Member States to remove the barriers to their use for the purposes of the internal energy market. 
In addition, the Commission should consider new ways to make energy from one Member State available to customers in another. 
The internal energy market should allow the free movement and trade of natural gas and electricity throughout the EU. 
Under the EU budget, EUR 3.7 billion was earmarked for the financing of energy infrastructure from 2007 to 2013, and a further 7.4 billion euros are expected between 2014 and 2020. 
However, the report points out that the EU's objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 has not been met. 
Our activities 18 Economic, social and territorial cohesion Smart and inclusive growth The sub-heading "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" covers regional policies aimed at helping the least developed countries and regions of the EU to follow up with the rest. The aim is to strengthen the competitiveness of all regions and to promote cooperation between them. 
Cohesion expenditure for 2014-2020 represents 34 % of the EU budget for the entire programming period, i.e. EUR 367 billion. 
EUR 100 80 60 40 20 0 367 billion Euro 34 % • efforts to solve public procurement problems in EU cohesion spending should be stepped up (No 10/2015) - This special report examines whether the Commission and the Member States take appropriate and effective measures to address the problem of public procurement errors in cohesion policy. 
The audit found that there are still widespread problems in public procurement across the EU. 
Although the Commission and the Member States have begun to address the issue, much remains to be done. 
Serious errors resulted in a lack of fair competition and that contracts were not awarded to the best bidders. 
Systematic analysis takes place only to a very limited extent and there is a lack of sufficiently accurate, reliable and coherent data on the nature and extent of errors. 
In the event that the situation does not improve by the end of 2016, it is recommended to suspend the payments of the 2014-2020 period to the Member States concerned. 
In the period 2007-2013, EUR 349 billion was earmarked for regional policy expenditure to be disbursed through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund and the European Social Fund. 
A substantial part of these funds will be spent through public procurement. 
Errors were found in around 40 % of the projects we audited in relation to our annual reports on the financial years 2009-2013 from the point of view of public procurement. 
Our activities 19 • EU financing of urban wastewater treatment plants in the Danube basin: In order to achieve the objectives of the EU wastewater policy, Member States need further support (No 2/2015) - This special report assesses the effectiveness of supporting Member States in the Danube basin with funding from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund in achieving the objectives of EU wastewater policy. 
The audit found that while the EU spending programmes had a significant share of the progress made in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, there were delays in compliance and use of available EU funds in all countries. 
Although the waste water in these countries' plants was generally adequately treated, the handling of sewage sludge and rain overflows was sometimes inadequate. 
One third of the plants were oversized and potentially unsustainable in the long term. 
The countries used the available EU funds only slowly, so that they were at risk of losing EU funding or requiring additional funding from national budgets. 
The Commission should tighten reporting requirements and Member States should establish legislation to ensure immediate access to public sewerage. 
The Commission and the Member States should establish criteria for all types of use of sewage sludge and ensure reliable monitoring of pollutants. 
The Danube catchment area is Europe's largest catchment area. 
The EU's contribution to wastewater treatment projects in the four Member States audited • amounted to 7.9 billion euro in the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods. Water quality in the Danube catchment area: Progress in the implementation of the Water Framework Directive but still needs for further action (No 23/2015) - This special report examines whether the implementation of the Water Framework Directive by the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia has led to a better quality of surface waters in the Danube River Basin. 
The audit revealed that there have been few improvements since 2004. 
The main reason for the limited progress was that Member States' plans were not ambitious enough. 
Targeted measures were lacking for water bodies with insufficient quality status. 
In addition, shortcomings in the monitoring systems led to a lack of data, both in terms of the type of pollution and sources of pollution, which caused a negative assessment of the status of water bodies. 
In addition, Member States took out a significant number of water bodies without sufficient justification for important deadlines. 
In the period 2007-2013, Member States in the Danube river basin received EUR 6.35 billion from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund for wastewater treatment. 
During the same period, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development provided EUR 6.39 billion to compensate farmers for agri-environmental measures. 
Our activities 20 • EU Youth Guarantee: The start is made, but implementation risks are foreseeable (No 3/2015) - this special report examines whether the Commission has adequately supported Member States in setting up the Youth Guarantee and whether there were potential implementation risks. 
The audit identified three risks that could prevent the effective implementation of the Youth Guarantee: the adequacy of the overall budget, the definition of a "high quality" job and the way the Commission monitors the Youth Guarantee and reports on the results. 
The auditors concluded that the Commission provided timely and appropriate support to Member States in implementing the Youth Guarantee. 
However, the Commission has not carried out an impact assessment indicating the expected costs and benefits, although this is a standard procedure. 
While the Commission had asked Member States to provide cost estimates when submitting their Youth Guarantee implementation plans, some did not provide the information needed. No Member State indicated the estimated cost of the required structural reforms. 
The Youth Guarantee was established in June 2013 in response to the deterioration of the situation of unemployed young people, aggravated by the economic and financial crisis. 
In the 2014-2020 period, the Youth Guarantee - through the European Social Fund and a dedicated Youth Employment Initiative - will be co-financed by the EU budget for a total of EUR 12.7 billion. • Commission support for youth action teams: Redeployment of ESF funds successfully but insufficient focus on results (No 17/2015) - This special report examines whether youth action teams made proposals in 2012 on how ESF funds can achieve faster and more effective results for unemployed young people, and whether these proposals have contributed to the redeployment of ESF funds. 
The auditors noted that although the youth action teams set up by the Commission succeeded in reallocating funds into projects to support young people, they submitted only limited proposals. 
The Commission provided advice to the Member States but was limited by the scope and quality of the information available. 
While the initiative led to reprogramming and reallocating funds from the European Social Fund, the Commission's assessment of the changes to the operational programmes focused mainly on their budgetary impact. 
If discrepancies arise between the promises made and the objectives actually achievable by the Commission, there should not be too high expectations for such initiatives. 
As part of its Youth Opportunities initiative, the Commission set up youth action teams in 2012. 
The teams were composed of experts from the eight Member States with the highest youth unemployment figures as well as experts from the Commission. 
The initiative concerned almost EUR 10 billion from the European Social Fund, which were still available in the Member States concerned. 
Our activities 21 Natural resources EUR 417 billion Sustainable growth: this heading covers the Common Agricultural and Fisheries Policy, Rural Development and EU environmental measures. 
Three-quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets. 
The expenditure planned for 2014-2020 accounts for almost 39 % of the total EU budget for this programming period, i.e. EUR 417 billion. 
A budget of EUR 56 billion was earmarked for 2015. 
100 80 60 40 20 0 39 % • Technical assistance: What contribution has it made in agriculture and rural development? 
(No 4/2015) - This special report examines the use of financial resources for technical assistance in agriculture and rural development during the 2007-2013 programming period. 
The audit focused on the regularity, effectiveness and efficiency of financing at the level of the Commission and the Member States. 
The audit found that neither the European Commission nor the Member States could demonstrate how well the use of technical assistance in agriculture and rural development has contributed to the economic use of the budget and to the objectives of the common agricultural policy. 
Rural networks aimed at promoting cooperation, knowledge sharing and innovation in the agricultural sector are very well suited as beneficiaries of technical assistance. 
However, in most cases, capacity building funding has been used to support general management budgets. 
For rural development, the Commission should clarify the scope and use of technical assistance in Member States and closely monitor its implementation. 
For the period 2007-2013, Member States had planned to use the EU budget of EUR 1.5 billion for technical assistance. This was subject to a ceiling of 4 % of the national financial framework available for rural development. 
For the period 2014-2020, this amount increased to around 1.9 billion euros. 
Our activities 22 • Are financial instruments in the field of rural development a successful and promising instrument? 
(No 5/2015) - This special report looks at whether the financial instruments (credit and guarantee funds) used under rural development policy have been well designed and managed during the 2007-2013 programming period. 
The audit revealed that the financial instruments have not yet been successful. 
This is mainly due to the fact that the financial instruments were overcapitalised and could not develop their potential in terms of the desired leverage and the revolving effect. 
There were no clear arguments for the introduction of financial instruments in the 2007-2013 programming period. 
Moreover, there was no reliable quantifiable information to justify the nature of the financial instruments set up, to determine the demand for financial instruments in the agricultural sector and to demonstrate that the amount of capital allocated to a fund was appropriate. 
Increased incentives should be provided for Member States to set up financial instruments in the field of rural development and to increase demand from farmers or other beneficiaries. In addition, adequate standards and targets regarding leverage and revolving effect should be established for the period 2014-2020. 
By the end of 2013, the EU and its Member States had invested around EUR 700 million in the guarantee and loan funds for rural development. 
The Commission wants Member States to commit to at least doubling the use of these instruments for the period 2014-2020. 
Close-up of an efficiency test: Integrity and implementation of the EU ETS (No 6/2015) The European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) differs to some extent from other policies and programmes that we consider as it does not receive significant funding from the EU budget. 
However, it has a very large impact on the implementation of policies in the EU and on the quality of life of citizens. 
The EU ETS was introduced in 2005 and is often referred to as a reference model for the development of climate change strategies and emissions trading systems elsewhere in the world. 
Therefore, an appropriate framework would be expected to ensure market regulation and supervision, legal certainty and systems for the management of essential information. 
The basic structures of the implementation systems should also be sufficiently sound. 
At the end of 2013, our auditors examined the framework for protecting the integrity of the EU ETS and the systems for the effective implementation of the programme at the Commission and in the Member States by Phase II (end of 2012). 
The audit was carried out on the basis of the risks involved in the creation of a functioning market for the implementation of the EU climate change policy and the difficulty of controlling an activity that is not tangible ("How to measure hot air?". 
Our auditors examined whether the EU ETS was adequately managed. 
To this end, they not only conducted desk checks and interviews with officials involved in the management of the EU ETS at the European Commission in Brussels, but also visited the competent authorities in five Member States (Germany, France, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom). 
In addition, documents were reviewed and experts consulted in two other countries (Greece and Spain). 
The auditors obtained further evidence by reviewing the documents of national authorities on 150 installations selected in these seven Member States. In addition, data from the EU Transaction Protocol 
Our activities 23 are analysed. The auditors were unable to inspect the installations on the ground, as they do not receive EU funding in the context of the ETS and therefore the Court does not have the access rights necessary for the audit. 
The evidence obtained by our auditors indicated a lack of supervision of the emission market and insufficient cooperation between regulators. 
For example, our auditors noted that the legal definition of certificates should be clarified and that the procedures for opening ETS accounts in the Union Registry and for monitoring transactions were not suitable to ensure sufficient controls against abuse. 
However, the initial situation was difficult: Member States were unable to effectively monitor cross-border transactions as they did not have direct access to the central database, and the Commission could not monitor the transactions because there was no legal basis to do so. 
In addition, our auditors noted that the systems for monitoring and reporting on emissions were not harmonised and that there were weaknesses in the control. In addition, the Commission's support and reporting by the Commission and the Member States were insufficient. 
From their findings, the auditors concluded that the framework for safeguarding market integrity is not sufficiently robust and that there have been significant weaknesses in implementation in the last phase, some of which require further action at this stage. 
However, our report also clearly shows that this innovative system has been continuously improved. 
At the time of publication of the report, the debate on possible reforms of the EU ETS focusing on the effectiveness of the system and on the management of excess allowances was still ongoing. 
However, in our report, we point out that consideration must also be given to the fundamental issues of market integrity and implementation, so that the EU can trust that this core instrument is sufficiently appropriate to meet the expectations of emission reductions and low-carbon technologies. 
We made some practical recommendations to the Commission and the Member States' authorities to improve market integrity and the implementation of the system in order to make the EU ETS a more powerful tool to achieve the climate targets by 2020 and beyond. 
The Commission agreed with the report's recommendation that significant remaining issues regarding the regulation and supervision of the emission market should be addressed in order to improve market integrity where appropriate. It also assured that many improvements have already been made for Phase III (2013-2020), taking into account in particular our comments. 
The report sparked great media interest and was presented to journalists accredited by the EU at a press conference in Brussels. 
In the EU and worldwide, the press reported that the EU ETS needs to be more closely supervised in order to improve the carbon market. In addition, the system needs to be more protected against market abuse, including the still high risk of VAT fraud. 
As is customary for all special reports, the Member responsible for the report - in this case Kevin Cardiff - presented the report to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and, in addition, to the Committees on the Environment of the European Parliament and of the Council, in order to inform them of the findings of the Court that could serve as a basis for future decisions on relevant rules and regulations. 
The Parliament and the Council welcomed our comments and recommendations and will take into account future proposals in order to improve the integrity and implementation of the system. 
Team of auditors (from left to right): Stefan Den Engelsen, Emese Fésňs, Kevin Cardiff and Colm Friel. 
Our activities 24 • Will the Fisheries Partnership Agreements be well managed by the Commission? 
(No 11/2015) - This special report examines whether the agreements are well managed. 
The auditors assessed the negotiation and implementation of the agreements, the monitoring of catches by the Commission and the selection and control of the measures financed. 
The audit found that while the agreements were generally well managed, the quantities negotiated were often higher than those reported for earlier periods. 
This regularly leads to incomplete use. 
As the EU makes full payments regardless of the de facto fishing activity, the actual costs were often higher than the negotiated price. 
There was also a lack of reliable, uniform and complete data on the actual catches of the EU fleet. 
When negotiating new schemes, the Commission should take into account previous utilisation rates, make payments more tied to actual catches and ensure that the new catch database is fully used by flag Member States and contains reliable catch data that can be monitored and kept up to date. 
The agreements aim to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries concerned by only allowing EU vessels to catch the surplus resources of partner countries. 
However, the auditors doubt that the so-called "surplus" can be reliably calculated because reliable information is missing. • The EU priority of promoting a knowledge-based economy in rural areas has been undermined by insufficient management of knowledge transfer and advisory measures (No 12/2015) - this special report examines in particular whether there are management and control systems to effectively implement knowledge transfer and advisory measures in the area of rural development. 
The audit found that the implementation of EU-funded VET and advisory programmes in rural areas is too expensive, often leads to duplication of existing programmes and favours incumbent training providers. 
The auditors identified poor administrative procedures in the Member States and insufficient monitoring by the European Commission. 
Member States relied too much on trainers' proposals and considered any type of training to be 'good' and eligible for public support. 
The lack of a fair and transparent selection resulted in long-standing and incumbent suppliers being repeatedly selected and receiving the majority of the funding. 
Member States should select training projects that meet skills needs identified in the context of a periodic analysis and should avoid the selection procedures being determined by the providers. 
The EU supports training and advisory projects in rural areas with funding from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. 
For the period 2007-2013, EUR 1.3 billion has been allocated to these projects. 
Together with the co-financing of the Member States, the total public support amounted to 2.2 billion euros. 
In the 2014-2020 period, the corresponding amount could be more than EUR 4 billion. 
Our activities 25 • The cost-effectiveness of EU rural development aid for non-productive investments in agriculture (No 20/2015) - This special report identifies in particular whether non-productive investments in agriculture (NPIs) are cost-effective and contribute to achieving the objective of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development to sustainably manage agricultural land during the 2007-2013 programming period. 
The auditors concluded that although NPI aid contributed to the achievement of the objectives, it was not cost-effective, as the costs for 75 % of the projects visited were unduly high. 
Many of these projects were fully funded by public funds, although they were clearly profitable. The auditors visited four Member States, which spent a total of 80 % of the total EU budget on NPIs: Portugal, Denmark, the United Kingdom (England) and Italy (Apulia). 
Only five of the 28 audited projects proved cost-effective. 
The report warns that lack of cost efficiency may not be limited to the sample as the identified problems were due to deficiencies in Member States' management and control systems. 
Non-productive investments are investments that do not generate significant revenues or revenues or significantly increase the value of the beneficiary's operations but have a positive impact on the environment. • EU rural infrastructure support: The funds could be used much more efficiently (No 25/2015) - This special report examines whether the European Commission and the Member States have achieved a good cost-benefit ratio by financing roads, water supply systems, schools and other institutions through rural development programmes. 
The audit found that while some infrastructure projects made a positive contribution in rural areas, Member States and the Commission achieved insufficient cost-benefit ratios under shared management. 
With the resources available, much more could have been achieved. The need for EU funding for rural development has not always been clearly justified by Member States. 
The risk of supporting projects that would have been implemented without EU funding has not been effectively managed. 
Since 2012, the Commission has taken a more proactive and coordinated approach. 
If implemented properly, this should lead to better financial management in the 2014-2020 period. 
Under rural development programmes, EU funds of EUR 13 billion were allocated to rural infrastructure between 2007 and 2013. 
Our activities 26 100 80 60 40 20 0 Foreign policy EUR 65 billion 6 % Europe in the world The heading "Europe in the world" covers the EU's external relations (the "external policy"), including enlargement matters, as well as the EU's development and humanitarian aid. 
For the 2014-2020 programming period, the EU allocated 6 % of its total planned expenditure, i.e. EUR 65 billion, to these objectives. 
For 2015, the budget amounted to 7.5 billion euro. 
Additional appropriations will be made available through the European Development Fund, which is not part of the EU budget and is therefore not covered by the multiannual financial framework. • EU Police Mission in Afghanistan: mixed results (No 7/2015) - This special report assesses whether the EU Police Mission (EUPOL) has been well planned and coordinated, whether it has received adequate operational support and appropriate guidance, whether it has contributed to progress in the Afghan National Police and whether its exit has been adequately prepared. 
The audit revealed that EUPOL has met conditionally the objective of contributing to the development of a sustainable and efficient civilian police force under Afghan ownership. 
In an environment characterised by the lack of a trained, fully functioning Afghan police force, high illiteracy rate and widespread corruption within the Afghan police and justice systems, EUPOL has succeeded in contributing to the reform of the Ministry of Interior and the professionalisation of the National Police. 
However, given the persistent systemic weaknesses in the police and judiciary sectors in Afghanistan, there is a risk that the results achieved by EUPOL and more generally in the Afghan police sector after the end of the mission will not be maintained at the end of 2016. 
EUPOL's total costs for the period May 2007 to December 2014 amounted to almost EUR 400 million, with security costs accounting for almost one third of this amount. 
At the end of 2014, the EU deployed a total of 32 Common Security and Defence Policy missions, 16 of which were completed and completed and 16 still ongoing. 
Our activities 27 • EU support for the fight against torture and the abolition of the death penalty (No 9/2015) - This special report assesses the effective promotion of the prevention of torture, the rehabilitation of victims of torture and the abolition of the death penalty under the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights. 
The audit showed that although EU-funded projects have an impact, the projects are often not targeted enough and have a limited range of actions, as the funds are distributed according to the watering can principle. 
While the allocation of funds was generally appropriate, the Commission did not take sufficient account of the priorities of each country in the field of human rights. 
Projects were often not well coordinated with other EU policies such as development aid and political dialogue. 
They were generally carried out by dedicated and competent organisations. 
The auditors' recommendations related to the targeting of financial resources, better coordination with other EU actions, selection and improvement of project proposals, performance measurement and sustainability of the beneficiary organisations. 
The European Union operates through diplomatic channels and grants to non-governmental organisations through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights. 
Over the period 2007-2013, around 180 grants totalling more than EUR 100 million were awarded to projects to combat torture and abolish the death penalty. • EU support to timber producing countries under the FLEGT Action Plan (No 13/2015) - This special report examines whether the Commission has well managed the support provided under the EU FLEGT Action Plan to combat illegal logging. 
The auditors noted that while the Action Plan is a welcome initiative, the results are generally leaner. 
Aid has not been granted to wood-producing countries on the basis of clear criteria and its impact has been diluted due to the large number of competing countries. 
The countries concerned made very different progress. 
The lack of progress is due in particular to the lack of adequate planning by the Commission and no clear priorities in the allocation of timber-producing countries. 
The auditors recommended that the Commission set clear objectives and set the means to achieve them. 
Four Member States still need to fully implement the EU Timber Regulation, which was introduced to prevent the import of illegal timber into the EU market. 
Over the period 2003-2013, 35 countries received EUR 300 million under the Action Plan. 
Two of these countries, Indonesia and Ghana, made good progress towards a complete permit system for their timber. 
In general, however, there was little progress and many countries had difficulties in overcoming the hurdles that hindered responsible policy making. 
In the 12 years since the Commission's implementation of the Action Plan, no partner country has succeeded in establishing a fully recognised licensing system. 
Our activities 28 • The ACP Investment Facility: Does it offer added value? 
(No 14/2015) - This special report assesses whether the Investment Facility has added value to EU development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries. 
The audit showed that the Investment Facility actually provides added value for EU development cooperation with ACP countries and fits well into the EU's policy objectives. 
At the end of 2014, credit lines accounted for 28 % of the Facility's portfolio, compared to 14 % at the end of 2010. 
The increased share reflects the continued importance of the long-term financing provided by the Facility. 
In a positive sense, the Facility also acted as a catalyst by mobilising additional funds. 
However, the auditors noted that the contractual obligation to inform final beneficiaries about the financing by the European Investment Bank (EIB) or the Investment Facility is not always met and technical assistance is not always targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises. 
They made recommendations to address these problems. 
The ACP Investment Facility, established in 2003, receives its capital from the European Development Fund and is managed by the EIB. 
Under the Facility, development projects worth EUR 5.7 billion have been approved over the past decade. 
The Facility provides medium to long-term financing with the objective of achieving sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits. • Promotion of renewable energy in East Africa from the ACP-EU Energy Facility (No 15/2015) - This special report examines whether the Commission has successfully deployed the Energy Facility to improve access for poor populations to renewable energy in East Africa. 
The audit showed that some significant achievements were achieved, but that the Facility still needs to be better monitored. 
Although the Commission has made a good selection among the proposed projects, the project progress has not been closely monitored. 
Project managers' reports were of varying quality and the Commission did not make efforts to enforce reporting obligations. 
For projects known to have been affected by serious problems, Commission staff carried out too few on-the-spot visits and monitoring inspections to complete the information provided by the controllers. 
The report made recommendations with a view to tightening the selection, monitoring and sustainability of future projects. 
By mid-2014, a total of 268 million euros were granted, of which 106 million euros for projects in East Africa, which had by far the lowest access to electricity in Africa. 
Our activities 29 • Analysis of risks related to a result-oriented approach to EU action in the field of development and cooperation (No 21/2015) - The Special Report was drawn up in view of the increased interest recently in shifting the focus of EU development and cooperation policy away from activities to results. 
The auditors identified nine major risk activities: an inconsistent outcome-based terminology or no logical chain between measures, outputs, effects and impacts; increased complexity due to the inclusion of cross-cutting issues in EU programmes; the lack of harmonisation of aid delivery tools, outcome frameworks and accountability structures of development partners; Weaknesses in evaluation and results reporting; a lack of consolidated reports or an overview of the results of EU assistance; a lack of sufficient, relevant, reliable and up-to-date data; focusing on the budgetary outcome as an objective; Changes in the context of measures. 
The audit showed that these risk areas have been correctly recognised by the Commission in numerous different documents. 
However, further action is needed to exploit the full potential of the Commission's initiatives and to improve the EU's development and cooperation results. 
Against this background, a number of recommendations have been made which the Commission should take into account. 
Our activities 30 100 80 60 40 20 0 Financial and economic governance The EU economic governance framework aims to address problematic financial and economic trends, such as excessive government deficits or sovereign debt that can dampen growth and jeopardise the sustainability of public finances. 
Part of this framework is the establishment of the EU Banking Union. 
Following the 2014 report on the European Banking Authority, this special report was the second one we published on the subject. 
In 2008, Europe faced a financial crisis that turned into a sovereign debt crisis. 
The sovereign debt crisis was a consequence of different factors. These included weak banking supervision, insufficient fiscal policies and the difficulties encountered by large financial institutions (and the resulting costs of rescuing them, which were borne by the general public). 
The crisis broke in two waves across the EU Member States. It first met non-euro area countries in 2008-2009 and later spread to the euro area itself. 
Our auditors examined how the European Commission managed, during the crisis, the financial assistance provided under the Balance of Payments Facility and the European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism, for which the Commission received funds in the capital markets, with the EU budget serving as a guarantee. 
The audit related to the financial assistance granted to Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Ireland and Portugal. Particular attention was paid to the Commission's role in these programmes. 
In addition, our auditors analysed the Commission's cooperation with its partners - the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Washington. 
They obtained audit evidence through in-depth reviews and analysis of documents, as well as through discussions with Commission staff, national authorities, the ECB and the IMF. 
The partners and the decisions taken at EU political level were not the subject of the audit. 
The audit revealed that the European Commission was not prepared for the first requests for financial assistance during the 2008 financial crisis, as warning signals were overlooked. This explains to a large extent the initially clear weaknesses in their administrative processes. 
The auditors identified four main problem areas of the Commission's crisis management: different approaches, limited quality control, insufficient monitoring and deficiencies in documentation. 
For example, they found several examples where countries were not treated equally in similar situations. In some programmes, overall conditions for assistance were less stringent and therefore easier to meet. 
They also noted that the Commission's teams had insufficiently reviewed key documents, the underlying calculations were not reviewed by anyone outside the team, the work of the experts was not thoroughly checked and the verification process was not sufficiently documented. 
Our activities 31 In the opinion of the auditors, however, despite lack of experience, the Commission has succeeded in carrying out its new administrative tasks and launching the grant programmes relevant to the reform process, which is to be regarded as a success given the time constraints. 
Furthermore, the auditors noted that the Commission was increasingly building up internal expertise in the further course of the crisis and working with a wide range of stakeholders in the countries concerned. Improvements in macroeconomic surveillance have also been introduced in subsequent reforms. 
For example, the programme's targets were met, the adjusted deficit targets were broadly met, structural deficits improved and Member States met much of the conditions of their programmes, albeit with some delays. 
In most cases, countries continued the reforms imposed on the basis of programme conditions and in four out of the five countries the current account adjustment was faster than expected. 
Our auditors pointed out that there are still a number of weaknesses and that the Commission needs to improve its procedures for managing financial assistance. 
We have made a number of recommendations to the European Commission to ensure that financial assistance will be managed more solidly in the future when Member States experiencing difficulties ask for assistance. 
The report found a broad echo, especially in the European media, but also in the United States and Australia. 
Like our other special reports, he is presented by our member Baudilio Tomé Muguruza responsible for the report to the addressees in the European Parliament and the Council. 
Team of auditors (from left to right): Didier Lebrun, Ignacio García de Parada, Kristian Sniter, Josef Jindra, Giuseppe Diana, Baudilio Tomé Muguruza, Adrian Savin, Daniela Hristova, Zacharias Kolias, Marco Fians and Daniel Costa de Magalhăes. 
Our activities 32 • EU supervision of credit rating agencies is based on sound foundations, but is not yet fully effective (No 22/2015) - This special report examines whether the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has successfully established itself as a supervisor through the credit rating agencies in the EU. 
As a result of the financial crisis in 2008, credit rating agencies and their influence on financial markets have become increasingly prominent. 
At that time, credit rating agencies in Europe were hardly regulated. 
The audit found that while ESMA has established good foundations, its rules and guidelines are not complete and that there are still significant risks to be addressed. 
The auditors noted that ESMA was able to shorten the average duration of the registration procedure, but the procedure remains complex. 
Although the rating methods should be rigorous, systematic, consistent and subject to validation, ESMA's activities focus mainly on whether the methodologies are strict. 
The current framework for credit assessments in the Eurosystem does not ensure that all credit rating agencies registered with ESMA operate on an equal footing. This creates a two-class market structure that puts small credit rating agencies in an unfavourable situation. 
The auditors submitted some recommendations to ESMA regarding the registration procedure, the traceability of the risk identification process, supervisory procedures and IT systems. • Technical assistance for Greece: Improved delivery requires a stronger focus on results (No 19/2015) - this special report examines whether the Task Force for Greece has fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance to Greece has effectively contributed to the reform process. 
The Task Force was set up by the Commission in 2011 to support Greece's economic adjustment with numerous technical assistance measures. 
The auditors examined whether the Task Force has fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance has effectively contributed to the reform. 
They obtained evidence from the Commission, service providers, Greek ministries and other stakeholders. 
The audit showed that the Greek authorities received technical assistance under the mandate, but this has not always been sufficiently advanced by the reforms. 
Due to the urgency of the situation, the task force was set up in no time and without full analysis of other options or a separate budget. 
The Task Force did not have a bundled, comprehensive strategy document to provide technical assistance or set priorities. 
The assistance provided was relevant and broadly met the programme requirements, and the Task Force developed a flexible and diversified implementation system. However, there were weaknesses at project level. 
Greek Parliament Building, Athens, Greece. 
Our activities 33 Other 8.2 % 100 80 60 40 20 0 VAT 12.8 % TOR 13.3 % GNI 65.7 % Revenue The EU budget is mainly financed by revenue from three types of own resources. 
These include own resources based on gross national income (GNI) and value added tax (VAT) and traditional own resources (TOR), in particular customs duties on products imported into the EU and sugar levies. 
In addition, the EU receives taxes levied on EU staff salaries, contributions from third countries to certain EU programmes and fines from companies that violate EU rules and regulations. 
EU expenditure must be fully covered by revenue. 
In 2015, revenues amounted to 141.3 billion euros. • Fight against intra-Community VAT fraud: Further action is needed (No 24/2015) - This special report examines whether the EU effectively combats intra-Community VAT fraud. 
As a result of organised crime, the European Union misses annual VAT revenues of between 40 billion and 60 billion euros. 
Since the export of goods and services from one EU Member State to another is exempt from VAT, criminals in both countries can fraudulently evade taxes. 
As a result, both the countries concerned and the EU are deprived of revenue. 
The audit identified significant weaknesses indicating insufficient effectiveness of the current system. 
In order to combat intra-Community VAT fraud, the EU has a wide range of instruments, but some of these instruments need to be improved or applied more uniformly. 
In most Member States visited, there are no effective cross-checks between customs and tax data; Member States' tax authorities exchange VAT information, but there are problems in terms of accuracy, completeness and timeliness of the data; there is a lack of cooperation and there are overlaps of competence between administrative, judicial and law enforcement authorities. 
In order to improve the system, action must be taken by Member States, the European Parliament and the European Commission. 
Our activities 34 opinions in 2015 Also with our opinions on proposals for new or amended legal acts with financial implications, we contribute to improving EU financial management. 
These opinions are delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and used by the legislative authorities - Parliament and Council - in their work. 
We can also issue position papers and analyses on other issues on our own initiative. 
In 2015, we published eight opinions on a number of key areas: • Opinion No 1/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Regulation on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union; • Opinion No 2/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the financial rules of the Community Plant Variety Office; • Opinion No 3/2015 on a proposal for the Financial Regulation of the Single Resolution Board; • Opinion No 4/2015 on the proposal for a regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) (further details in the box); • Opinion No 5/2015 on a proposal for an amendment of the Regulation of the Committee on Budgets of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market; • Opinion No 6/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Financial Regulation of the Single Resolution Board; • Opinion No 7/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Regulation on traditional, VAT and GNI own resources and measures to make the necessary cash available; • Opinion No 8/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Financial Regulation for the 11st European Development Fund. 
In focus: Opinion on EFSI In response to the fall in investment since 2007, the Commission launched an "In-vestition offensive for Europe" in November 2014. 
The Investment Plan is based on the intervention logic that there is high investment needs in Europe and numerous economically viable projects for which funding sources are sought. 
The challenge is to make productive use of savings and financial liquidity to promote sustainable employment and growth in Europe. 
The Investment Plan is to be implemented without burdening national budgets and new debt. 
From this Investment Plan to its full implementation, the Commission expects the creation of 1 million to 1.3 million new jobs and the mobilisation of additional (mainly long-term) investment funds of at least EUR 315 billion over the period 2015-2017. High expectations are placed on the Commission's initiative. 
In order to contribute to the success of this initiative, our opinion drew attention to issues related to governance and legal frameworks, accountability and external audit arrangements, as well as financial liabilities to the public budgets. 
We also pointed out that an adequate level of transparency and accountability for public funds should be ensured for instruments where the EU cooperates with the private sector. 
The performance of these instruments should also be measured by the extent to which the objectives pursued by the activities financed are achieved. 
We drew attention to the fact that the proposal does not clearly describe the agreements between the Commission and the European Investment Bank. 
Our opinion has been taken into account by the legislators in Regulation (EU) 2015/1017 on EFSI. 
Our activities 35 contribute to EU accountability through high-level events and conferences We organise conferences on topics where we have identified risks and can contribute to the EU's accountability through our auditing expertise. This will raise awareness of the importance of sound financial management and control of EU finances. 
In 2015, we organised the two conferences described below, which are in line with our strategic goal of working with our partners in the process of EU accountability. 
During the year, we also organised seminars with internal and external experts on our premises to share knowledge of recent developments in EU policy and to use information for the planning and implementation of our audits. 
For example, a seminar was held in October focusing on the progress made in the reform of the common agricultural policy. The seminar was attended by representatives of the Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development. 
On 5 May 2015, we held a conference on energy security in the EU in Brussels to provide a neutral and independent platform for stakeholders from EU institutions, Member States, energy industry and universities to discuss the challenges the EU faces in the field of energy security. 
Our President Vítor Caldeira opened the conference and Maroš Šefcovic, one of the Vice-Presidents of the Commission, gave an introductory presentation. 
Our members Szabolcs Fazakas and Phil Wynn Owen From left to right: Szabolcs Fazakas, Maroš Šefcovic, Vítor Caldeira and Phil Wynn Owen led the conference, which included panel discussions on the following two main areas: Obstacles to the completion of the internal energy market and Ukraine's important contribution to European energy supply as a significant transit country. 
We organised this conference as the EU faces a number of major challenges linked to each other in this area. 
These include the creation of an internal energy market to improve the competitiveness of the European economy, combat climate change and increase energy security. 
In our tests, we are increasingly focusing on energy and climate issues. 
For example, we have already produced special reports on topics such as the internal energy market and security of energy supply, energy efficiency and renewable energies. 
In addition, further reports are planned in this area, including on EU support to Ukraine and on EU spending on climate action, as well as a landscape analysis on energy and climate issues in the EU. 
Our goal is to create added value for the EU's energy policy. With this conference, we have shown that we also want to support a democratic debate on these issues. 
Our activities 36 ECA Conference on the Future of Development Assistance From 20 to 21 October 2015, we organised an international conference on European development assistance in Luxembourg on the occasion of the European Year for Development, the adoption of the new Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council. 
At the beginning of the two-day conference chaired by our Member Daničle Lamarque, our President Vítor Caldeira took the floor, followed by the Luxembourg Minister for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Affairs Romain Schneider on behalf of the EU Presidency, the Chair of the European Parliament's Committee on Development Linda McAvan, EU Commissioner for Development Neven Mimica and UN Under-Secretary-General Grete Faremo. 
The conclusions of the conference were summarised by Marc Angel, Chair of the Committee on Foreign and European Affairs and on Defence of the Luxembourg Chamber of Deputies. 
The EU is the world's largest donor of development aid and works with many public and private partners, including international organisations, foundations, non-governmental organisations and states. 
It is becoming increasingly important to ensure the effectiveness of the aid, which can be achieved by paying close attention to the criteria for its allocation and evaluation. 
In this context, the Court plays an important role. 
The United Nations' new Sustainable Development Goals for the period 2015-2030 are more ambitious than the previous Millennium Development Goals and encourage the addressees to "think and act differently". 
Participants agreed on the need to align development aid with environmental, energy and migration policies and other policy areas and involve new stakeholders. 
In addition, development agencies need to adapt to the increasing diversification of financing and financial instruments: Innovative financial instruments contribute to greater leverage and convergence with market conditions, but at the same time make it more difficult to make financial decisions and determine the added value of aid. 
The European Commission gave a presentation on what a result-oriented budget should look like, specifying more clearly how EU funds will be spent and what results will be achieved. 
The Court also participates in the joint inter-institutional working group set up for this purpose. 
Our activities 37 Relations with the addressees The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union The value of our contribution to EU accountability depends to a large extent on the benefits our key partners in the legislative process and accountability draw from our work results and products. 
These partners are the political institutions responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funding: the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the national parliaments. 
In line with our strategy for the period 2013-2017, we have paid particular attention to improving our working relations with Parliament and the Council. 
The President and Members of the Court maintain regular contacts with the European Parliament's committees, in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT), which is our main partner. 
In 2015, President Vítor Caldeira presented our annual work programme and annual reports in two CONT meetings. He also presented the annual reports in two plenary sessions of the Parliament and participated in the discharge debate. 
At the initiative of Ville Itälä, our member responsible for institutional relations, President Caldeira also presented our work programme for 2015 at the Conference of Committee Chairs and was informed about their priority areas in order to plan our work programme for 2016. 
In October 2015, CONT hosted a working visit to the Court, thus continuing the practice of annual bilateral meetings at the Court's premises in Luxembourg. In addition, our representatives participated in visits to Member States (Greece) and beneficiary countries (Serbia) organised by CONT. 
In 2015, our members represented the Court in 29 CONT meetings to discuss our annual and special reports. 
In addition, our members presented nine special reports to the committees concerned. 
We also organised a joint meeting with Parliament's Agriculture and Environment Committees to discuss issues of common interest and started working with Parliament's Research Service to promote a more efficient exchange of knowledge between our audit chambers and the service. 
We also worked more closely with the Council to strengthen and improve relations with the Council and its respective Presidency. 
In November, Presidents Caldeira and Pierre Gramegna, Luxembourg Finance Minister and Chairman of the ECOFIN Council met during the Luxembourg Presidency to discuss follow-up actions based on our 2014 Annual Report during the 2014 discharge procedure. 
We presented our work programme for 2015 and 15 special reports to various Council working groups. 
In addition, we presented the various chapters of the annual report to the Council's Committee on Budgets as the basis for the discharge procedure. 
Annual meeting of the Court's representatives with the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament. 
38 Strengthening partnerships with national parliaments and authorities During the year, we worked closely with our addressees in the Member States. 
We systematically informed the national parliaments of our work. 
In addition, the President and Members of the Court presented the annual report to the national parliaments and authorities of most Member States. 
In addition, we held meetings with representatives of national parliaments and authorities at the Court's premises and in the Member States. 
We continued our initiative, launched in 2014, to organise high-level visits to EU Member States to deepen our partnerships with national authorities responsible for managing and auditing EU finances. 
In April 2015, a high-level delegation of the Court visited Poland to highlight the importance of public financial control and accountability for EU funds, to improve the visibility of the Court in this regard and to launch a dialogue with the Polish authorities concerned. 
These included meetings with Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski, head of the Prime Minister's Chancellery, both chambers of Parliament, state authorities and local authorities, and in particular the SAI of Poland. 
The main topic of the talks was accountability and public control. We also referred to our recent landscape analysis of the EU rules on accountability and public financial control. 
Meetings with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development provided an opportunity to discuss our landscape analyses, the results of relevant audits and best practices. 
Our delegation visited two EU-funded projects. One is managed by the public authorities, the other is managed by a private beneficiary. 
The high-level visit to Poland was complemented by visits to the Czech Republic (June 2015) and Bulgaria (November 2015). 
In the Czech Republic, our representatives met with the President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman, the Prime Minister and representatives of the Parliament. 
They also attended a joint meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies, which discussed the results of audits in the areas of common agricultural policy and cohesion of the previous programming period relevant to the Czech Republic. 
During this visit, our representatives contributed to the conference on electronic data and its importance for future audits organised by the SAI of the Czech Republic. 
During the visit to Bulgaria, our delegation met with President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rosen Plevneliev, Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, President of Parliament Tsetska Tsacheva and other representatives of Parliament. 
In addition, the members of the delegation attended a conference on the importance of external audit for effective public sector management, organised on the 135th anniversary of the establishment of the SAIs of Bulgaria and the 20th anniversary of the resumption of their activities. 
From left to right: Vítor Caldeira (President of the European Court of Auditors), Krzysztof Kwiatkowski (President of the SAI of Poland) and Augustyn Kubik (Polish Member of the European Court of Auditors). 
Our activities 39 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (SCAIs). This cooperation is mainly carried out through • the Contact Committee of the SAIs of the EU Member States; • the network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • international organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI). 
In accordance with the EU Treaty, the ECA and the national audit bodies cooperate with confidence while respecting their independence. 
Cooperation with the SAIs of the EU Member States is actively carried out within the framework of the Contact Committee. This includes an annual meeting and various working groups, networks and task forces dealing with specific issues of common interest. 
In 2015, the Contact Committee met in Riga. 
At their meeting, the members of the Contact Committee spoke about the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI), preventing and combating irregularities and fraud, and the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020. 
Questions on the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) were also addressed. 
The Contact Committee adopted a declaration on the accountability and financial control arrangements of the Single Supervisory Mechanism addressed to national parliaments and governments as well as to the EU institutions and bodies concerned. 
In addition, the Contact Committee agreed with the proposal to carry out parallel audits on the introduction of the SSM and the contribution of the Structural Funds to the Europe 2020 strategy and to the underlying risks to the sustainability of public finances. 
In November 2015, the Court invited to a kick-off meeting of the Structural Funds Working Group VII, where a work plan for a new multilateral parallel audit should be drawn up to identify the extent to which EU grants in the fields of education and employment make an effective contribution to the Europe 2020 strategy. 
Network of Supreme Audit Institutions of Candidate Countries and potential candidate countries The cooperation between the Court and the SAIs of the candidate countries and the potential candidate countries is primarily carried out through a network1 comparable to the Contact Committee. 
In the course of 2015, we continued to support the network in carrying out a parallel performance audit on energy efficiency. 
The last workshop on this project took place in May 2015 at the Court's premises in Luxembourg. 
We are involved in the preparation of new projects to start in 2016 focusing on performance audits and audits of the accounts. 
In May 2015, representatives of the Court attended an event celebrating the 90th anniversary of the establishment of the SAI of Albania. 
On this occasion, President Caldeira and President of the Republic of Albania Bujar Nishani met. 
Eight examiners from the ORKB network took part in our internship program for 2015. 
1 In January 2015, the Network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and one potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina). 
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has participated as an observer in the network. * This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the ICJ Opinion on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence. 
Our activities 40 Multilateral (INTOSAI - EUROSAI) and bilateral cooperation In 2015, we continued our active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI, especially in the respective working bodies. 
In November, with effect from the International Congress of Supreme Audit Institutions (INCOSAI), the Vice-Chair of the Technical Standards Committee of INTOSAI was delegated to the Court at the end of 2016. 
We also responded to the request of the SAI of Ukraine, which chaired the Working Group on Disaster Assistance Review, to host the first meeting of this working group. 
The Court is also an active member of the EUROSAI Task Force on Audit and Ethics, which aims to promote ethical behaviour and integrity in SAIs and public institutions. 
The main objective of the Task Force is to create and strengthen a framework for the promotion of ethical behaviour by providing the SAIs with appropriate practice-oriented guides and tools to support the day-to-day audit work. 
We participated in the 5th joint EUROSAI-ARABOSAI conference, which dealt with the supervision of state rescue plans, as well as in the 2nd joint EUROSAI-ARABOSAI conference. Young EUROSAI conference, which gave young examiners the opportunity to discuss questions on current issues. 
In addition, we visited the ORKB's Global World Leadership Forum, whose main topic was the role of public sector auditors in 2030. 
The Court maintains good bilateral relations with other SAIs. 
In 2015, for example, our delegation participated in an international seminar organised by the SAI of Poland for auditors from Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine in Warsaw. 
The members of the delegation spoke to the SAIs of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and the Slovak Republic about their experience with further development and capacity building to prepare for accession to the EU and provided training on our compliance and performance audit methodologies. 
Working with SAIs as part of international peer reviews is a common method to support best practices and promote quality assurance. 
INTOSAI's peer reviews subcommittee is responsible for keeping up to date the ISSAI 5600 peer review guide (ISSAI stands for International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions). 
In 2015, we contributed decisively to the revision of this guide, which will be submitted for adoption to the INCOSAI Congress in 2016. 
In addition, we played a leading role in the international peer reviews of the SAIs of Latvia, Spain and Switzerland. 
The expert assessment of the SAI of Latvia was very comprehensive and focused on methods and procedures for auditing accounting, compliance and performance audit and the efficiency of the support functions. 
The expert assessment of the SAI of Spain, led by the SAI of Portugal, also covered many aspects of the functioning of this institution. 
We were the sole assessor in the expert assessment of the SAI of Switzerland. 
As part of the evaluation, the appropriateness of the SAI's strategy as well as its planning and quality control processes were assessed. 
Our management 41 The College of the Court belongs to the College of the Court of Auditors from each Member State. 
Members shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, in accordance with the proposals of each Member State for a term of office of six years. 
In accordance with the Treaty, Members shall carry out their activities in full independence and for the general good of the European Union. 
The President shall be elected by members from among them for a period of three years. 
The terms of office of the President and Members are renewable. 
Most members are assigned to one of the five chambers. The boards adopt audit reports, opinions and position papers and take decisions on further strategic and administrative issues. 
In addition, each member is primarily responsible for his or her own duties in the area of examination. 
The member, with the support of his cabinet, coordinates the respective auditors' teams. 
It then takes over the presentation of the reports, opinions or position papers for adoption by the Chamber and/or the entire Court College and subsequently in Parliament, the Council and other relevant addressees, including the media. 
In selected cases and at the initiative of the members, a report may also be presented to the authorities of the Member States concerned. 
One of the members - Ville Itälä - is responsible for institutional relations. 
In 2015, on a proposal from the Member State and after consulting the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union appointed Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) as a member of the Court. 
The mandate shall apply from 1 September 2015 to 28 February 2018, i.e. the remainder of the current term of office of the previous Danish member Henrik Otbo, who died suddenly in February 2015. 
The College of the Court at 31. December 2015. 
Our management 42 organisation chart of the European Court of Auditors President Chamber I Preservation and Management of Natural Resources Chamber II Structural Policies, Transport and EnergyChamberIII External Policies Chamber IV Revenue, Research and Internal Policies and Institutions of the European Union CEAD Chamber Coordination, Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Augustyn KUBIK Poland Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Milan Martin CVIKL Slovenia Igors LUDBORŽS Latvia Jan KINŠŠT Czech Republic Ladislav BALKO Slovakia Szcabols Italy FAZAGAS Hungary Louis GALEA Malta Keros 
Our management 43 strategy of the Court for 2013-2017: the objective of our five-year strategy is to maximise the value of our contribution to the EU's public accountability. 
Our main priorities for achieving this objective are set out in the following figure: Many of the initiatives launched under the strategy have already been implemented. 
We have broadened the range of outputs, intensified and expanded our relationships with our addressees, accelerated our audit processes, and improved the way we measure our own performance. 
In 2015, the Court decided to reform its organisational structure. 
In this way, we will take into account the European Parliament's recommendations on the Court's future role and the results of the international peer review process carried out in 2014 on our performance audits. 
The Court's strategic priorities for 2013-2017 COMMISSION OF THE PRODUCTS OF THE HOF ON THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMITTEE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT WITH OUR PARTNERS IN THE PROCESS OF THE RECISION CONTRACT TO THE PERFORMANCE OF THE HOUSE AND THE PROCESSING OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGULATION 03 04 OPTIMARY POLICY OF THE HOUSE knowledge of the fact that the HOFES AS A PROFESSIONAL Examination Body 01 05 02 
Our management 44 reform of the Court ZIEL 1 ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTION OF THE audit process ZIEL 2 INTRODUCTION A task-based organisational model FLEXIBLES REAGING in a narrowly altered timeline FLEXIBLE REGULATION OF RESSOURCES FOR VORRANGIGE Examinations TIMEDITION OF PRODUCED COMMUNICATION preparation of the Strategy for the period 2013-2017 Peer review by the SAIs of Germany, France and Sweden's European Parliament Report on the future role of the Court of Auditors Preparing for a task-based organisational model Flexible and adaptable Court of Auditors 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016-10 key actions - Consultation - General design - Detailed design - Pilot projects - Implementation - Training and other measures MASSNAHMEN IMPULS GRUNDPRINZIP 
Our management 45 Flexible response in a rapidly changing environment We have developed a new work planning process that allows us to plan our work on the basis of our overall priorities and a comprehensive risk assessment. 
When planning our work, we now systematically take into account the points of view of the addressees in order to ensure the greatest possible relevance of our reports. 
With the support of our Member responsible for institutional relations, our President and Members cooperate with EU addressees, including the European Parliament committees. 
Flexible provision of resources for priority audit tasks We have organised our staff in flexible teams around specific tasks rather than in units to make it easier to assign priority tasks. 
This means that we can now use "the right person for the right job" and thereby make full use of their skills and potential. 
The reform also led to a more streamlined administration of the Court: Head of Unit became Senior Managers who share management tasks under the leadership of the respective Director and contribute their expertise in the areas of quality and supervision. 
We also strengthen our expertise in audit areas and introduce knowledge transfer tools to further improve our knowledge management processes. 
Timely delivery of products We have streamlined our testing procedures and simplified our task management so that we can deliver products in a timely manner. 
In recent years, we have steadily reduced the average time needed to produce our special reports and the reform will allow a further shortening. 
This is particularly relevant in the context of the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation. 
Better communication about our role and work We have revised our annual report to refer to the headings of the multiannual financial framework, making it easier to use and reader-friendly. 
In the annual report, we now report on the largest spending areas and performance over several years. 
In addition, we have strengthened the functions in the areas of communication and relations with the addressees and hired a speaker. 
Since 2008, we have been using key performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform management of the progress achieved towards our goals, to support the decision-making process and to provide our addressees with information on performance. 
They reflect our priorities and provide information about our performance and accountability as a professional audit body. 
The indicators are used to measure core parameters for the quality and impact of our work, paying particular attention to the point of view of important addressees as well as the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of resources. 
The ZLIs have been updated for the period covered by the Strategy 2013-2017. 
Quality and impact of our work We evaluate the quality and impact of our reports based on assessments by addressees and expert reviews. 
We also measure our presence in the media. 
We asked our main addressees - the Committee on Budgetary Control and the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, the Council's Budget Committee, the main audited bodies at the Commission and the EU Agencies, as well as the Presidents of the EU-ORKB - to assess the relevance and impact of our reports published in 2015 on a five-step scale from "very low" to "very high". 
The responses show that 90 % of our main addressees assess the value of our reports as relevant to their work (compared with 94 % in 2014). 92 % believe that our work is effective (91 % in 2014). 
Assessment by addressees 10 % 21 % 45 % 24 % 2 % 0 % very low 20 % medium high 40 % very high Relevance of reports Probable effect of reports 60 % 80 % 100 % 6 % 23 % 45 % 24 % 
Our management 47 reviews by experts Every year independent external experts review content and presentation of a sample of our reports to assess the quality. In 2015, the auditors assessed four special reports and the 2014 annual reports. 
They assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high quality" (4). 
Experts' assessments in 2015 were higher than ever in the last four years, with an overall average of 3.3 for both types of reporting. 
Follow-up of recommendations We contribute primarily to improving the financial management of the EU by making recommendations to the Commission and other audited bodies in our reports. 
Some recommendations can be implemented quickly, while others require more time due to their complexity. 
We regularly review the extent to which our recommendations have been implemented by the audited bodies. 
By the end of 2015, 73 % of over 600 recommendations we had formulated in 2012-2015 had been implemented. 
This represents an increase in the implementation rate of 69 % for the recommendations made in 2011-2014 compared to the implementation rate recorded in 2014. 
Audits of the Court's reports by experts 2012 2013 2014 2014 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.3 Quality assessment 01234 Implementation of the Court's recommendations after year of delivery 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 0 % 91 % 50 % 50 % 2012 2013 2014 2015 
It concerns the strategic objective of raising awareness of the Court, its products, as well as its audit findings and audit conclusions. 
In 2015, we identified around 3,400 online articles related to our special reports, annual reports and the Court in general. 
54 % of them concerned our audit reports; the other articles referred to the Court and its work in general. 
In 2015, the media reported almost twice as much on our annual reports as in 2014. 
On the other hand, the number of media reports on our special reports has decreased compared to 2014, largely due to the interest in a particular report from this year (EU-funded airport infrastructures (No 21/2014), for which more than 800 articles have been published). 
Efficiency and effectiveness of the use of resources We evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of resources based on the extent to which we are able to implement our work programme, carry out audits in a timely manner and ensure the expertise of our employees. 
We plan our audit and other tasks based on the annual work programme and monitor progress during the year. 
In 2015, we implemented our work programme to 88 %. 
While work on annual reports and special annual reports was carried out as planned, this was 69 % for special reports compared to our very ambitious planning. 
The completion of the remaining special reports, which was delayed due to audit evidence or unexpected complexity, was transferred to early 2016. 
These special reports mainly concern new or innovative audits, the completion of which may, by nature, take more time. 
The Court's reform project, which will be assessed under the heading "other tasks", progressed as planned. 
Implementation of the Court's work programme for 2015 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 % Annual Special Reports Special Reports Special Reports Other tasks Total 100 % 100 % 69 % 100 % 100 % 88 % 
Our management 49 preparation of the special reports In order for our special reports to have an impact, they must be submitted in a timely manner. 
In recent years, we have been able to shorten the time needed for exams. This was largely based on initiatives stemming from the 2013-2017 strategy. 
In 2015, we produced our 25 special reports over an average period of 17 months (19 months in 2014), for the first time in less than 18 months. 
We will continue to strive to reduce the time needed to prepare our special reports, in particular to respond to the new principle introduced in the amended Financial Regulation. 
In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we strive to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training (excluding language courses). 
The objective for the professional training of auditors was again exceeded, which shows the importance we attach to personnel development. 
If the language courses were taken into account, one examiner averaged 9.4 days of training in 2015. 
Duration of special reports published in 2013-2015 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 % 1 SB 4 % 1 SB 4 % 1 SB 4 % 1 SB Longer than 26 months 18-26 months 10-18 months 60 % 12 SB 54 % 13 SB 35 % 7 SB 42 % 10 SB 2013 2014 36 % 9 SB 60 % 15 SB Training days per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Average number of training days for examiners (excluding language courses) Target = 5 days 6,4 6.2 2013 2014 days 2015 
In 2015, we continued the staff reduction of 5 years (2013-2017) by 1 % per year, as set out in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013. 
As a result, staffing was reduced from 882 officials and temporary staff to 872 in 2015 (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees). 
The auditors included 562 employees, including 113 employees in the members' cabinets. 
Attitude The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output. 
Our recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions. Staff shall consist of both officials and temporary staff. 
In 2015, we hired 63 employees: 30 officials, 17 temporary agents, 11 contract agents, four seconded national experts and one adviser. 
In addition, we provided internships for 74 graduates for periods of three to five months. 
On 31. In December 2015, only 15 vacancies were vacant (1.7 % of the total number of posts). 
Distribution of the Court's posts on 31. December 2015 Total 891 882 Total 872 31 39 41 900 800 600 500 400 300 200 Examination Services 100 137 141 133 147 141 136 576 561 562 Services of the President Administration Translation 0 2013 2014 2015 
51 Equal relationship between men and women As with the rest of the EU institutions, we pursue an equal opportunities policy in terms of human resources management and recruitment. 
For several years, we have been able to maintain a balanced proportion of men and women among our employees. 
The graph shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility at 31. December 2015. These shares have hardly changed in recent years. 
Our Action Plan on Equal Opportunities aims to achieve a balanced proportion of men and women at all levels. 
According to the latest recruitment waves, 50 % of staff in grades AD 5 to AD 8 are women (an increase from 48 % in 2014). 
The renewal in the upper and middle management levels and the growing proportion of women in function group AD are expected to increase the proportion of women in management positions in the future. 
Relationship between men and women at responsibility level 35 % 65 % Assistants - Secretaries Auditor - Administrative Boards Management 59 % 41 % 69 % 31 % 0 % 20 % 40 % 60 % 80 % 100 % 
Support for Examinations 53 Age profile Age group 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 0.3 % 3.0 % 8.0 % 13.7 % 9.6 % 20.3 % 20.9 % 19.6 % 20 % 25 % 4.1 % 0.6 % 5 % 10 % 15 % The age profile of the 31st century December 2015 shows that 52 % of our employees are 44 years old or younger. 
32 of the 69 directors and senior managers (46 %) are 55 years old or older. 
As a result, in the next five to ten years, when these employees retire, there will be a renewal in senior management positions. 
The examiner's profession requires continuous training in order to be able to keep up with career-specific developments and acquire new skills. 
In 2015, our employees completed an average of 7.3 days of professional training. 
The share of language courses in the total number of training days continues to decline. 
Language courses accounted for 35 % of the total number of training days in 2015 (compared to 43 % in 2014). 
Our main professional training activities concern the modernisation of our training programmes and greater cooperation with learning opportunities within and outside the EU institutions and bodies. 
We established a cooperation with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France) to offer a postgraduate degree program "Audit of public organisations and policies" and a Master's programme "Management of public organisations". 
Cooperation with the European Commission, which offers language courses for our staff, and the European Administrative Academy, which helped us organise soft skills and ECA training day, has continued. 
In addition, we have expanded our range of courses even more through individually tailored e-learning courses and training courses in the form of integrated learning (blended learning). 
In addition, we continued our successful series of presentations held by internal and external experts on developments in the field of audit and other topics relating to the work of our auditors. 
Finally, we introduced a "Performance Recognition Awards" framework to honor the performance of non-executive staff with special training outside the Court. 
54 Translation Translation is an audit support activity that enables us to fulfill our mission and achieve our communication goals. 
In 2015, the total translation volume was higher than ever: almost 200 000 pages, an increase of almost 3 % compared to 2014. 
Around 99 % of the translations were completed on time. 
In addition to normal translation work, our translators provided linguistic support and interpretation at internal events and meetings during 26 audit visits across the EU. 
They also assisted in drafting preliminary observations and special reports and were thus more involved in the Court's key audit processes. 
Following the review of the translation workflow and the Court's reform, the Directorate for Translation improved its structures in 2015 by introducing assistant pools. 
A major project of the Directorate, GroupShare, will lead to significant improvements by further streamlining the work of the assistant pools to create space for efficiency gains and automation. It also unifies the procedures of all language teams. 
In 2015, the Directorate for Information Technologies focused its efforts on adapting our administrative information systems to support the successful implementation of the Court's reform and on preparing developments in the field of knowledge management to support the new organisational structure of the Court. 
In addition, all functions of the full version of the Assyst2 audit documentation system were introduced for work related to the declaration of assurance, performance audits and related reports. This is the end of this major project. 
Our new audit management system (AMS) has been put into operation: More than 300 plans were drawn up in the system and 180 audit tasks were defined and monitored with the instrument. 
Building on the technical foundations for mobility introduced in recent years (provision of the Wi-Fi network in all the premises of the Court, equipment of all staff with laptops), the Directorate is currently focusing on global mobility, i.e. access to all content at any location, at any time and on all devices. 
The project in terms of developing a solution that ensures that employees can access our information on all devices will help maintain the Court's business operations and increase efficiency and effectiveness. 
Maintaining business operations during the development and deployment of IT solutions was ensured, making critical systems available to 99.82 %. 
55 Management and Infrastructure The task of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services is to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and achieve its strategic objectives. 
The Directorate shall also ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all our activities. 
In 2015, the Directorate continued to focus on making its activities even more efficient and economic. 
Due to the exceptional situation following the Paris terrorist attacks in November and the subsequent crisis situation in Belgium, we tightened our security measures and acquired the necessary security equipment through public procurement procedures. 
Information on public procurement can be found on our website (eca.europa.eu). 
Buildings The farm currently owns three buildings ("K1", "K2" and "K3") and rents small space for its IT centre for data recovery and a meeting room. 
He also rents three offices in Brussels from the European Parliament and one office in Strasbourg. 
To ensure the cost-effectiveness of our building policy, we take into account three factors: Purchase or rental, follow-up costs and interinstitutional cooperation. 
In the development and implementation of our building policy, as in all our areas of activity, we strive to establish and meet the highest standards of transparency and accountability. 
The Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) is a management tool developed by the European Commission for companies and other organisations to evaluate, report and improve their environmental performance. 
We started in 2014 with the development of an environmental m-nagement system2 that is in line with the principles of the European EMAS standard set out in the 2009 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council3. 
Our goal is an EMAS certification by the end of 2016. 
In 2015, the EMAS project made the planned progress. 
2 The EMAS project at the Court was launched in July 2013. 
3 Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation of organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS). 
Support for audit activities 56 Financial information We are financed from the general budget of the European Union. 
Our budget accounts for around 0.087 % of the EU's total expenditure and 1.51 % of total administrative expenditure. 
In 2015, the implementation rate of the total budget available was 98.68 %. 
Implementation of the budget 2015 HAUSHALTSYEAR 2015 Final appropriations Commitments Use of appropriations in % (commitments/allowances) Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (EUR 1 000) 10 - Members of the institution 10 171 10 054 99 % 9 978 12 - Officials and temporary staff 94 517 94 118 99 % 94 072 14 - Other staff and external services 4 651 4 559 98 % 4 502 162 - Missions 3 600 3 162 88 % 2 620 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 2 819 2 753 98 % 1 903 Subtotal Title 1 115 758 114 646 99 % 113 075 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditures 20 - Buildings 4 143 4 140 99 % 2 071 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 8 557 8 557 100 % 3 940 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and related costs 1 110 1 081 97 % 768 23 - Current material expenditure for operations 421 332 79 % 260 25 - Meetings and conferences 717 634 88 % 467 27 - Information and publications 2 200 1 756 80 % 1 330 Subtotal Title 2 17 148 16 500 96 % 8 836 In total 132 906 131 146 98 % 121 911 
Support for audit activities 57 Budget 2016 The 2016 budget increased by 1.94 % compared to 2015. 
Budget 2016 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 20 - Building 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and related costs 23 - Current operating expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 10 885 98 881 4 876 3 600 2 911 7 347 2 401 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 3 080 HOUSHALT 2016 (EUR 1 000) 2015 (EUR 1 000) Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 2 559 2 669 Subtotal Title 1 120 801 118 381 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure 7 152 882 785 439 426 706 717 2 365 Subtotal Title 2 14 686 14 525 Total 135487 132 906 
Support for audit activities 58 Audit and accountability Discharge As the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure. 
In April 2015, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2013, which means that our annual accounts for 2013 have been finalised. 
We have carefully analysed the issues raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility and have also taken appropriate action in the context of our reform. 
We have reported on our follow-up to the European Parliament. 
Internal and external audit Our Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk control issues by providing opinions on the quality of management and internal control systems and recommendations to improve the management of our operations and to promote sound financial management. 
In addition, the Service supports the work of the external auditor whose mission is to certify the Court's annual accounts. 
Finally, the Internal Audit Service provides information on significant risks and corporate governance issues. 
The work of the Internal Audit Service is supervised by a Committee on Internal Audit, composed of three members of the Court and an external expert. 
The Committee regularly monitors progress on the various tasks set out in the Internal Audit Service's work programme. 
The Committee also ensures the independence of the Internal Audit Service. 
In 2015, the Internal Audit Service prepared specific reports on strategic issues such as changes in our annual report, mid-term review of the implementation of our strategy for the period 2013-2017 and follow-up on the implementation of the recommendations from the peer review process and the European Parliament. 
Taking into account the recommendations of the Internal Audit Service in 2014 that the internal control cycle should be strengthened, we updated our IT security system and formalised the existing risk management framework and existing guidelines. 
The Internal Audit Service monitored the implementation of the new guidelines and ensured that its recommendations were taken into account. 
We report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit. 
External audit of the Court Our annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor. 
This is an important aspect in the Court's approach to applying to ourselves the same principles of transparency and accountability as for the bodies we audit. 
The report of the auditor - PricewaterhouseCoopers S.ŕ r.l. - on our annual accounts for the financial year 2014 was published on 15 September 2015. 
Support for audit activities 59 audit opinions of the independent auditor - financial year 2014 To the annual accounts: "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31. December 2014 and its performance and cash flows for the year ending that reference date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules of application of the Financial Regulation.' "In our work steps described in this report, we have not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria, the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and • the control procedures put in place do not provide the requisite assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 
Declaration by the 60 authorising officer by delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and • confirms with reasonable assurance that - the funds allocated to the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management - the control procedures put in place provide the necessary guarantees for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of allegations of fraud or suspicion of fraud, - the costs and benefits of the controls are appropriate. 
This guarantee is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as the reports and declarations of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years. 
Done at Luxembourg, 25 February 2016 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 
Permission to reproduce or reproduce the following photos must be obtained directly from the copyright holder: (c) EU 2015, Source: European Court of Auditors, p. 1 (photo 3), p. 2, p. 5; Architects of the buildings of the European Court of Auditors: Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013) and Paul Noël (1988). (c) Najwyzsza Izba Kontroli (NIK), p. 38/photo: Krzysztof Andrzejewski. 
Reproduction of the following photos is permitted, provided that the copyright holder, the source and, if applicable, the name of the photographer are mentioned: (c) EU 2015, Source: European Court of Auditors, p. 1 (photo 1), p. 4, 8, 16, 23, 25, 31, 35, 36, 37, 41, 42; (c) EU 2015, Source: European Parliament - Audiovisual Service/Photo: Stephanie Lecocq, p. 1 (photo 2); Genevičve Engel, p. 10; (c) EU 2015, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service/Photo: Maciej Szkopanski, p. 20 (photo 1); Shlamov Vano, p. 26; (c) EU 2014, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service/Etienne Ansotte, p. 19 (Photo 2); Denis Lovrovic, p. 17 (photos 1 and 2) and p. 20 (photo 2); (c) EU 2013, Source: Europol, p. 14; Source: European Court of Auditors, p. 24; (c) EU 2012, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service/Photo: Nikolay Doychinov, p. 18; (c) EU 2011, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service/Photo: Anoek De Groot, p. 22; Source: European Court of Auditors, p. 32; (c) EU 2009, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service/Photo: Melinda Bodo, p. 21; (c) EU 2008, Source: European Commission - DG Development and Cooperation - Europeaid, p. 13; (c) EC 2001, source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service, p. 33; (c) EC 1999, source: European Commission - DG Development and Cooperation - Europeaid, p. 29; (c) EC 1995, source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service/Photo: Woodworking company Estkip in Jőhvi, p. 27; (c) EU, source: European Court of Auditors, p. 19 (photo 1), 28. 
European CONSTRUCTION HOUSE DE 2017 Activity report 
Luxembourg: Office of Publications of the European Union, 2018 Print ISBN 978-92-872-9644-3 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-9665-8 HTML ISBN 978-92-872-9455-5 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi: 10.2865/281586 doi: 10.2865/91294 doi: 10.2865/4624 QJ-AA-18-001-EN-C QJ-AA-18-001-EN-N QJ-AA-18-001-EN-Q 
01 With pictures it is best to bring the past 40 years to life. 
The photos above show the day-to-day work of the many hundred employees who have worked at the farm in recent decades. 
A selection of these photos was published in the course of 2017 on our website (eca.europa.eu) and on social media (@EUauditors). 
The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the external auditor of the EU and one of the seven institutions of the Union. 
The Court's College consists of 28 members, one from each EU Member State. 
The Court employs around 900 staff of all EU nationalities, composed of auditors and administrative staff. 
It was built in 1977 and is based in Luxembourg. 
We verify that the EU ensures proper accounting, ensures proper compliance with its financial rules, and whether EU policies and programmes are optimally used. 
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the EU's financial management and promoting accountability and transparency. 
It warns against risks, provides audit certainty, points to weaknesses and successes, and provides guidance to EU policy makers and legislators. 
The Court makes its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, the national parliaments and the general public. 
The European Court of Auditors' buildings on the Kirchberg Plateau in Luxembourg, 2017 
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 Preface of the President 5 2017 at a glance 6 Our activities 6 Audits 8 Publications 19 Important events 21 Relations with institutional addressees 24 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions 26 Our management 26 The College of Members of the Court 26 Audit Chambers and Committees 28 Strategy 29 Work planning 29 Performance measurement 34 Our staff 34 Staff allocation 34 Recruitment 35 Age profile 35 Balanced relationship between men and women 37 Support to audit activities 37 Vocational training 37 Translation 37 Information technology 38 Buildings 39 Environmental management 40 40 Financial information 42 Internal and external audit 44 Statement by authorising officer by delegation 45 Annex - Publications in 2017: Special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications 
Foreword of President 04 Dear reader, dear reader! 
In 1977, the European Court of Auditors started its operations - 40 years later, we look back on many successful contributions to public accountability and EU financial management. 
An official ceremony took place in October 2017 on the occasion of the Court's Jubilee, attended by your Royal Highnesses of the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg, President of the Republic of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker. 
Their participation in the event demonstrates to a great extent the importance of the Court as a "financial certainty" of the European Union. 
Over the course of the year, however, we also looked forward. 
We discussed and agreed on a strategy for the remaining three years of the current Multiannual Financial Framework until the end of 2020. 
Our citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that they do not lose their trust in the EU and its institutions. 
People must be able to see that the EU acts with integrity, respects the rule of law, uses public funds prudently, pursues clear policy objectives and achieves the results it has promised. 
As an external auditor of the Union, we are well positioned to examine and report on these aspects accordingly. 
Throughout the year, we have published special reports on a wide range of EU policies and programmes, as well as analysis-based publications such as landscape analysis and rapid analysis. 
In addition, we have drafted several opinions on legislative proposals and, as every year, we have prepared our annual reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds, as well as on the EU agencies and many other Union bodies. 
This activity report provides a comprehensive overview of our activities in 2017 and provides important information about the Court, its budget and its staff. 
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President 
2017 at a glance 05 Our activities Our management • 28 special reports examining the effectiveness and • added value of EU policies and programmes in areas such as youth unemployment, environment, migration and banking union; • a landscape analysis of EU action in the fields of energy and climate change and a rapid analysis on staff reductions in the EU institutions; • • five opinions on new or amended EU acts with a significant impact on financial management, including an opinion on the Financial Regulation for the • EU budget and an opinion on the financing of European political parties; • Annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and on the activities under the European Development Funds with the related summary report "2016 - brief information on the EU audit"; • • 55 specific annual reports on the annual accounts of individual EU agencies, bodies and joint undertakings established in different Member States, including two summary reports; • Meetings, seminars and conferences with our institutional addressees and peers, such as the meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States, as well as conferences on youth unemployment and energy, climate change and impact assessment. 
We welcomed two new members: Juhan Parts (Estonia) on 1 January 2017 and Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary) on 1 September 2017. • We issued a new multi-annual strategy that serves as a guide to our work and management over the period 2018-2020. We also revised our work planning to ensure a more strategic, coherent approach to the planning of our audit priorities across the Court. We also reviewed our risk management policy and strengthened our financial procedures. • We continued the reduction of posts agreed between the EU institutions while implementing equal opportunities policy in recruitment and human resources management. 
Our activities 06 Audits We carry out various types of audits in the different budgetary areas of the EU: • Performance audits - the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes are considered here. 
The focus of these audits on the best use of funds is on specific management or budgetary issues, which we select on the basis of criteria such as public interest, potential for improvement, risk of inadequate performance or irregularities; Audits of accounts and compliance audits - consider the reliability of the annual accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions (in particular in relation to the statement of assurance) and whether the systems or transactions in specific budgetary areas comply with the relevant rules and regulations. 
Based on the evidence obtained from our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the extent to which the EU's policy objectives have been achieved, as well as on the situation of the Union's budgetary and financial management. 
This information helps us to make appropriate recommendations that are relevant from the point of view of cost efficiency. 
Audit visits in 2017 The majority of the audit work takes place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg. 
At the same time, over the course of 2017, our auditors also carried out numerous audit visits to the other EU institutions, agencies and bodies, EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, as well as to international organisations such as the United Nations involved in the allocation of EU funds. 
We also carry out on-the-spot checks on recipients of EU funds both inside and outside the European Union. 
Through these checks, we obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the management of EU policies and programmes as well as the collection and disbursement of EU funds, as well as from the respective beneficiaries. 
Audits are our core activity, frequency and intensity of our audit work in each Member State and beneficiary country, depending on the type of audit we carry out. 
In 2017, our auditors spent 3 670 days of on-the-spot audits in Member States and outside the EU (2016: 4 246 days). 
Within the EU, our on-the-spot checks are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCs) of the Member States visited. 
3 670 days on-the-spot audits in the Member States and outside the EU in 2017 and our auditors spent 2 300 days (2016: 2 510 days) at the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg as well as decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations or the OECD, and audit firms. 
To obtain and validate audit evidence, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies (such as the secure exchange of data and documents). 
Our activities 07 5 970 audit days in 2017 Spain Italy Poland France Germany Germany Germany United Kingdom Greece Czech Republic Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Estonia Netherlands Ireland Austria Sweden Finland Lithuania Denmark Latvia Slovenia Slovakia Malta Croatia Belgium Luxembourg Lebanon Niger Georgia Norway Nigeria Serbia Gabon Angola Switzerland Guinea-Bissau Zimbabwe Burkina Faso Malawi Mali Bosnia and Herzegovina Jordan Barbados Barbados United States Ghana Sudan Ethiopia Turkey Myanmar/Burma 293 280 260 377 371 153 EU Member States (3 215 audit days) 5 970 audit days third countries (455 audit days) EU institutions and bodies (2 300 days of testing) 129 125 123 120 117 116 103 93 84 68 66 55 52 52 52 31 26 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 18 6 6 9 10 10 11 13 13 16 19 20 20 21 22 23 24 26 26 26 41 46 0 50 150 200 250 300 350 400 
We work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to combat fraud at the expense of the EU budget. 
These cases will then be followed up by OLAF, which decides on possible investigations and, where appropriate, cooperates with Member State authorities. 
In 2017, we continued to direct 13 suspected fraud cases identified in our audits to OLAF, although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we occasionally encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activities in our audit work. 
In 2017, we led 13 such cases (2016: 11 cases), in which there was suspicion of fraud, to OLAF. The suspicion of fraud emerged as part of our audit work for the Statements of Assurance for the financial years 2016 and 2017 as well as other audit tasks. 
Publications Our publications: Special Reports, Annual Reports, Opinions and Analysis-Based Publications Our audit reports and opinions form an important link in the EU accountability chain as they are used to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's budgetary management accountable, in particular through the annual discharge procedure. 
In areas under shared management, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role, such as expenditure on agricultural and cohesion measures. Around 80 % of the EU budget is implemented in this way. 
Our range of publications includes • Special Reports setting out the results of selected audits on specific policy or expenditure areas or on budgetary or management issues; • Annual reports containing mainly the results of the audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the budget of the European Union and on the European Development Funds, but also on budgetary and performance aspects; • special annual reports on EU agencies, decentralised bodies and Joint Undertakings published separately; • Opinions on new or amended acts with a significant impact on financial management, drawn up either at the request of another institution or at the Court's own initiative; 
Our activities 09 • Analysis-based publications: • Landscape analyses are descriptive and analytical documents on complex, broad policy areas or management issues in which - often from a cross-cutting perspective - we present our experience and our accumulated knowledge on the selected topic; • Subject papers are similar to landscape analyses, as they are also descriptive and analytical documents on policy or management, but their topics are more limited; • in the Rapid Case Reviews, facts are compiled and presented related to very clearly defined specific topics or problems. 
All publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu). 
In addition, all special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications from 2017 are listed at the end of this report. 
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total: 93 3 28 55 52 Special Reports Annual Reports** Number of publications in 2017 Analysis-based publications Opinions Special Annual Reports* 2017 * Special Annual Reports and Summary Reports on EU Agencies and Joint Undertakings. ** The annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, the annual report on the European Development Funds and the summary report "2016 - Brief information on the EU audit". 
Our activities 10 Annual Reports Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016 In our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016, we examined how the EU funds had been used in the financial year under consideration and highlighted the areas where the risk of incorrect use of EU funds was greatest. 
In addition, we have specifically assessed all important areas of the EU budget on the basis of the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020 and provided information on budgetary and financial management as well as performance information. 
We also analysed why errors had occurred and made recommendations on possible improvements. 
Audit of around 1 000 payments made from the 2016 EU budget to beneficiaries Our auditors examined some 1 000 payments to beneficiaries made in the various spending areas of the EU budget. 
This means that we analysed around 1 000 different cases where EU funding had been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in the EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries. 
With the presentation of our annual report on the financial year 2016, the discharge procedure starts with the publication of our annual report at the beginning of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the EU budget carried out by the European Parliament. 
On 28 September, we presented our annual report to the Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT) of the European Parliament and subsequently to the plenary of the European Parliament, the ECOFIN Council and the national parliaments of the Member States. 
Our activities 11 EU annual accounts provide a true and fair picture; Main conclusions The annual accounts for 2016 have been drawn up in accordance with international principles and convey a true and fair view of EU finances in all material respects. Revenue in 2016 was not materially affected by errors. In recent years, the estimated level of error regarding payments made from the EU budget has continuously improved: 2016: 3.1 %, 2015: 3.8 % and 2014: 4.4 %. 
In 2016, a significant part of the audited expenditure - entitlement-based payments (as opposed to reimbursement-based payments) - was not materially affected by errors. The Commission's reporting on regularity is largely in line with our findings in most areas. 
However, the Commission should simplify performance measurement, for example by reducing the number of targets and indicators. Corrective action by Member States and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate. 
Without these measures, the estimated overall error rate would have been 1.2 percentage points higher. 
However, sufficient information was available to prevent, detect and correct a significant part of the errors. The total amount of payments to which the EU committed itself under future budgets has been higher than ever before and is expected to continue to increase. 
Our activities 12 Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the first time contains a limited opinion on the regularity of EU expenditure Lazaros S. Lazarou, the Member of the Court responsible for the annual report Unrestricted audit opinion Error rate is less than 2 %, with the total budget impacting "The 2016 annual report is of historical importance as it differs significantly from the previous reports". 
In view of compliance with legislation on the expenditure side, we gave for the first time a limited and no longer a failed audit opinion." Comparison between the estimated error rates for EU spending areas (2014-2016) Estimated error rates 5,7 5,6 2014 2015 5,2 4,8 4.4 4.4 4.1 2.9 2.5 2.8 2,7 2.1 0.6 0.5 expenditure area Economic, social and territorial cohesion 0.2 Competitive Europe in the management capacity for resources growth and employment 
Our activities 13 Our institutional addressees also need information on the results of the EU spending "This year's limited audit opinion shows significant improvements in EU finances." 
In the future, we will reconsider how we examine the EU budget: We will take greater account of the internal controls carried out at the level of the European Commission and the Member States so that we can better promote accountability and further improve EU financial management. - We will also focus more on performance aspects in order to ensure the optimal use of EU citizens' resources." How important it is to focus on the performance of EU spending and the results achieved has also been emphasised by Joachim Zeller, Member of the European Parliament and rapporteur for the 2016 discharge: Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, at the presentation of the annual report at the plenary session of the European Parliament on 4 October 2017 in Strasbourg "Information such as error rates or, for example, information on whether funds from the Structural Funds have been used correctly are important, but we should also look at what has been achieved with these appropriations." Joachim Zeller, Member of the European Parliament, Rapporteur for the 2016 discharge 
Our activities 14 Annual Report on the European Development Funds The European Development Fund (EDF) provides financial support to African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and overseas countries and territories. 
The EDFs are financed by Member States and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and, in some cases, by the European Investment Bank (EIB). 
Around one third of the total EDF error rate is due to non-compliance with procurement rules. 
Other major types of errors concern, inter alia, expenditure that is either not actually incurred or not eligible. 
Our annual report on the EDFs is published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca. europa.eu). 
The EU Agencies and other bodies as well as the European Joint Undertakings are based in various EU Member States. They carry out specific tasks in areas of utmost importance for EU citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice and research. 
In 2017, the Court examined whether the agencies' annual accounts were reliable and whether the underlying transactions complied with the rules. 
When forming our audit opinions on the agencies' annual accounts, we took into account, where available, the audit work carried out by auditing firms. 
We also examined the communication infrastructure Sisnet, the European Schools, the contingent liabilities of the Single Resolution Board and the liquidation of the Galileo Joint Undertaking. 
We have worked on consolidating the results and are expected to issue a single report for the agencies in 2018. i Key data EDF budget 2016 3.4 billion euro Audited amount 2.8 billion euro Accounting Reliable Revenues Not affected by errors materially affected by errors (estimated error rate of 3.3 %) i Core data Audited by the Court 45 Agencies and other EU agencies, 8 Joint Undertakings Budget 2016 totalling 5.2 billion Euro staff A total of around 11 000 staff The Court publishes 55 special annual reports, including two summary reports 
Our activities 15 agencies (budget of EUR 3.4 billion, 10 364 employees) Our audit found that the annual accounts of all 41 agencies provide a true and fair picture. 
The financial transactions underlying the accounts were legal and regular for all agencies, except for the European Asylum Support Office, for which we issued a limited opinion on account of non-compliance with the public procurement principles. 
Joint Undertakings (budget of EUR 1.8 billion, 633 staff) The annual accounts of all eight Joint Undertakings were reliable. 
They represented the assets and financial position of the Joint Undertakings as well as the results of their operations and cash flows for 2016 in all material respects. 
In addition, the transactions underlying the accounts for seven Joint Undertakings complied with the relevant legislation, except for the ECSEL Joint Undertaking, for which we made a limited audit opinion, as we were unable to obtain sufficient assurance regarding the reliability of its internal controls on grant payments under FP7. 
All special annual reports and the two summary reports are available on our website (eca. europa.eu). 
In 2017, we published 28 special reports. 
In these reports, we examined in particular whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes were achieved, whether the results were achieved in an effective and economic way, and whether the EU funds created added value. 
We also made recommendations for improvements in terms of financial savings, better working methods, avoidance of waste or a more cost-effective achievement of the policy objectives pursued. 
The special reports focus in particular on the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes The focus of our special reports was on issues that reflected relevant issues for the EU, such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, the creation of growth and the promotion of inclusion, migration and global development challenges, the Single Market and Banking Union, as well as ensuring the accountability and profitability of the European Union. 
At this point, we will take a closer look at two of these 28 special reports: a special report on food waste addressing the potential of EU policies to tackle this issue throughout the food supply chain, as well as a special report on the Greek financial crisis, which examined how the EU reacted with the economic adjustment programmes to the financial and debt crisis in one of its Member States. 
Our activities 16 ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND TERRITORICAL RESULTS • Programme Conclusions • Partnership Agreements • Ex-ante conditionalities • Financial corrections • Rail signalling • Single European airspace • SME Guarantee Facility • Youth unemployment • Drinking water Special reports: Special Reports of the Court in 2017 EUROPE IN THE WORLD • Honduras • Tunisia • Disaster management • mobilisation of domestic revenues in Africa • Registration centres for migrants (hotspots) • Trafficking in human beings • Trust Fund Bękou • Election Observation Management NATURAL RESSOURCES Special reports: Special reports: • Food waste • Natura 2000 • Certification bodies • Fisheries control • Young farmers • Rural development • Greening of the CAP Special report: Revenue Customs controls Special report: Court of Justice of the European Union FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC POLICY • Greek financial crisis Special reports: • Single resolution board 
Our activities 17 Special Report: Combating food waste: an opportunity for the EU to improve the resource efficiency of the food supply chain is a global problem of food waste, which has been increasingly at the heart of public and political debate in recent years, especially given the need to feed the growing world population. 
According to current estimates, around one third of the food produced for human consumption worldwide is wasted or lost, resulting in high economic and environmental costs. 
The EU auditors examined the role the EU can play in combating food waste Our auditors examined in particular the measures taken so far and the impact of the various EU policy instruments to reduce food waste. 
The focus was on the prevention of food waste and the facilitation of food donation, as these two aspects are given the highest priority in the fight against food waste. 
Our auditors interviewed Commission services' staff responsible for the policy concerned, carried out desk checks and carried out audit visits in five Member States: Italy (Lazio), Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Finland. 
They visited the ministries concerned and carried out on-site visits. 
They also consulted relevant stakeholders in the areas of food manufacturing, retail, research and charities. "The EU can and should do more to combat food waste effectively," EU auditors concluded that while food waste could be tackled through a number of EU policies, this potential is not exploited. 
The current approach remains fragmented and incoherent, and coordination at Commission level is lacking. 
Our report identified a number of unused opportunities and potential improvements that would not require new legislation or additional public funding. In addition, the auditors recommended that existing policies be better adapted and set a clear policy objective of reducing food waste. 
The report was presented to the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU and a number of national parliaments across the EU. 
Both the European Parliament and the Council welcomed the report and agreed with the conclusions contained therein. 
The report also found a considerable echo on the media, especially on social media. 
Our activities 18 Special Report: The Commission's role in the Greek financial crisis Greece needed to ensure its financial stability After the 2008 financial crisis followed an economic downturn and a debt crisis in Europe, which made the weaknesses of the Greek economy obvious. 
In April 2010, Greece was no longer able to finance itself on financial markets and therefore requested financial assistance from the euro area Member States and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). 
Since then, Greece has participated in three economic adjustment programmes managed by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF - the so-called "troika". 
The third programme also involved the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). 
The total support amounting to EUR 368.6 billion was linked to political constraints set jointly by the Greek authorities and the lenders. 
These programmes aimed at stabilising the economic situation in Greece by meeting the financial needs of the Greek economy. This should prevent the crisis from spreading to the rest of the euro area. 
In return, Greece committed to implementing far-reaching structural reforms. 
The EU auditors examined whether the Commission had adequately managed the economic adjustment programmes. 
Our auditors assessed the Commission's approach to the first two programmes for Greece and designed the third programme. 
They reviewed the documents on EU grant programmes, analysed programme conditions and interviewed Commission staff, staff of national authorities (such as specialist ministries), the Bank of Greece, business and business stakeholders, and IMF, ESM and OECD staff. "Economic adjustment programmes for Greece: despite shortcomings, progress in the reform process", said the EU auditors Our auditors concluded that the economic adjustment programmes for Greece had provided financial stability in the short term and enabled progress in the reform process. 
However, the programmes in Greece have only led to a limited recovery. 
In addition, the auditors noted that the Commission had no experience in managing such a process, that the conditions of the programmes were neither sufficiently prioritised by importance nor embedded in a broader strategy for Greece, and that the macroeconomic assumptions of the programmes were sound. 
This special report was submitted to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and institutional stakeholders in Greece. 
The report was the subject of extensive media coverage and achieved the largest media echo of all the special reports we published in 2017. 
Our activities 19 Important events 40th anniversary of the European Court of Auditors 12 October 2017, Chamber of the Luxembourg Congress Centre The 40th anniversary of the establishment of our institution was celebrated with an official ceremony in the presence of your Royal Highnesses of the Grand Duchess and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg and the Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel. 
The ceremony was opened by our President Klaus-Heiner Lehne. This was followed by speeches by Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia, and Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission. 
In addition to the ceremony, an annual conference was held at which the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCs) of the EU Member States ("Con-Tact Committee of the EU") as well as the presidents of the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries met. 
From left to right: Henri Grethen, Member of the Court; Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg; Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Her Royal Highnesses the Grand Duchess and the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg; Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament; Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission 
Our activities 20 ECA Conference on Youth Employment - Adopting challenges and finding solutions 10 May 2017, European Parliament, Brussels This conference was organised following the publication of our special report on the Youth Guarantee, which examined, as in other reports, the effectiveness of EU policies in addressing the problem of youth unemployment in the EU Member States. 
During the conference, Iliana Ivanova, the rapporteur member, and the auditors discussed with high-level representatives of EU institutions, employment agencies and young people whether EU policies should deliver results and how best to proceed in the future. 
17 October 2017, European Parliament, Brussels This conference was an integral part of our work on the landscape analysis of the EU's energy and climate action, which we published in September 2017 and later also presented at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP23) in Bonn. 
The Court's Conference provided a platform for stakeholders and key stakeholders in this field, both from the public and private sectors, to discuss future challenges. 
It was jointly organised by the Court and the European Parliamentary Research Service. 
The conference was opened by Phil Wynn Owen, rapporteur Member, and Jerzy Buzek, Chair of the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. 
The conference was attended by representatives of Member States, EU institutions, Supreme Audit Institutions, non-governmental organisations and think tanks, as well as Members of the European Parliament (MEPs), scientists and our auditors. 
From left to right: Phil Wynn Owen, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Jerzy Buzek, Member of the European Parliament; Anthony Teasdale, Director-General of the European Parliamentary Research Service From left to right: Marianne Thyssen, Member of the Commission; Pavel Telicka, Vice-President of the European Parliament; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Commission; Iliana Ivanova, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Martina Dlabajová, Member of the European Parliament 
Our activities 21 symposium on regulatory impact assessment 23.24. November 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg At the two-day symposium on regulatory impact assessment, around 100 representatives of universities, think tanks, research centres, international organisations and European, national and regional institutions participated. 
During the symposium, contributions were presented and discussed which had been submitted by the participants as part of an open call. 
The symposium was led by Daničle Lamarque, Member of the Court, and organised in cooperation with the scientific journal "Politiques et management public". 
This is crucial, as the impact of our work largely depends on the benefits these addressees draw from our audit results and recommendations. 
It is therefore also important that we take their concerns and suggestions into account when planning our annual work programme. 
European Parliament In February 2017, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne presented the Court's work programme for 2017. 
He invited all Parliament's standing committees to propose possible audit tasks for the 2018 Work Programme. 
Three-quarters of parliamentary committees submitted proposals, of which we have now taken into account around two-thirds of our work. 
Exchange of views with the Conference of Committee Chairs of the European Parliament, chaired by Cecilia Wikström 
Our activities 22 In April 2017, President Lehne participated in the debate in the plenary of the European Parliament on the discharge procedure for 2015. 
In September 2017, he presented the Court's Annual Report for the financial year 2016 to Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT); in October 2017 the Plenary. 
Parliament's Group Chairs, meeting at the Conference of Presidents, invited President Lehne to their meeting in November 2017 to discuss the Court's strategy and work programme. 
For our members, it is common practice to present our reports and other results of our work to CONT. 
Over the course of the year, we held nearly 60 lectures in front of this committee. 
The members of the Court also exchange views with other standing committees and delegations. 
In 2017, we presented our reports in 23 meetings to these committees and delegations, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. 
In addition, our members attended the meetings of the Coordinators of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as they had expressed particular interest in our audit work. 
Parliament also invited us to present our special report on migrant registration centres (hotspots) at its conference on migration management. 
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, at a press conference following the meeting with Parliament's Group Chairs, November 2017, Strasbourg Council During the Maltese Presidency, President Lehne and Mr Leo Brincat (Malta) met in Valletta (Malta) in June 2017, Maltese Minister for European Affairs Helena Dalli and Parliamentary State Secretary for European Funds and Social Dialogue Aaron Farrugia. 
In September 2017, during the Estonian Presidency, President Lehne, Member of the Court Juhan Parts (Estonia) and Member of the Institutional Relations Rimantas Šadžius met in Tallinn with Estonian Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and Finance Minister Toomas Tőniste. 
During the year, the representatives of both Council Presidencies also visited the Court in Luxembourg. 
In November 2017, President Lehne presented our annual report to EU finance ministers at the ECOFIN Council in Brussels. 
At work level, our main contact person is the Committee on Budgets of the Council, which deals with all financial matters, including the discharge procedure. 
In 2017, our auditors attended several meetings of the other Council preparatory bodies to present the Court's reports. This mainly concerned the Council's Working Groups on Structural Measures, Environment and Agrofinic Issues. 
Maltese Finance Minister Edward Scicluna (right) visited the European Court of Auditors on 29 March 2017. 
The photo also features court member Leo Brincat (left) and Court President Klaus-Heiner Lehne (center). 
During the year, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne met a number of senior government representatives in the EU Member States, including Polish President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw, Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa in Lisbon, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy in Madrid, as well as the French Minister for European Affairs Nathalie Loiseau and the French Minister for State Action and Public Budgets Gérald Darmanin in Paris. 
During his visits, he was accompanied by one of the court members: Janusz Wojciechowski (Poland), Joăo Figueiredo (Portugal), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain) and Daničle Lamarque (France). 
Meeting with Polish President Andrzej Duda (Warsaw, February 2017) Meeting with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy (Madrid, March 2017) In 2017, our Members presented the Court's annual report on the financial year 2016 to national parliaments in 14 Member States: Czech Republic, Greece, Spain, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Finland and Sweden. 
They also presented several special reports to the relevant national parliamentary committees. 
Meeting with French Minister for Public Action and Budgets Gérald Darmanin (Paris, December 2017) 
Our activities 24 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Institutions of EU Member States In 2017, we organised the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the 28 EU Member States and chaired it. 
The main topic of the talks was the role of the SAIs in restoring EU citizens' confidence in national and supranational state institutions. 
In addition, the Court took part in the activities of the working bodies on the following topics: European Banking Union, Structural Funds, Europe 2020 strategy, fiscal policy audit, VAT, public sector accounting principles in EU Member States (EPSAS) and preventing and combating irregularities and fraud. 
In addition, we support the SAIs of Candidate Countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Kosovo*, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey). This support is primarily provided through a network comparable to the Contact Committee. 
In 2017, nine ORKB auditors from the network participated in our internship program. 
We also actively contributed to several meetings and activities of this network. This included addressing issues such as the fight against fraud and corruption, as well as the organisation of accounting audit and compliance audit workshops. 
We also participated in a parallel performance audit in the field of public procurement carried out under the auspices of the SAI of Sweden. 
The purpose of this meeting was to adopt a work programme for 2018 and beyond. * This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the ICJ Opinion on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence. 
Discussions between the representatives of the EU Contact Committee in the Conference Room of the European Court of Auditors Meeting of the EU Contact Committee, 12-13. 
Our activities 25 INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2017, we continued our active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI, especially in our role as Vice-Chair of the Committee for Technical Standards and as a member of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting and Accounting, the Subcommittee for the Audit of Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Performance Audits. 
In addition, we actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI working bodies and working bodies of EUROSAI. 
Our mandate as a member of the EURO SAI Bureau ended with the X. EUROSAI Congress in May 2017. • INTOSAI - International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions • EUROSAI - European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Audit, October 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg 
Our management 26 The College of Members of the Court The term of office of the members of the Court is six years; Reappointment is permitted. 
Members shall carry out their activities in full independence for the general good of the EU. 
When taking office, they shall take an oath before the Court of Justice of the European Union. 
The College consists of 28 members, one from each Member State. 
The individual members are appointed by the Council of the EU, after consulting the European Parliament, in accordance with the proposals of the respective national government. 
In 2017, the Council appointed two new members: • Juhan Parts (Estonia), who took office on 1 January 2017; • Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary), who took office on 1 September 2017. 
President Members elect a president from among them for a period of three years; Re-election is permitted. 
The role of the president is that of a Primus inter pares ("first among equals"). 
In addition to his other responsibilities, the President oversees the performance of the Court's duties and represents him to the outside world. 
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany) was elected president. 
Audit chambers and committees The members are assigned to one of the five audit chambers of the Court. The boards adopt audit reports, opinions and other analysis-based publications. 
The chambers are under the direction of a doyen elected by the members from among them. 
Each member is responsible for his or her specific audit tasks. 
Members are supported by their cabinet. 
As of December 2017, the five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens: Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom), Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria), Karel Pinxten (Belgium), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain) and Lazaros S. Lazarou (Cyprus). 
Daničle Lamarque (France) chaired the Audit Quality Control Committee. 
Rimantas Šadžius (Lithuania) was responsible for coordinating the Court's inter-institutional relations. 
Decisions on further strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President. 
The members of the Court of Auditors met in 2017 for 21 college meetings. 
Photo: College meeting of 7 September 2017 
Our management 27 organisation chart of the European Court of Auditors (status: 31. December 2017) President Chamber I Sustainable Use of Natural Resources Phil WYNN OWEN United Kingdom Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Janusz WOJCIECHOWSKI Poland Samo JEREB Slovenia Joăo FIGUEIREDO Portugal Klaus-Heiner LEHNE Germany Chamber II Investment for Cohesion, Growth and Integration Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Ladislav BALKO Slovakia George PUFAN Romania Oskar HERICS Austria Chamber III External Policies, security and Justice Karel PINXTEN Belgium Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Ville ITÄLÄ Finland Bettina JAKOBSEN Denmark Juhan PARTS Estonia Chamber IV Market regulation and competitive economy Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Neven MATES Croatia Alex BRENNINKMEIJER Netherlands Rimantas ŠADŽIUS Lithuania Ildikó GÁLL-PELCZ Hungary Chamber V Financing and Administration of Union Lazaros S. LAZAROU Cyprus Pietro RUSSOSO Italy Jan GREGOR Czech Republic Mihails KOZLOVS Latvia Leo BRINCAT Malta Member of the Committee on Quality Control in Daničle LAMARQUE France Doyen Doyen Doyen Doyen Doyen Doyen 
Our Management 28 Strategy The next three years will be a crucial period for the European Union in which essential decisions must be made. 
We are aware that EU citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that the EU can successfully address the challenges that arise. 
Citizens must be able to see that the EU acts with integrity, respects the rule of law, uses taxpayers' money prudently, pursues clear objectives and achieves the results it has promised. 
As an external auditor of the EU, we can contribute to this. 
Our strategy for 2018-2020: In July 2017, we published our strategy for the period 2018-2020, in which we set four strategic objectives: • Provision of clear statements for our addressees; • greater focus on the performance aspects of EU action; • Improving the added value of the Statement of Assurance; • Directing our entire organisation to our products. 
After all, the EU is not about figures, but about people Through its external financial control, the Court can show what works in the EU's spending and activities and what is not, it can assist EU citizens in answering the question whether the EU institutions deliver results, thereby helping to strengthen trust in the EU. 
In this sense, the Court's audits must also address what concerns European citizens, its most important addressees at last instance. 
The 2018-2020 strategy identifies five priority areas for the Court's work in the coming years. 
Sustainable management of natural resources and combating climate change Investments for cohesion, growth and integration challenges related to migration, security and global sustainable development A functioning single market and stable monetary union financing and management of the Union while respecting accountability and economic viability 
Our management 29 As part of the development of our strategy, we placed a strong emphasis on internal and external consultation. 
We discussed the strategy with our staff and addressed Members of the European Parliament, representatives of EU Member States, the European Commission, other Supreme Audit Institutions and non-institutional stakeholders such as academics, think tanks, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and private sector auditors. 
The Court's strategy for 2018-2020 is available on our website (eca.europa.eu). 
In January 2017, we decided to introduce new planning procedures, which we applied for the first time to our annual work programme for 2018 which was published in October last year. 
The most important changes in our work planning: • Drawing up a list of audit tasks for the Court as a whole; • centralised procedure for the selection of audit ideas, possible audit tasks and final audit proposals; • more flexible allocation of resources to and distribution of resources between the individual audit chambers, taking into account the workload; • Extension of the product range to include testing tasks that result in analysis-based publications; • Definition of high-priority audit tasks for which shorter deadlines apply. 
We have also agreed with the Conference of Committee Chairs of the European Parliament a procedure whereby all Parliament's standing committees can propose potential audit topics to the Court. 
The Court's work programme for 2018 is available on our website (eca.europa.eu). 
In the period 2013-2017, we applied seven Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform management about the progress achieved towards our goals, to support the decision-making process, and to provide our addressees with information about our performance. 
The indicators were used to measure core parameters regarding the quality and impact of our work, taking particular account of the point of view of key addressees and the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of resources. 
A revised set of performance indicators will be introduced in 2018, valid for the period 2018-2020. 
Quality and impact of our work We assessed the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of assessments by addressees and expert reviews. Another evaluation criterion was the follow-up to our recommendations to improve EU financial management. 
We asked our main institutional addressees and peers - the Committee on Budgetary Control and the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, the Council's Committee on Budgets, the main audited bodies at the Commission and the European Agencies, and the Presidents of the EU-ORKB - to assess our reports. 
Similar to previous years, the vast majority of respondents rated the relevance and impact of our reports as "high" or "very high" in 2017. 
Each year, independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of our reports to assess their quality. 
In 2017, the auditors assessed six special reports* and the 2016 annual reports. 
They assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high quality" (4). 
The results have changed only slightly in recent years, with the quality of our reports being assessed as "satisfactory". * In 2017, the verifiers assessed our special reports No. 3/2017, No. 4/2017, No. 5/2017, No 10/2017, No 14/2017 and No 17/2017. 
Assessment by addressees Relevance of reports Probable impact of reports 2 100 % very low 16 61 21 21 37 37 5 0 % 20 % very high 40 % 60 % 80 % high moderately low reviews of the Court reports by experts 2017 2016 2015 3,3 3.2 3.3 3.3 3.1 Quality assessment 01234 
Over the course of the year, we systematically reviewed the extent to which our recommendations had been implemented by the audited bodies. 
By the end of 2017, this was the case for 92 % of the recommendations we made in 2014. 
100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 % Implementation of the Court's recommendations after year of delivery 92 % 80 % 59 % 53 % 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Court in the Media mirror 31 % 4 % 65 % The Court's Annual Reports Special Reports in the General Media Presence We also follow how we report on our work and our institution in the media. 
In 2017, 65 % of the references in the online media related to our work and our institution were related to special reports. 
Overall, the number of media reports on our special reports increased by 11 % compared to 2016. 
The Court's reports, which received the largest media echo in 2017, were the special reports on the Greek financial crisis, registration centres for migrants (hotspots), fisheries control, greening and the Natura 2000 network. 
Our management 32 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 Special Reports of the Court - average number of online articles per special report 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The increase in media reports on our special reports in 2017 corresponds to a trend that has been observed for several years. 
While fewer than 1,500 online articles were published in 2013, this figure has risen to almost 7 000 in 2017. The average number of articles drafted per special report has increased from an average of less than 30 in 2013 to almost 130 in 2017. 
As part of our performance measurement, we also assess our use of resources, in particular our ability to carry out audits in a timely manner, implement our work programme and ensure the expertise of our employees. 
In 2017, an average of 14.6 months passed from the start of an audit task to the adoption of a special report. 
This is the shortest processing time since the beginning of the period 2013-2017. 
For the preparation of eight reports (29 %) published during the year, we took less than 13 months. 
It took an average of 16 months to publish the reports, about two months less than in 2016. 
This positive trend indicates that the measures aimed at achieving the 13-month target set out in the Financial Regulation are bearing fruit. 
18 17 16 15 14 13 12 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Duration from the start of the audit task until the report is adopted 
In 2017, 65 % of our special reports were published according to the original plan. 
The remaining reports have been postponed and will be published in 2018. 
In addition, our annual reports and all special annual reports have been published as planned. 
In line with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we strive to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training per year. 
In 2017, we were again above this target with 6.7 training days per examiner. 
If the language courses required for the efficient work of our auditors in all EU Member States are also taken into account, one examiner spent an average of 8.3 days of training in 2017. 
For the other employees, we have set ourselves the goal of providing an average of 16 hours (two days) of professional training (without language courses). 
In 2017, this target was met with an average of 2.3 training days. 
Average training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Goal = 5 days 6.2 7.0 6.7 2015 2016 2017 days 
Our staff 34 Staff allocation In 2017, we completed the 5 % reduction in staff for a period of five years (2013-2017), as set out in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013. 
At the end of 2017, 853 officials and temporary staff worked at the Court. 548 of them worked in the examination chambers, including 118 employees in the members' cabinets. 
Attitude The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background. 
With our recruitment policy, we follow the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promote equal opportunities at all levels. 
Staff members include both officials and temporary staff. 
Open competitions are usually organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
In 2017, the Court hired 72 employees: 29 officials, 13 temporary agents, 24 contract staff (seven of whom left the Court by the end of the year) and six seconded national experts. 
In addition, we provided 71 university graduates with internships for periods of three to five months. 
Court's staff allocation 137 138 123 124 49 43 Audit services 2017 Translation Administration Services of the President Total: 853 553 548 
Our employees 35 Age profile The age profile of the 31st December 2017 in active employment shows that nearly half of our employees are 44 years old or younger. 
31 of the 68 directors and senior managers of the Court (46 %) are 55 years of age or older. 
As a result, in the next five to ten years, when these employees retire, there will be a renewal in senior management positions. 
Balance between men and women The Court pursues an equal opportunities policy covering all stages of the career of its employees. 
Overall, we have achieved a balanced proportion of men and women among our employees; 43 % of our auditors and boards are women. 
In recent years, we have succeeded in increasing the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers from 7 % in 2015 to almost 20 % in 2017. 
We continue to work towards achieving a balance between men and women at all levels of management. 
In addition, our Equal Opportunities Policy for the period 2018-2020 concerns issues related to age and disability. 
More detailed information on the nationality and gender of managers is given in the table below. 
Age profile 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 0.3 % 2.3 % 4.8 % 0.4 % 5 % 7.6 % 17.0 % 10 % 15 % 20 % 25 % 17.1 % 10.8 % 21.0 % 18.7 % Relationship between men and women at responsibility level 34 % 66 % Assistants and Secretaries Examiners and Management Boards 57 % 43 % 63 % 37 % 0 % 20 % 40 % 60 % 100 % 
In 2017, we further expanded our training offer; among other things, the number of courses in the fields of e-learning and integrated learning (Blended Learning) has been increased. 
We continued our successful series of presentations held by internal or external experts on developments in the field of audit and other topics related to the work of our auditors. 
We also organised several trainings and events where experts from other Supreme Audit Institutions presented knowledge and best practices on performance audits and audits of accounts. 
A good example of this is the annual "Training Day", organised in November 2017 in cooperation with the University of Luxembourg and attended by over 300 employees. 
We work closely with the European Commission, the European Institute of Public Administration (EIPA) and the European Administrative Academy (EUSA) to offer a wide range of training courses to our staff: This includes both specialist courses in the field of examination and courses for the development of personal competences as well as work-related language courses. 
In addition, we supported our employees in acquiring or maintaining professional qualifications and degrees in the areas relevant to the Court's role and work. 
In particular, we continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France), in which the postgraduate course "Audit of public organisations and policies" and the Master's programme "Management of public organisations" are offered. 
We also signed a cooperation agreement with the European University Institute (ECI) in Florence (Italy). 
In 2017, we established a partnership with the University of Pisa (Italy) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accoun-tants (ACCA) to organise a summer course in public financial control and accountability. 
Last year, we awarded the best submitted contribution with the Court's 2016 award for scientific work in the field of public sector auditing. 
37 We continued our Performance Recognition Awards program, which allows non-executive employees to participate in specific external training. 
Translation The Court's Directorate for Translations, Language Services and Publication has translated and revised over 211 000 pages. 
We continued our efforts to streamline translation processes and reduce the associated costs. 
For example, all our translation teams now use a collaborative work platform to increase efficiency. 
We strive to increasingly involve our translators in our core activities and to create further synergies with our auditors. 
In particular, translators in 2017 increasingly supported the auditors in the linguistic preparation of the special reports and the annual report. 
They also provided linguistic support to our auditors during 38 audit visits. 
Information Technology Our IT Directorate makes a decisive contribution to our auditing processes by optimising information flows using modern and secure technologies. 
We made further progress in document management and were able to fully digitise the processes in the area of production, acceptance and publication. 
We introduced a simplified tool to facilitate remote access via mobile devices. 
In addition, we performed a system upgrade (installation of Windows 10 and SharePoint 2013). 
In order to make better use of inter-institutional synergies, we introduced new systems for managing audits, missions and training, which are currently being used by other EU institutions. 
Support for audit activities 38 buildings The Court currently owns three buildings ("K1", "K2" and "K3") and rents office space for its data recovery centre in Luxembourg. 
K1 The K1 building, which opened in 1988, has offices for up to 310 employees and meeting rooms. 
In the basement there are parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, the library and the main archive, while the entire top floor is used for technical facilities. 
The K1 building was modernised in 2008 to bring it into line with national health, safety and environmental requirements. 
As far as possible, the technology in the K1 building has been adapted to achieve compatibility with the K2 and K3 buildings. 
As a result, the three buildings form a single integrated technical unit. 
K2 The K2 building was opened in 2003. 
In the basement there are parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms and the fitness centre. 
The entire top floor is used for technical installations. 
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees; they also have meeting rooms, a conference room with interpreting booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and a basic kitchen area. 
The Court commissioned a study to assess the feasibility of setting up activity-related work areas and the modernisation of K2's technical installations. 
According to the study, the design of work areas could be improved and some technical installations need to be modernised. 
A detailed study on this project will be carried out in 2018; work is expected to start in 2019. 
As approved by the Council and the European Parliament in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds of the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation. 
Security Control Centre 201 827 m˛ 2 K1 198 826 550 m˛ 310 K3 K2 200 321 500 m˛ 241 Year of construction Gross area total (m˛) Workstations 201 234 500 m˛ 503 
39 K3 The K3 building was opened in 2012. 
In the basement there are parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, unloading areas, equipment for storing waste, printing, kitchens and archives. 
The ground floor consists of the canteen, a cafeteria and training rooms. 
In addition, this building has offices for 503 employees, meeting rooms and an IT room. 
On the sixth floor there are reception rooms, a kitchen and technical facilities. 
Based on the world's leading Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), the K3 building was rated as "very good". 
Project for safety at work In 2017, the project to strengthen the safety of the farm and its employees was continued as planned. 
The new Security Control Centre, the External Accreditation Centre and the Access Control Centre for Employees and Visitors will be operational in 2018. 
Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, we consider it our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities and we strive to continuously reduce the environmental impact of the Court. 
In 2017, we received the Eco Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). 
We now successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015. 
Our goal is to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions. 
In 2017, for the third year in a row, we analysed the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities (i.e. our carbon footprint). 
The results of this study are available on our website (eca.europa.eu). 
Accountability of the 40 Court Financial Information The Court is financed from the general budget of the European Union, with its budget falling within the area of administrative expenditure. 
In 2017, the Court's budget amounted to around 141 million euro. 
This represents less than 0.1 % of the EU's total expenditure, or around 1.5 % of the EU's total administrative expenditure. 
The share of appropriations used in the 2017 budget amounted to 98 %. 
Implementation of the 2017 budget HAUSHALTSYHR 2017 Final appropriations Commitments Use of appropriations in % payment Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 - Members of the institution 11 200 10 672 95 % 10 598 12 - Officials and temporary staff 102 470 101 088 99 % 101 010 14 - Other staff and external services 5 716 5 464 96 % 5 333 162 - Missions 3 450 3 035 88 % 2 575 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 2775 2 530 91 % 1901 Subtotal Title 1 125611 122 789 98 % 121 417 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditures 20 - Buildings 3 546 3 541 99 % 1 669 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 8 148 8 148 100 % 4 563 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and ancillary costs 999 942 94 % 736 23 - Current material expenditure for operations 434 293 68 % 221 25 - Meetings and conferences 733 664 91 % 443 27 - Information and publications 1 769 1 663 94 % 1 082 Subtotal Title 2 15629 1525 98 % 8714 In total 141240 138040 98 % 130 131 
The Court's accountability 41 Budget 2018 saw an increase of 3.4 % in the 2018 budget compared to 2017. 
Budget 2018 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 20 - Building 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and related costs 23 - Current operating expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 12 515 11300 106 600 103 632 5 745 545 3 450 3 450 2 930 3 216 7 492 7 408 1 157 925 555 438 706 676 1876 2306 HAUSHALT 2018 2017 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 2 990 2788 Subtotal Title 1 131300 126 271 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure Subtotal Title 2 14 716 14969 Total 146016 141240 
Accountability of the Court 42 Risk Management During the year, as required by the Financial Regulation, we reviewed the risk assessments prepared for each Directorate. 
The results of these checks shall be reflected in the annual statement by the authorising officer by delegation contained in the Annual Activity Report and shall be used for the risk assessments of the following year. 
Where necessary, we prepared action plans for ex ante and ex-post controls. 
In September 2017, following the implementation of these checks, we strengthened internal controls and financial procedures related to travel expenses and the management of service vehicles. 
Internal and external audit Internal Audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues. 
It shall deliver opinions on the quality of management and internal control systems and report to an Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and an external expert. 
The Committee regularly monitors progress on the various tasks laid down in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and ensures the independence of the department. 
In 2017, the Service examined the implementation of the Court's 2013-2017 strategy, the operational structure of the President's Services Directorate and the management of our software licenses and products. 
It also examined the implementation of the Court's risk management policy and monitored the implementation of its recommendations to ensure that the Action Plans take shape. 
The Internal Auditor considers that in 2017 the existing governance, risk management and internal control procedures provide sufficient assurance that the Court's objectives are met. 
We report annually to Parliament and the Council on the results of internal audit work. 
External audit Our annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor. 
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying to ourselves the same principles of transparency and accountability as for the bodies we audit. 
The auditor's report - PricewaterhouseCoopers S.ŕ r.l. - on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2016 was published on 31 October 2017. 
Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure. 
In April 2017, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2015. 
This means that our financial statements for 2015 have been finalised. 
As every year, we have carefully analysed the issues raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility, took appropriate action and reported to the European Parliament on our follow-up. 
Accountability of the Court 43 audit opinions of the independent auditor - financial year 2016 To the Court's annual accounts: "According to our assessment, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31. December 2016 and its performance, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ended on that reference date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 299, 31.12.2012, p. 
L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1), hereinafter referred to as "budget regulation", and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29. Oct 2012 on the rules of application of the Financial Regulation.' On the use of resources and the Court's control procedures: "In our work steps described in this report, we have not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria, the resources allocated to the Court were not used for the intended purposes and the control procedures put in place do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 
The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, • • - - that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate and confirms with reasonable assurance that the funds allocated to the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of allegations of fraud or suspicion of fraud, the costs and benefits of the controls are proportionate. 
This guarantee is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as the reports and declarations of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years. 
Done at Luxembourg, 8 March 2018 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 
Annex - Publications 45 in 2017: Special Reports, Opinions and Analysis-Based Publications Special Reports • Special Report No 30/2016: Effectiveness of EU support to priority sectors in Honduras • Special Report No 33/2016: Union Civil Protection Mechanism: coordination of disaster response measures outside the EU has been largely effective • Special Report No 34/2016: Combating food waste: an opportunity for the EU to improve the resource efficiency of the food supply chain • Special Report No 35/2016: The use of budget support to improve domestic revenue mobilisation in sub-Saharan Africa • Special Report No 36/2016: Assessment of the arrangements for the closure of cohesion and rural development programmes for the period 2007-2013 • Special Report No 1/2017: Network "Natura 2000": Further efforts are needed to exploit its full potential • Special Report No 2/2017: The Commission's negotiations on the Partnership Agreements and Programmes of Cohesion Policy 2014-2020: focus spending on Europe 2020 priorities, but increasingly complex performance measurement rules • Special Report No 3/2017: EU assistance to Tunisia • Special Report No 4/2017: Protection of the EU budget against irregular expenditure: The Commission has increasingly used preventive measures and financial corrections in the area of cohesion during the 2007-2013 period • Special Report No 5/2017: Youth unemployment - Have the EU's actions had an impact? • Special report No 6/2017: The EU's response to the refugee crisis: the "hotspot concept" • Special Report No 7/2017: The new role of Certification Bodies in the field of CAP expenditure: a positive step towards the "single audit" model, but significant weaknesses still need to be addressed • Special Report No 8/2017: EU fisheries control: more efforts needed • Special Report No 9/2017: EU support to combat trafficking in human beings in South and Southeast Asia • Special Report No 10/2017: EU support to young farmers should be more targeted to promote effective generational renewal • Special Report No 11/2017: The EU Trust Fund Bękou for the Central African Republic: despite some weaknesses, a hopeful start • Special Report No 12/2017: Implementation of the Drinking Water Directive: In Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania, higher water quality and better access to water have been achieved, but investment needs remain high • Special Report No 13/2017: A single European rail traffic management system: Will the political decision ever become a reality? • Special report No 14/2017: Assessment of the efficiency of the Court of Justice of the European Union in dealing with cases Annex 46 • Special Report No 15/2017: Ex ante conditionalities and performance reserve in cohesion policy: innovative but not yet effective instruments • Special Report No 16/2017: Rural development programming: Complexity needs to be reduced and focus on results increased • Special Report No 17/2017: The role of the Commission in the Greek financial crisis • Special Report No 18/2017: Single European Sky: a changed culture, but not a single airspace • Special Report No 19/2017: Import procedures: Weaknesses in the legal framework and ineffective implementation affect the financial interests of the EU • Special Report No 20/2017: EU-funded loan guarantee instruments: positive results, but more targeted selection of beneficiaries and coordination with national programmes required • Special Report No 21/2017: Greening: a more complex income support scheme that is not yet ecologically effective • Special Report No 22/2017: Election observation missions - efforts to follow up on the recommendations have been made, but better monitoring is needed • Special Report No 23/2017: Single Resolution Board: First steps towards the banking union have been taken, but there is still a long way to go to the objective of opinions • Opinion No 1/2017 on the proposal for a revision of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union • Opinion No 2/2017 on the proposal to amend the Financial Regulation on the financial management of the European Schools • Opinion No 3/2017 and No 4/2017 on proposals for amending Regulations of the Committee on Budgets of the European Union Intellectual Property Office • Opinion No 5/2017 on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the statute and financing of European political parties and European political foundations Analysis-based publications • Landscape analysis: EU action in the field of energy and climate change • Rapid Case Review to implement the 5 % reduction of posts 
Paid publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu). (c) European Union, 2018 Playback is permitted with reference to the source. 
De 2018 Activity report 
European APARTMENT HOUSE 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBURG Tel. + 352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/de/Pages/ContactForm.aspx website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditors 02 Numerous further information on the European Union is available via Internet, Server Europe (http://europa.eu). 
Luxembourg: Office of Publications of the European Union, 2019 Print ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-1854-2 HTML ISBN 978-92-847-1818-4 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/092674 doi:10.2865/049466 doi:10.2865/607255 QJ-AA-19-001-EN-C QJ-AA-19-001-EN-N QJ-AA-19-001-EN-Q 
1 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors on 1 May 2018 
Content Preface of the President 5 2018 at a glance 6 Our activities 7 Strategy 7 Focus - communication activity around our products 8 audits 10 work planning 12 on-site audits 13 publications 17 Important events 37 Relations with institutional addressees 41 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKB) 44 Our management 46 The College of Members of the Court 46 Audit Chambers and Committees 49 Performance measurement 50 Our staff 58 Staff recruitment 58 Recruitment 58 Age profile 59 Balanced ratio of men and women 60 2 
Support for audit activities 62 Professional training 62 Translation 63 Information, working environment and innovation 64 Buildings 65 Strengthening the safety of the Court 67 Environmental management 67 Accountability of the Court 68 Financial information 68 Internal and external audit 70 Statement by the authorising officer by delegation 73 Annex - Publications in 2018: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and analysis-based products 74 3 
European Court of Auditors 4 About the Court The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the external auditor of the European Union. 
It was established in 1977 and is one of the seven institutions of the EU. 
The Court is based in Luxembourg and employs around 900 staff of all EU nationalities, composed of auditors and staff in horizontal services and administration. 
One member from each EU Member State belongs to the Court's College. 
We check whether the EU ensures proper accounting, correctly implements its financial rules, and whether its policies and programmes achieve the objectives pursued and ensure optimal use of funds. 
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the EU's financial management and promoting accountability and transparency. 
The Court makes its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national governments and parliaments and the general public. 
President's foreword 5 Dear reader, dear reader! 
We are now increasingly focusing on assessing the performance of EU action, communicating our statements to the Court's audience in a clear form and increasing the value of our work for our stakeholders. 
In this activity report, we provide an overview of our work in 2018 in which we published the highest number of special reports, analyses and opinions so far. 
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances. 
Our reports provide an impartial assessment of the Union's policies and programmes and the quality of EU financial management within and outside the European Union. 
We examine whether EU spending complies with the rules and whether Union policies and programmes ensure optimal use of funds. 
We will be delighted to work with the newly elected European Parliament and the new European Commission to further improve EU financial management and ensure that the EU achieves results. 
This report manifests our determination to continue to adapt the Court's organisation in order to "prepare us for the future" and continue to shape developments in the field of public sector audit. 
44 record number of publications presented to EU legislators 43 European Parliament 44 Council Global Audit Leadership Forum organised in around 45 international activities 834 staff from all Member States 50: 50 FEATURED MANY AND COMMISSIONAL Staff Annual Report on the EU Budget: Unrestricted opinion on the EU's accounts for opinions: 10, mainly on the MFF for 2021-2027 Impact of our work: Limited opinion on payments 6 to publications: 35 Special Reports 9 Analysis-based publications Record Number Most of our recommendations implemented High media coverage: + 17 000 online Article 4 new members of the Court 5 Members' term extensions to addressees consider our work to be useful and effective social media contributions displayed 11 million times 
Our activities Strategy 2018 is the first year of our current strategy, which covers the period up to and including 2020. 
Our strategic objectives for this three-year period are: O Improving the added value of the Statement of Assurance with regard to the current EU financial management, o stronger focus on the performance aspects of EU action, o communicating clear statements to our audience. 
In addition, we have agreed to align our overall organisation even better with our products. 
In order to implement our strategy, we have agreed on an action plan for these objectives in order to remain among the leaders in public sector audit developments. 
At the end of 2018, all these measures were underway. 
At the same time, we have already commissioned an independent peer review process to implement our strategy. The expert assessment is expected to be completed by the end of 2019 - further information in the Court's accountability chapter. 
Progress towards achieving our strategic objectives 7 
In focus - the communication activity around our products Making clear statements for our target group Communication is crucial if we want to achieve our strategic goal of communicating clear statements for our target group. It consists of the political institutions of the EU and the Member States responsible for the control and management of the Union's policies and programmes, the other Supreme Audit Institutions, companies and industrial organisations, scientists and, last but not least, the general public - our main stakeholder. 
In 2018, we saw the media's interest in our work. 
Our special reports in particular attracted great interest in the media and were also discussed more and more in national and EU-oriented media channels - further information in the chapter on the media presence. 
In 2018, we published 12 audit previews (previously referred to as "background papers"). These are intended to serve as a source of information for all those interested in specific policy areas or programmes for which audits are underway. 
The information presented in it is based on the preparatory work before the start of an ongoing audit task. 
Audit projections have contributed to the stable and balanced output of the Court's publications throughout the year: 2018 was the first year in which there was no single month without a ECA release. 
We will continue to publish this type of communication products in 2019. 8 
Journal While our findings and recommendations for improving EU financial management are set out in our audit reports, the Court's journal focuses on our way of working and our staff who produce reports on different areas. 
Now each issue is dedicated to a different overarching theme. 
In 2018, the Court's journal focused on a wide range of issues such as EU pre-accession assistance, Parliament's financing and audit and EU financial and economic governance, as well as our special reports, our work programme, our international cooperation and our forward-looking actions with the aim of "preparing the Court for the future". 
An insight into our facility 9 Downloads 2018 2017 9 314 16 357 
Audits Stronger focus on performance We carry out different types of audits in the different areas of the EU budget: O Performance audits - the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes are considered here. The focus of these audits on optimal use of funds is on specific management or budgetary issues. 
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court weighs the risks to profitability or compliance, the level of revenue or expenditure concerned, and the political and public interest; O Audits of accounting and compliance audits - consider the reliability of the annual accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying financial transactions - in particular in relation to the statement of assurance - and whether the systems in specific budgetary areas comply with the rules. 
Our random sampling procedure ensures the same probability of testing for each euro spent. 
Our audits focus on issues that reflect relevant issues for the EU, such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, migration and global development challenges, Single Market and Banking Union, and ensuring the accountability and profitability of the European Union. 
Based on the evidence obtained in our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the extent to which the EU's policy objectives have been achieved, as well as the state of the Union's budgetary and financial management. 
Our audits comply with internationally recognised public sector audit principles. 
The audit work is divided into the following phases: 10 
Planning Determination of the expediency and feasibility of a proposed audit. 
Multidisciplinary teams shall gather on-the-spot audit work in the Commission's Headquarters as well as in Member States and beneficiary countries. 
Drafting 03 04 05 06 11 01 02 Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions. 
Confirmation of the facts and findings by the audited body. 
Adoption of the report by the Audit Chamber or the entire Court College. 
Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the reply of the audited body. 
Work planning audit priorities are based on the EU's main concerns Our work programme is decided annually by the members of the Court. 
In January 2018, President Lehne presented the 2018 Work Programme to the Conference of Committee Chairs of the European Parliament and invited all Parliament's committees to propose potential audit topics for the 2019 Work Programme as part of the annual stakeholder consultations. 
12 In October 2018, we published the first work programme prepared in accordance with the new strategy. In this work programme for 2019, we presented in detail our audit priorities and the 36 reports and analysis-based products planned for this year. 
These tasks covered, at least in part, 29 of the 69 proposals submitted by Parliament (42 %) (2017: 32 %. 
Our audits will continue to address key issues such as the sustainable use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, migration, security and global development, the Single Market and the EU's accountability and profitability to determine whether the EU achieves what it has promised. 
On-site audits 3 761 days of audit work - inside and outside the EU The majority of our audit work takes place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg. 
At the same time, our auditors also carry out numerous audit visits to the European Commission, the main body audited by the Court; this also applies to the other EU institutions, agencies and bodies and the EU Delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, as well as international organisations, to which EU funds are channelled. 
In addition, we carry out on-site audits within and outside the European Union with beneficiaries of EU funds. 
Through these audits, we can trace the audit path and obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes, as well as the collection or disbursement of EU funds, as well as from the respective beneficiaries. 13 
The frequency and intensity of our audit work in each Member State and beneficiary country depends on the type of audit we carry out. 
In 2018, our auditors spent 3 761 days (2017: 3 670 days) with on-site inspections in Member States and outside the EU. 
Within the EU, our on-the-spot audits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States visited. 
In addition, our auditors spent 2 723 days (2017: 2 300 days) at the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg as well as decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations or the OECD, and audit firms. 
To obtain and validate audit evidence, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies, such as the secure exchange of data and documents. 14 
Days spent in 2018 as part of audit missions within and outside the EU 15 Italy Germany Poland France Spain Spain Greece Portugal Netherlands Sweden Romania Czech Republic Bulgaria Slovenia United Kingdom Lithuania Finland Denmark Estonia Austria Hungary 40 Belgium 38 Ireland 37 Slovakia 34 Latvia 22 Croatia 12 Malta 10 Luxembourg 3 St Lucia 1 St Vincent and the Grenadines 1 Albania 3 Dominica 3 Switzerland 6 Canada 10 Norway 11 Algeria 14 Botswana 18 Laos 19 Tunisia 19 Kenya 20 Ethiopia 21 Lebanon 21 Niger 21 Sierra Leone 23 Guinea 25 Ukraine 25 Djibouti 26 Japan 26 United States 26 Isr ael 27 Mozambique 28 Barbados 30 Haiti 33 Turkey 33 231 185 176 147 136 122 101 94 87 85 83 70 65 65 56 51 355 347 335 292 Third countries (489 audit days) 6 480 audit days EU institutions and international organisations (2 723 audit days) of which: Brussels and Luxembourg (1 637 audit days) EU Member States (3 272 audit days) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 Note: Deviations in the formation of sums are due to rounding. 
We work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to combat fraud at the expense of the EU budget. 
These cases will then be followed up by OLAF, which decides on possible investigations and, if necessary, cooperates with the authorities of the Member States. 
Although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we occasionally encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activity. 
In 2018, we led nine such cases (2017: 13 cases), in which there was a suspicion of fraud, to OLAF. 
Additional information on the nature of suspected fraud reported to OLAF and related recoveries, as recommended by OLAF, can be found in our annual reports on the general budget of the EU. 16 
Publications New record: highest number of publications in 2018 Our audit reports, analyses and opinions form an important link in the EU accountability chain. 
They help the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to monitor and verify the EU's achievement of its policy objectives and to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's budgetary management accountable, in particular in the context of the annual discharge procedure. 
These are primarily the European Commission, but also the other EU institutions and bodies. 
National, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role in areas under shared management where most of the EU budget is spent; these include, among others, agricultural and cohesion measures. 
Number of Special Reports and Analysis-Based Publications (2015-2018) 17 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2017 22 38 30 44 Year Number of publications 
To our publications: Special and annual reports setting out the results of selected audits on specific policy or expenditure areas or on budgetary or management issues; O Annual Reports containing mainly the results of the audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the budget of the European Union and on the European Development Funds, but also on budgetary and performance aspects; O Special Annual Reports on EU Agencies, Decentralised Bodies and Joint Undertakings published separately. 
Opinions and analysis-based publications o Opinions on new or amended acts with a significant impact on financial management, either mandatory under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) or produced at the request of another institution or at the Court's own initiative; O Topic papers are descriptive and analytical documents on policy or management with a focus on specific issues; O Landscape analyses are similar to thematic papers, but they focus on complex, broad policy areas or management issues, often from a cross-cutting perspective; rapid Case Reviews, which compile facts related to very clearly defined specific topics or problems. If necessary, they include an evaluation that allows a better understanding of these facts. 
Finally, we present background information on future or ongoing audit tasks in the form of audit previews - further information in the chapter on communication activity around our products. 
All our publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu) and listed at the end of this report. 18 
19 6Years Reports: • EU budget • European Development Fund • 41 EU agencies and bodies • 8 Joint Research Undertakings • European Schools • Contingent liabilities of the SRB, the Commission and the Council 2018 Publications of the ECA Topic papers: New • Future of finance Audit previews 35 SPECIFICATIONS Complete list on page 21 Opinions: • EU funding and rule of law • European Monetary Fund • European Development Fund • Protection of whistleblowers of the EU • Future of the CAP • Simplification of research programmes • Integration of migrants • Simplification of cohesion policy • New Multiannual Financial Framework Landscape analyses • Application of Union law in practice • Mobility and transport Quick analysis • VAT refund in the area of cohesion • Animal welfare • Food safety • Wind power and photovoltaics • Ecologically produced food Supervision in the EU insurance sector • Facility for refugees in Turkey • Cross-border healthcare • Consultation of public • Desertification • Electronic trade • Fund for aid for the most disadvantaged • Competition rules • Own resources reform • Cohesion Fund reform • Reform of the common agricultural policy • OLAF and future EPPO • Anti-fraud programme • New development aid instrument 10 9 12 OPINIONAL ANALYSEBASED audit previews PRODUCTS (previously referred to as 'background papers') 
Special Reports We assess the performance of EU actions in our special reports In line with our strategy for 2018-2020, we are increasingly focusing on assessing the performance of EU action in order to ensure that the resources of EU citizens are optimally used. 
In 2018, we published 35 special reports (2017: 28 special reports) on the different areas of EU spending, where we addressed the challenges facing the EU, such as air pollution, the high-speed rail network, the Facility for Refugees in Turkey, banking supervision and the financing of non-governmental organisations (NGOs). 
In these special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved in an effective and economic way, and whether EU funds have created added value - i.e. whether they have achieved more than can be achieved by action at national level alone. 
We also make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or achieving the policy objectives more cost-effectively. 
At this point, we will examine two of our special reports from 2018: a special report on high-speed rail transport in the EU and one on the Facility for Refugees in Turkey. 
In line with the EU Financial Regulation, we strive to prepare our special reports within 13 months. 20 
Competitiveness for growth and employment ECONOMIC, SOCIALS AND TERRITORICAL SUMMARY 21 Special Reports: • Jaspers • Worker mobility • Durability of projects • Public-private partnerships • Broadband development • Expenditure of cohesion expenditure • High-speed rail transport • Project performance • Erasmus+ programme • Horizon 2020 simplification • Passenger and passenger rights Special reports by the Court in 2018 NATURAL RESSOURCEN Special reports: • Renewable energy • Basic payment scheme • Simplified financing options • Air quality • CO2 capture and storage • Flood prevention • Animal welfare • Desertification EUROPE IN THE WORLD Special reports: • EU assistance to Myanmar/Burma • Pre-accession assistance to Turkey • EU assistance to the Sahel • African Peace and Security Architecture • Facility for Refugees in Turkey • Trust Fund for Africa • Better regulation • IT systems for customs • EU buildings • Financing of NGOs SECURITY AND UNIONS Special reports: • Fight against radicalisation • Chemical and biological threats FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC OPINION Special reports: • Crisis management for banks (ECB) • Macroeconomic imbalance • Stability and Growth Pact • Supervision in the EU insurance sector 
Special report in focus European high-speed rail network: not a reality, but an ineffective patchwork The high-speed rail transport has numerous advantages for passengers. 
It is a convenient, safe, flexible and environmentally sustainable mode of transport. 
Improved links between regions in the EU will also make them more competitive and contribute to European integration by bringing people closer together. 
In this way, we analysed the different connections, travel times and prices for business and private travellers. 
We also examined whether the co-financed investments in high-speed railway lines were cost-effective and effective, well thought out and planned. 
The Court concluded that the European high-speed rail network is merely an inefficient patchwork of individual Member States lines which are insufficiently connected. 
There is no realistic long-term plan for connecting the various parts of the existing EU network; High-speed lines crossing national borders are not one of the priorities of each Member State and the European Commission does not have the powers to force Member States to do so. 
In such circumstances, EU co-financing for high-speed rail will generate low added value. 
However, there is also a good news: The number of passengers using high-speed rail in Europe is growing steadily. For example, there has been an increase of about 15 billion passenger kilometers in 1990 to over 124 billion in 2016. 
Both institutions welcomed the report and agreed with our conclusions. 
We also presented it to numerous national authorities and SAIs, as well as researchers, industry stakeholders and the media. 
Across the EU, the media, in particular EU-oriented media and financial media, dealt extensively with this report, especially in Spain and Germany. 
En - The time: Railway lines: Expansion of fast train routes in the EU too expensive and too slow IT - La Repubblica: Alta velocitŕ nell'Ue, la Corte dei Conti europea boccia la rete UK - Financial Times: Bloc criticised over high-speed rail strategy ES - El cinco días: Los auditores de la UE critican la incoherencia de los trazados del AVE 
Special report in focus The Facility for Refugees in Turkey: While support is helpful, optimal use of funds can only be achieved with improvements Turkey has welcomed with almost 4 million people as many refugees as no other country in the world. 
About 3.5 million of these refugees are Syrians, most of whom live outside refugee camps. 
The support under the Facility for Refugees in Turkey, endowed with a total of EUR 6 billion by the EU and its Member States, covers humanitarian and non-humanitarian activities for refugees and host communities. 
As part of the political agreement, Turkey was required to end irregular migration from Turkey to the EU. 
Humanitarian projects have been able to meet the basic needs of refugees, but in some cases the expected optimal use of funds or the Facility's objective of ensuring effective coordination of this support has not been achieved. 
The audited humanitarian projects provided helpful support for the refugees. 
An example: The social safety net for emergencies helped 1.3 million refugees with cash assistance. 
However, half of the projects have not yet achieved the expected effects - a lasting positive impact that can be maintained without further financial support - and for nine out of ten projects the duration had to be extended. 
The timely implementation of projects managed by NGOs has been hampered primarily by the difficult working environment. 
tracking. This was due to the Turkish authorities' refusal to grant access to the data of the eligible beneficiaries of the two cash aid projects in our sample, totalling EUR 1.1 billion. 
We presented our report at a joint meeting attended by the Committee on Development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, and subsequently also the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. 
He was also presented to the Council of the EU Council Working Party on Enlargement and Accession Countries as well as to the press. 
Particularly in Germany, this report has attracted a great deal of media interest, but also in Denmark, Austria, the Benelux countries and the Mediterranean countries, as well as in the EU-oriented media. 
25 EN - The mirror: Court of Auditors criticises shortcomings in EU refugee assistance FR - EurActiv: La Cour des comptes plutôt satisfaite de l'aide aux réfugiés en Turquie ES - Euronews: Turquía debe rendir cuentas por la gestión de los refugiados UK - EU Observer: EU unable to fully trace EUR 1 bn spent on refugees in Turkey 
Annual Reports Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2017 signed accounts, full audit opinion on revenue, limited opinion on expenditure Each year we examine the revenue and expenditure of the EU budget and examine whether the annual accounts are reliable and that revenue and expenditure transactions are in line with financial rules at EU and Member State level. 
In addition, we specifically assess all important areas of the EU budget, based on the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020, and provide information on budgetary and financial management as well as performance information. 
Furthermore, we analyse why errors have occurred, make recommendations on possible improvements and examine whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been put into practice. 
As part of our most recent annual report on the EU budget for the financial year 2017, our auditors examined a sample of around 700 payments totalling EUR 100 billion to beneficiaries made in the various areas of expenditure of the EU budget. 
This means that we analysed around 700 different cases where EU funding had been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in the EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries. 
26 Key data EU expenditure 2017 137.4 billion euro Verified amount 100.2 billion euro (703 payment transactions) Accounting According to actual circumstances - Assurance confirms receipts Legally and properly - unrestricted opinion Expenses Other than legal and regular - limited (and no failed) audit opinion 
This extensive work forms the basis for our Statement of Assurance, which we must submit to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with our mandate set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 
As in previous years, the Court delivered a full audit opinion on the reliability of the EU's accounts and revenues. 
In addition, for the second year in a row, we were able to present a limited (and no failed) audit opinion on EU spending. 
A significant part of the audited expenditure in 2017 did not show a material error rate. 
In addition, the estimated error rate for payments in 2017 was 2.4 %, after remaining 3.1 % in 2016 and 3.8 % in 2015. 
The publication of our annual report is at the beginning of the discharge procedure carried out by the European Parliament, in which the EU legislative and budgetary authority, on a recommendation from the Council, decides whether the management of the EU budget by the Commission and other bodies has been satisfactory. 
We presented our annual report to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament on 4 October at the same time as its publication and subsequently also to the plenary of the European Parliament and the ECOFIN Council, as well as to the national parliaments and authorities of 14 Member States. 
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Mr Lazarou, Member of the Court, at the presentation of our annual report at the plenary session of the European Parliament in November 2018 in Strasbourg 28 
For cohesion expenditure, we assessed the control and reliability framework 2014-2020 and the reliability of the information provided by the Commission to demonstrate regularity. 
This was a first step on the way to the potential design of the Statement of Assurance as a testat-oriented audit. 
With the changed approach and the transition to a testat-oriented audit, we generally intend to take greater account of the different levels of internal control at the European Commission and the Member States' authorities responsible for managing EU spending. 
This makes it clearer where weaknesses remain in both the European Commission and the Member States, allowing us to contribute to the promotion of accountability and further improvement of EU financial management. 
This approach shall only apply if the relevant conditions laid down in the international audit principles are complied with. 29 
Annual Report on the European Development Funds Failed opinion on payments Under the European Development Funds (EDF), the European Union provides support for development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and territories. 
The EDFs are financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank. 
Key data on our EDF audit opinions are set out below. 
Special annual reports Agencies and other bodies Unrestricted audit opinion forallEU agencies except oneTheEU agencies are based throughout Europe and employ around 11 000 staff. 
The 2017 budget of all agencies together, with the exception of the Single Resolution Board (SRB), amounted to 3.5 billion euro; this corresponds to approximately 2.7 % of the EU'soverall budget. 
The SRB's 2017 budget, financed by contributions from credit institutions, amounted to 6.6 billion euros. 
The European MedicinesAgency (EMA) in London, which will be moved to Amsterdam New approach: a single report on all 41 EUagencies In 2018, we decided to present the results of our audit of the accounts in EUagencies in a more user-friendly format. 
While we continued to submit individual statements of assurance for each agency, we published a single annual report on all agencies, including a summary document entitled "Short Information on the Audit ofEU Agencies". 
As every year, we have also published our annual reports on the European Schools and contingent liabilities of the SRB, the Commission and the Council. 31 
32 * Following the UK's decision to withdraw from the EU, the Council decided to move EMA and EBA to Amsterdam and Paris respectively in 2019. 
Unrestricted audit opinion for all European Joint Research Undertakings other than a Joint Undertaking are EU public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy. 
The European Commission is the public sector member of the Joint Undertakings and represents the EU. 
Private members include various partners from industry and research. 
One of the main objectives of the Joint Undertakings is to collect contributions from members from the private industry and the research sector; this makes up their added value. 
33 Main conclusions Overall, our audit of the Agencies for the 31st December 2017 end year the positive results from previous years. 
We issued unrestricted audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts for all agencies; O unrestricted audit opinions on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts of all agencies; O unrestricted opinions on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts of all agencies, with the exception of a failed opinion for the European Asylum Support Office, which identified a number of problems. 
Main conclusions o We have signed the accounts of all EU Joint Undertakings for the financial year 2017 and confirmed their reliability. the Electronic Components and Systems for European Leadership Joint Undertaking received a limited audit opinion, as auditors identified problems that in some cases prevented effective internal control. 
Opinions In addition, we also contribute to improving the EU's fiscal governance by publishing opinions on Commission proposals for new or amended legislative acts. 
In the case of acts with significant financial implications, the Court's opinions are required under EU law. 
These are mainly used by the legislative authority - the European Parliament and the Council - in their work. 
Opinions may also be launched at the request of other institutions or at the Court's own initiative. 
In 2018, we published ten opinions - the highest number so far - on different areas of EU governance. 
On the one hand, these concerned mainly the Commission's legislative proposals for the new MFF, such as the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the effectiveness of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and its cooperation with the future European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO), and the linking of EU funding with respect to the rule of law and the protection of whistleblowers. 
Focus - Opinion on CAP reform There is a need for a greener and consistently performance-based CAP that focuses more on accountability When the European Commission published its legislative proposal for the new CAP post-2020, it stressed that environmental and climate objectives would be a very high priority. 
However, in our opinion on CAP reform, we pointed out that many of the policy options proposed differed only marginally from the current CAP regime. 
In particular, most of the budget will still be direct payments to farmers on the basis of the number of hectares owned or used. 
We also noted that this instrument is not the most economical way to support an adequate income and that it does not take into account a large number of environmental concerns. 
Furthermore, the Commission's assessment of the CAP's contribution to the EU's climate objectives seemed unrealistic; for this reason, the Court recommends greener and consistently performance-based plans for the next CAP, which should also focus more on accountability. 34 
In accordance with the procedure we apply in our reports, this opinion has been presented to the European Parliament's committees, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council, the environmental and agricultural stakeholders and the press. 35 
Analysis-based publications: Landscape analyses, topic papers and rapid case reviews (Rapid Case Reviews) Analytical overview of publicly available information and our own work of the Court Landscape Analysis In 2018, we prepared two landscape analyses. 
In the first, the Court dealt with the application of Union law in practice and stated that the Commission's supervisory activities with regard to the application of Union law by Member States should be strengthened. 
In the second landscape analysis, we looked at mobility and transport and valued them as the cornerstones of European integration. 
However, we expressed concerns about the investment lag as the modernisation of the EU transport network is hampered by the decrease in investment in transport infrastructure. 
In 2018, we published a total of six topic papers: five on the Commission's proposals for the future MFF and one on the integration of migrants in the EU. 
The Court's comments on the MFF focused in particular on the proposed procedure for setting the spending priorities for the EU, flexibility of the EU budget, performance orientation and administrative simplification, as well as accountability and auditing arrangements. 
We welcomed the Commission's efforts to modernise the post-2020 EU budget, but at the same time showed several potential risks, identified a number of weaknesses and proposed concrete improvements. 
We pointed out that effective parliamentary scrutiny requires sound accountability arrangements and that the Court should, in principle, be designated as an external auditor for all EU-created bodies. 
In the only rapid analysis we presented in 2018 on cohesion, we found that the refund of VAT (VAT) is error-prone and is not always an optimal use of EU funds. 
We considered that the reimbursement of VAT to public authorities should no longer be possible in the post-2020 period of expenditure co-financed by the EU. 36 
In January 2018, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania, we organised a joint high-level conference on EU financial instruments in Vilnius. 
The event offered high-level experts from EU institutions and Lithuanian institutions, professionals and other public and private stakeholders the opportunity to share their views and ideas. 
In March 2018, the Court hosted a two-day international symposium on the public financing of parliaments in Europe, in order to discuss their autonomy and analyse the budgetary systems of the EU Member States. 
Global Audit Leadership Forum In April 2018, we hosted the fifth session of the Global Audit Leadership Forum, where the presidents and representatives of about twenty Supreme Audit Institutions from around the world met. 
In particular, the practice and limits of performance audit in the political context, as well as the challenges and opportunities in transmitting audit findings in the digital age were discussed. 37 
38 Fifth meeting of the Global Audit Leadership Forum in April 2018, where the Presidents of some twenty Supreme Audit Institutions from all over the world met at the European Court of Auditors Europe Day - EU Open Days In May 2018, we attended the European Day events in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg. 
At the information booths, our auditors were able to gather information about our role and work and to learn first-hand how audits are carried out. 
We will continue to organise Open Days at the European Court of Auditors and participate in public events to get in touch with citizens. 
Symposium on Good Public Administration In September 2018, we participated in a symposium on the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and on public governance entitled "Good Public Administration and Benefits for Citizens - The Role of Parliamentary Control Bodies", organised by the Austrian Court of Auditors, the Secretariat of INTOSAI and the Austrian Public Prosecutor's Office. 
Conference on the application of Union law In September 2018, we organised a conference on the application of Union law to discuss the need for accountability, transparency and audit, followed by our landscape analysis on the application of Union law in practice. 
This event took place at the Committee of the Regions in Brussels. 
Conference on e-commerce and related taxation In October 2018, we organised a conference on e-commerce and the challenges of taxation in the digital age. 
Speakers and panellists discussed the risks of the current tax model for VAT in e-commerce and suggested alternative taxation models aimed at the use of modern technology, such as blockchain. 
Conference of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) In November 2018, we attended the eighth annual conference of EIOPA in Frankfurt. 
The conference brought together more than 400 people from the financial services industry, academia, consumer organisations, the media, international organisations, EU institutions and national authorities. 
The Court presented its audit work on supervision and financial stability in the European insurance sector - the subject of the Special Report on EIOPA in 2018. 39 
COP24 In December 2018, we participated in the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP24) in Katowice. 
We presented our audit work on air quality and its impact on climate change and vice versa, and discussed the challenges of desertification and land degradation in the EU - both issues were addressed in special reports published by us in 2018. 
Janusz Wojciechowski, Member of the Court, during the presentation of our special report on air quality in Katowice School Project Day in December 2018 throughout the year, the Court's staff participated in the school project day organised by the EU institutions. 
17 of our staff attended their secondary schools in seven Member States and explained to pupils about the EU, the role of our institution and the opportunities to study and work with the EU institutions. 40 
Relations with institutional addressees The impact of our work depends on the benefits of our institutional addressees We work closely with the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments, as the impact of our work depends to a great extent on the benefits these institutions draw from our audit results and recommendations. 
European Parliament The number of reports discussed in parliamentary committees sets a record record The members of the Court and the auditors' team are regularly invited to present their findings and recommendations to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other committees of the European Parliament and other bodies. 
During 2018, we presented to Parliament 33 special reports, four opinions and six analysis-based publications. 
In total, we attended 74 meetings with the Committee on Budgetary Control (2017: 60) and 38 meetings with 13 other parliamentary committees and working groups, as well as with political groups in Parliament. 
The joint annual meeting of the Court's representatives with Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control took place in February 2018. 
In April 2018, President Lehne participated in the debate in the plenary of the European Parliament on the 2016 discharge procedure. 
In October 2018, he presented the Court's Annual Report on the 2017 financial year to Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and to the Plenary. 41 
44 presentations were also held for other relevant Council preparatory bodies (2017: 27). 
During the year, we presented a total of 37 special reports, four opinions and three analysis-based publications to the Council (2017: 27). 
In January 2018, during the Bulgarian Presidency, President Lehne met with Bulgarian Deputy Finance Minister to discuss key audit findings on the 2016 discharge procedure. 
In March 2018, President Lehne and Neven Mates, the Court's Special Report on Macroeconomic Imbalances, presented the report to EU finance ministers during the ECOFIN Council. 
Thus, for the first time, a special report was presented to ECOFIN's EU Finance Ministers. 
President Lehne also presented our 2017 annual report at the ECOFIN meeting in November, during the Austrian Presidency. 
Before the meeting, President Lehne met the Austrian Federal Minister for Finance, in his capacity as Chairman of the ECOFIN Council, and the Minister for Public Finances of Romania - this Member State holding the Presidency at the beginning of 2019 - to discuss with them our Annual Report 2017 and the corresponding discharge procedure and to inform them about further relevant activities of the Court. 
First presentation of a special report before ECOFIN 42 
Governments and parliaments of Member States Meeting of the President of the Court with high-level government representatives in five Member States During the year, President Lehne visited many EU Member States - Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Romania - and met there with high-level government representatives. 
These visits have often been combined with participation in an official state event or high-level conference. 
In addition, the ECA Members presented the 2017 Annual Report to the national parliaments and/or other national authorities of 14 Member States. 
In addition, we also took the opportunity to present some of our special reports to the relevant parliamentary committees of national parliaments. 
Delegations from representatives of national parliaments occasionally visit the Court and we continue to explore how our cooperation with national parliaments can be further deepened. 
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Mr George Pufan, Member of the Court, at a meeting with Mr Klaus Iohannis, President of Romania, in October 2018 in Bucharest 43 
Cooperation with EU Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) In active cooperation with the EU SAIs: joint call to address weaknesses in the rules on accountability and audits for EU banking supervision Our cooperation with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States takes place primarily within the framework of the Contact Committee of the EU-ORKB Presidents. 
In October 2018, we actively participated in the annual meeting of the Contact Committee, hosted by the SAI of Croatia under its own chairmanship. 
The discussions focused on interacting with EU citizens and making SAIs available to the public. 
Court President Klaus-Heiner Lehne speaks to the Presidents of the EU-ORKB at the annual meeting of the Contact Committee in Dubrovnik, Croatia, in October 2018 Together with the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the 28 Member States, we appealed to national governments and parliaments as well as the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to address a number of weaknesses in the rules on accountability and audits for EU banking supervision. 
We also participated and participated in the activities of several working bodies of the Contact Committee, including the VAT Working Group, the Financial Policy Audit Network, the Europe 2020 Strategy Review Network and the European Banking Union Task Force, and in other activities in the areas of public sector financial reporting and public procurement audit. 
We also coordinated the preparation of the Contact Committee's first Audit Compendium (Youth Unemployment and Young People's Vocational Inclusion) based on audit reports prepared by 14 EU-ORKBs between 2013 and 2017. 
With the publication of the Examination Compendium, the Contact Committee presents a new product 44 
INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2018, we continued our active participation and participation in the activities of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), in particular in our role as Deputy Chair of the Committee for Technical Standards (since December 2016) and as a member of the Subcommittee for Audit of Accounting and Accounting, the Subcommittee for the Audit of Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Performance Audits. 
We also actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI working bodies, including the peer reviews subcommittee, the Environmental Audit Working Group, the Financial Modernisation and Regulatory Reform Working Group, and the Task Force on Professionalisation of Auditors. 
We also actively participated in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), the European Regional Group of INTOSAI, in particular the Working Group on Environmental Audit, the IT Audit Working Group, the Audit & Ethics Task Force and several workshops and seminars. 
In addition, we support the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo1, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey). This support is primarily provided through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through our promotion of activities coordinated by the OECD. 
In 2018, seven ORKB auditors from the network participated in our internship program. 
We also actively contributed to the meetings and activities of this network. This included dealing with issues such as auditing of accounts and IT audit. 
Our management The College of Members of the Court The term of office of the members of the Court is six years, with reappointment allowed. 
The College shall be composed of one member from each Member State. 
The ECA does not play a role in the appointment and appointment of members. 
In 2018, the Council appointed four new members of the Court: O Eva Lindström (Sweden), Tony Murphy (Ireland) and Hannu Takkula (Finland) on 1 March 2018 and Annemie Turtelboom (Belgium) on 1 May 2018. 
In addition, the Council extended the terms of office of five members in office: O Pietro Russo (Italy), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain), Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) and Joăo Figueiredo (Portugal) until 29 February 2024 and Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria) until 31. December 2024. 
In 2018, the College of Members of the Court is 18 times (2017: 21 times) met. 
46 Meeting of the College of Members of the Court, held in Luxembourg on 28 February 2019 
The role of the president is that of a first among equals (Primus inter pares). 
His responsibilities include the institution's strategy, planning and performance management, communication and media work, legal issues and internal auditing. 
He also represents the Court in all its external relations. 
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected president. 
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the Court, at his speech at the annual meeting of the College of Commissioners and the College of Commissioners in February 2018 in Luxembourg 47 
The President and Members 48 
Audit chambers and committees The members are assigned to one of the five audit chambers of the Court. 
They are under the direction of a doyen or a doyenne elected by the members from among them. 
Each member is responsible for his or her specific duties and is assisted by his/her cabinet. 
The audit work is carried out by professional auditors working for the directorates of the audit chambers. 
As of December 2018, the five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Milionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Neven Mates and Lazaros S. Lazarou. 
Daničle Lamarque was chaired by the Committee on Quality Control, Oscar Herics headed our Ethics Committee and Samo Jereb was our Audit Committee, while Rimantas Šadžius was the member responsible for institutional relations. 
Decisions on further strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President. 
The European Court of Auditors comprises ten directorates for all its fields of work, five of which are the audit chambers, one for audit quality control, another to the President and three to the Secretary-General. 
Secretary General and Director Peter WELCH Director KAMMER 1 Gerhard ROSS Director KAMMER 2 Philippe FROIDURE Director KAMMER 3 Ioanna Metaxopoulou Director KAMMER 4 Mariusz POMIENSKI Director KAMMER 5 Martin WEBER Director SERVICES OF THE PRESIDENT Geoffrey SIMPSON Director of Quality Control Committee Gaile DAGILIENIA Director Translation, Language Services and Publication Zacharias Kolias Director Personnel, Finance and General Services Magdalena CORDERO VALDAVIDA Director Information, Work Environment and Innovation Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary-General 49 
Performance Measurement Our new key performance indicators as part of the 2018-2020 Strategy Since 2008, we have been applying Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform management about the progress achieved towards our goals, to support the decision-making process and to provide our addressees with information about our performance. 
We have not only defined our strategy for 2018-2020, but also adjusted our KPIs for this period. 
Thus, 2018 is the first year in which we can report on these indicators. 
These five KPIs provide a comprehensive overview of how we are organising our work on dissemination, impact and perception. o KPI 1 - Implementation of our recommendations o KPI 2 - Stakeholders feedback on our work o KPI 3 - Our appearances in the European Parliament, Council and national parliaments in the Council and national parliaments) o KPI 4 - Number of special reports (and similar products) published (Number of special reports [and similar products]) o KPI 5 - Our presence in the media 
51 Number of special reports and similar products in 2018 We monitor the number and termination of reports published throughout the year. 
This provides an indication of the accuracy of our planning. 
Of the 47 reports planned for 2018, 44 were published: 35 special reports, six topic papers, two landscape analyses and a quick analysis. 
In addition to the selected audits provided for in our work programme, we issued ten opinions. 
Special reports and similar products 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 44 30 2017 2018 Our appearances in the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments Most of our audit reports are presented to the competent committee of the European Parliament and the Council of the EU. 
In addition, most of the Court's members present our annual reports to the national parliament of their respective Member States. 
In 2018, the Court's representatives spoke to the European Parliament 133 times (2017: 91), 65 times in the Council (2017: 47) and 50 times before national parliaments (2017: 19). 
This represents a significant increase compared to 2017. 
Performances of the Court in 2018: European Parliament, Council and National Parliaments 52 European Parliament 91 Council of the EU 47 133 65 50 National Parliaments 19 2017 2018 Media presence Number of online articles and contributions on social media almost tripled Since 2018, we have a closer contact with the media and non-institutional stakeholders and are much more active in social media. 
We have published 76 press releases in 23 EU languages (2017: 57) and o 20 press briefings held in Brussels (2017: 16), including press briefings for the annual report, including briefings regarding both the sector and the Member States concerned. 
We also received journalists from Brussels and the Member States and offered industry stakeholders, NGOs and think tanks several briefings on selected reports. 
53 visits by journalists from Member States to Luxembourg in November 2018 We follow the media coverage of our work and institution, which can vary significantly depending on the topic and complexity of a report. 
At the same time, we must take into account that external factors can greatly influence the interest of the media in our publications. 
For example, if the date of publication coincides with an important event or political development, the public interest in the subject can increase significantly. 
The total number of media reports, including on social media, has almost tripled: While there were around 15,500 online articles and social media posts in 2017, their number increased to more than 44,000 in 2018. 
Social media posts posted by the Court's official accounts in relation to our publications were displayed around 11 million times in 2018, almost 18 times more than in 2017. 
With regard to media coverage, special reports are clearly our flagship product In terms of communication and media reporting, the special reports have clearly become our flagship product. Twelve of the Court's 15 most successful publications in 2018 were special reports. 
In the year there were more than 11,000 online articles on our special reports, which means that the number has increased by more than twice as compared to 2017. 
By contrast, the total number was 1,500 online articles in 2013 - the year we started following media coverage. 
Compared to 2017, there was an increase of 60 % of the average number of media reports per special report at the same time. 
This means that our presence in the media has increased not only because of a higher number of reports, but also through a greater interest in our publications. 
Media reporting on annual reports, special reports and the ECA in general 54 online articles Social media Total online articles Social media Total online articles Social media Total online articles Social media Totally 6 297 0 10 000 20 000 30 000 40 000 960 207 952 2 425 1 912 4 632 4 762 9 159 1 535 The most impact was achieved in the Special Report on the European High Speed Rail Network - with over 4 400 online articles and contributions in social media 11 682 2041 7752 11198 13 535 2018 for the area of crisis management of the European Central Banks in the area of crisis management for the European Central Banks in the year for the financial crisis in the year. The farm in al lgemei a special year esbe 
The Court has five social media accounts: * This number indicates how many times our posts have been displayed. 
Throughout the year, we have seen an exponential increase in our presence and engagement on social media - especially on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn - which have become an essential part of our communication activities and enable us to engage in direct exchanges with citizens. 
The number of our followers/subscribers and the number of our impressions, which shows how often our posted posts have been displayed, have increased in each case. 
55 followers/subscribers 2018 increase compared to 2017 Number of impressions* 7 674 31 % 3 419 137 10 080 23 % 256 268 4 800 83 % 9 590 234 869 27 % 117 800 1 134 149 % n.v. 
Impact and perception of our work Our reports - purposeful and effective We evaluate the impact and perception of our work on the basis of assessments by addressees. Another evaluation criterion is the follow-up to our recommendations to improve EU financial management. 
At the beginning of 2018, we began to ask our stakeholders (from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, from EU agencies, permanent representations of Member States, Member State public bodies, national SAIs, NGOs, science, the media, etc.) for feedback on the usefulness and likely impact of our reports. 
This feedback concerns selected special reports and analyses, as well as the Court's annual reports, and will be collected through anonymous electronic surveys from all those who have previously received a copy of those reports. 
Through this survey, stakeholders can also provide qualitative feedback on reports and provide general suggestions on the Court's work. 
Overall, 87 % of respondents confirmed the usefulness of our reports for their work and 78 % gave them an impact. 
56 Relevance of reports 15 42 30 12 1 Probable effect of reports 0 % 10 % 20 % 30 % 40 % 50 % 60 % 70 % 80 % 90 % 100 % Very high medium Very low 7 30 41 18 4 
Most of our recommendations have been implemented Since 2018, instead of the European Commission's management declaration, we have been using follow-up by our auditors as the basis for this indicator. 
For 2018, we analysed the recommendations made in our 2014 Special Reports and the Annual Report from the same year. 
This analysis shows that 74 % of the recommendations we made in our 2014 Annual Report and 94 % of the recommendations in our 2014 Special Reports were fully, largely or partially implemented. 
Implementation of the Court's recommendations after year of delivery 57 Implementation of the Court's recommendations made in the 2014 Annual Report 10 % 6 % 10 % 32 % 32 % 10 % Implementation of the Court's recommendations as a result of performance audits in 2014 6 % 19 % 17 % Completely implemented 
At the end of 2018, our staff were 834 officials and temporary staff at the European Court of Auditors. 
The Court's establishment plan included 853 permanent and scheduling posts - including 541 in the audit chambers - including 112 posts in members' cabinets. 
Areas of activity of our employees: Audit services, translation, administration and services of the President 58 audit services 541 Translation Administration Services of the President 135 Total 853 129 48 In addition, 76 contract agents and 15 seconded national experts were employed at the Court at the end of the year. 
The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background. 
With our recruitment policy, we follow the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promote equal opportunities at all levels. 
In 2018, the Court hired 79 employees: 15 officials, 32 temporary agents, 22 contract staff and 10 seconded national experts. 
In addition, we provided 60 university graduates with internships for periods of three to five months. 
Age profile The age profile of the 31st In December 2018 active staff shows that nearly half of our employees are 44 years old or younger. 
30 of the Court's 64 directors and senior managers (47 %) are 55 years old or older. 
Age Profile 59 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 2 % 4 % 5 % 10 % 15 % 25 % 7 % 12 % 16 % 18 % 20 % 23 % 18 % Note: Deviations in the formation of sums are due to rounding. 
Overall, we have achieved a balanced proportion of women and men among our employees; 45 % of our auditors and boards are women. 
60 34 % 66 % 55 % 45 % 62 % 38 % Assistants and Secretaries Auditor and Board of Directors Management 0 % 20 % 40 % 60 % Male 80 % 100 % Female We continue to work to achieve a gender balance at all levels of management. 
In recent years, for example, we have succeeded in increasing the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers, which was still 7 % at the end of 2015, to almost 24 % at the end of 2018. 
Our Equal Opportunities Policy for the period 2018-2020 also addresses issues related to age and disability. 
Managers by nationality and gender 61 
Support for the examination activities Vocational training training: In line with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we strive to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training per year. 
In 2018, we were again above this target with 6.9 training days per examiner. 
We have continued to expand the range of training we offer to employees both inside and outside the scope of the exam and helped auditors obtain various certifications. 
We continued our successful series of presentations held by internal or external experts on developments in the field of audit or other topics relating to the work of our auditors. 
We continued our Performance Recognition Awards program, which allows non-executive employees to participate in specific external training. 
Average number of training days per year 7.0 6.7 6.9 Goal = 2 days 2016 2017 per examiner 4,0 2016 2.3 3.1 2017 2018 Goal = 5 days per non-examiner 62 days 
Successful cooperation with educational institutions We have signed a partnership agreement with the College of Europe (Bruges, Belgium), which provides for cooperation in several areas, including training, traineeships and the drafting of reports. 
In addition, we have entered into cooperation agreements with the European Institute of Public Administration and other organisations that enable our staff to attend training courses organised by these institutions. 
We have continued and expanded our cooperation with the University of Lorraine: Once again, we offered the postgraduate program "Audit of public organisations and policies" and the Master's programme "Management of public organisations". In addition, we have developed a new postgraduate programme called "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit". 
Finally, auditors from other SAIs took part in our internal training courses. Some of them shared their experience in the field of illustrating reports at the Court's annual training day, which involved more than 450 people. 
We made our online performance audit training available to the public and held two interactive seminars with a capacity of more than 150 participants from around the world. 
Translation The Court's Directorate for Translations, Language Services and Publication translated and revised over 251,000 pages in 2018. This represents an increase of more than 18 % compared to 2017. 
This increase also led to a higher outsourcing rate. 
In addition, all our translation teams now use harmonised working methods. 
Translators were increasingly involved in the Court's audit activities by providing linguistic support during audit visits and the preparation of most of the reports. 
This enabled us to create further synergies with our auditors. 
The publication team is now a full part of the Directorate. 
Review the originals for translation and finally for publication, integrated into a single, optimised workflow. 
Information, work environment and innovation Our Directorate for Information, Work Environment and Innovation supports our employees in the effective and efficient use of information technologies by promoting innovation and knowledge management. 
Information Management We have launched a new initiative called tECAway, which gives our employees access to the network on the go. 
This will allow them to access the Court's digital resources and services on all devices, anywhere and at any time. 
The Court has created a new harmonised document management system and introduced multifunctional devices for printing, photocopying and scanning. 
We expect these devices to have a beneficial impact on information security and paper consumption. 
We have alsointroduced a new cybersecurity governance model and are currently working on implementing the cybersecurity plan. 
In all IT projects and ITsolutions, the maintenance of business operations has been duly taken into account. This ensured the unrestricted availability of critical systems. 
Innovation We have also set up the ECAlab, an interdisciplinary innovation laboratory whose focus is on the digitisation of the test area through the use of data and technology use. 
ECAlab tests the use of technologies such as artificial intelligence, natural language processing (Natural Language Processing) and text mining in real exam tasks. 
This support has already benefited from several tasks and publications. 
In addition, we carried out a pilot project on the application of blockchaintechnologiesfor the notarial certification of audit evidence and publications. 
The resulting prototype, the ECA registry, was selected by the European BlockchainPartnership, set up by EUMember Statesand the Commission, as part of the Europeanblockchaininfrastructure for services to be developed from 2019 onwards. 
Knowledge Management In July 2018, our first annual summer course in public financial control was organised jointly with the University of Pisa and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). 
45 people from SAIs, EU institutions and universities took part in the summer course focusing on data analysis for examinations. 
We also held a conference on blockchain where we explored the opportunities offered by this technology and its practical applications for controlling EU spending. 
This conference was primarily aimed at participants from other EU institutions. 
Buildings The courtyard currently has three buildings ("K1", "K2" and "K3") which form a single integrated technical unit. 
In addition, the Court rents office space for its Centre for Data Recovery in Luxembourg. 
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees; they also have meeting rooms, a conference room with interpreting booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and a basic kitchen area. 
A detailed study on this project will be carried out in 2019; work is expected to start at the end of this year. 
As approved by the European Parliament and Council in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds of the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation. 
K3 The K3 building was opened in 2012. 
Based on the world's leading Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), the K3 building was rated as "very good". 
A new security control centre and an external accreditation and access control centre for employees and visitors were put into operation in September 2018. 
The ECA main building "K1" and the new Security Control Centre at Rue Alcide De Gasperi, Luxembourg Environmental Management As an institution of the European Union, it is our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities. 
We are therefore striving to continuously reduce the environmental impact of the Court. 
We now successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015. 
In the course of our goal of systematically reducing our CO2 emissions, we regularly examine the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities. 
Our total greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 amounted to 10 451 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), which represents a 3 % reduction compared to 2016. 
2018 was the fourth consecutive year for which the Court examined its carbon footprint. 
67 ECA Financial Information The Court is financed from the general budget of the European Union, with its budget falling within the area of administrative expenditure. 
In 2018, the Court's budget amounted to around 146 million euro. 
This represents less than 0.1 % of the EU's total expenditure, or around 1.5 % of the EU's total administrative expenditure. 
The share of the 2018 budget used amounted to 96 %. 
Implementation of the 2018 budget 68 HAUSHALTSYHR 2018 Final appropriation-commitments Use of appropriations in % payment Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 - Members of the institution 12 265 11 245 92 % 11 186 12 - Officials and temporary staff 105 044 102 543 98 % 102 528 14 - Other staff and external services 6 335 5 914 93 % 5 825 162 - Missions 3 450 3 050 88 % 2 537 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff 2 883 96 % 2 221 Subtotal Title 1 130 084 125 635 97 % 124 297 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure 20 - Building 2 956 2 945 99 % 1 822 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 8 708 8 707 99 % 4 714 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and related costs 1 129 1 066 94 % 749 23 - Current material expenditure for operations 557 353 63 % 241 25 - Meetings and conferences 708 581 82 % 332 27 - Information and publications 1 874 1 197 64 % 922 Subtotal Title 2 15 932 14 849 93 % 8 780 European Court of Auditors 146 016 140 484 % 133 077 
Budget 2019 The 2019 budget shows an increase of 0.6 % compared to 2018. 
69 HOUSHALT 2019 2018 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 - Members of the institution 11 474 12 515 12 - Officials and temporary staff 107 666 106 600 14 - Other staff and external services 6 381 5 745 162 - Missions 3 450 3 450 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 3 098 2 990 Subtotal Title 1 132 069 131 300 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure 20 - Building 2 984 2 930 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 7 605 7 492 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and related costs 998 1 157 23 - Current operating expenditure 548 555 25 - Meetings and conferences 700 706 27 - Information and publications 1 986 1 876 Subtotal Title 2 14 821 14 716 European Court of Auditors 146 890 146 016 
Internal and external audit Internal Audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues. 
It provides independent and objective assurance and provides advisory services designed to increase and improve the Court's activities. 
It shall also report to the Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and an external expert. 
The Committee regularly monitors progress on the various tasks laid down in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and ensures the independence of the department. 
In 2018, it carried out an audit on the Court's cybersecurity systems and construction work related to its perimeter protection. 
The Service also examined the implementation of the Court's risk management policy and the annual statements made by authorising officers by delegation. 
In addition, it monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations to ensure that the agreed action plans had taken shape. 
In 2018, the department's audits did not reveal any shortcomings which, due to their nature or scale, would seriously jeopardise the reliability of the internal control systems as a whole; these control systems had been introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations. 
We report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit work. 
External control Our annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor. 
This is an important aspect in the Court's approach to applying to ourselves the same principles of transparency and accountability as for the bodies we audit. 
The report of the auditor - PricewaterhouseCoopers Sŕrl. - the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2017 were published on 17 May 2018. 70 
Audit opinions of the independent auditor - financial year 2017 71 To the Court's annual accounts: According to our assessment, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the assets and financial position of the European Court of Auditors (hereafter "Court") at 31. December 2017 and the results of its operations, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ended that reference date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002. 
L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1) and its ex post amendments, hereinafter referred to as the 'Financial Regulation', and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules of application of the Financial Regulation and its subsequent amendments.' 
On the use of resources and the Court's control procedures: "In our work steps described in this report, we have not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria, the resources allocated to the Court were not used for the intended purposes and the control procedures put in place do not provide the requisite assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 
Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is also subject to the discharge procedure. 
In April 2018, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2016. 
As every year, we have carefully analysed the issues raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility, took appropriate action and reported in detail to the European Parliament on our follow-up. 
On 26 March 2019, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge for the financial year 2017. 
This means that our annual accounts for 2017 have been finalised. 
Peer Reviews Peer Reviews mean independent and transparent expert assessments of the capabilities of a particular SAI carried out by other SAIs. 
Each SAI participating in the peer review will continue to respect the independence of the other SAIs during its implementation. 
In 2018, we asked the SAIs of Estonia (leading SAIs), Denmark, the Netherlands and the United States of America to assess whether the Court is on its way to achieving its strategic objectives at the mid-term of the 2018-2020 period and whether it is likely that the measures we have undertaken to implement the strategy will achieve the desired impact. 
The peer review report is expected to be published in early 2019. 
At the same time, together with the SAIs of Poland and the United Kingdom, we started preparing the SAI's peer review. 
The main objective of this expert assessment will be to assess whether the SAI's audit approach is in line with international standards. 
We also commissioned an external and independent review of the Court's ethical framework during the year. 
This peer review is carried out by the auditors of Croatia and Poland. 
The audit report is expected to be available in 2019. 72 
The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, o that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable assurance that o the funds allocated to the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, o the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of allegations of fraud or suspicion of fraud, o are proportionate to the costs and benefits of the checks. 
Done at Luxembourg, 28 March 2019 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 73 
Annex - Publications in 2018: Special Reports, Annual Reports, Opinions and Analysis-Based Products Special Reports o Special Report No 01/2018: Joint assistance to support projects in European regions (JASPERS) - Time for a better orientation o Special Report 02/2018: The efficiency of the ECB's management in the field of crisis management for banks o Special Report No 03/2018: Examination of the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP) o Special Report No 04/2018: EU assistance to Myanmar/Burma o Special Report No 05/2018: Renewable energy for sustainable rural development: significant but largely untapped synergy potential o Special Report No 06/2018: Free movement of workers - the fundamental freedom is guaranteed, but a better targeting of EU funds would promote the mobility of workers o Special Report No 07/2018: EU pre-accession assistance to Turkey: so far only limited results o Special Report No 08/2018: EU support for productive investments in enterprises - more attention is needed on durability o Special Report No 09/2018: Public-private partnerships in the EU: Widespread deficits and limited benefits o Special Report No 10/2018: Basic payment scheme for farmers - implementation on the right track but with limited impact in terms of simplification, targeting and adjustment of aid levels o Special Report No 11/2018: New options for financing rural development projects: simpler but not result-oriented 74 
75 o Special Report No 27/2018: The Facility for Refugees in Turkey: Support is helpful, but optimal use of funds can only be achieved with improvements o Special Report No 28/2018: Most of the simplification measures under Horizon 2020 have made life easier for beneficiaries, but further improvements are possible o Special Report No 29/2018: EIOPA has made a significant contribution to the supervision and stability of the insurance sector, but there are still significant challenges to be tackled o Special Report No 30/2018: EU passenger rights are comprehensive, but their enforcement remains difficult for passengers o Special Report No 31/2018: Animal welfare in the EU: Closing the gap between ambitious objectives and practical implementation o Special Report No 32/2018: The EU Emergency Trust Fund for Africa: a flexible but not sufficiently focused instrument o Special Report No 33/2018: Combating desertification in the EU: an increasing threat, which requires increased action o Special Report No 34/2018: Office space of the EU institutions - some good management procedures, but also various weaknesses o Special Report No 35/2018: Transparency of EU funds used by NGOs: further efforts require annual reports and special annual reports o Annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017. o Annual report on the activities under the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2017 o Annual Report on the 41 EU agencies for the financial year 2017 o Summary of the results of the Court's annual audit 2017 on the eighth European Joint Research Undertakings o Report on the annual accounts of the European Schools o Report on all contingent liabilities resulting from the fact that the Single Resolution Board, the Council and the Commission carry out their tasks under Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 for the financial year 2017 76 
Copyright notice (c) European Union, 2019. 
Reproduction is permitted with reference to the source. 
Permission to use or reproduce the following images must be obtained directly from copyright holders: P. 30, (c) Croix-Rouge française (French Red Cross). 
P. 31, (c) European Medicines Agency (European Medicines Agency) The reproduction of the following images, stating the copyright owner, the source and the names of the photographers or architects, is permitted: Pp. 1, 5, 12, 13, 14, 24, 28, 38, 40, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, 53, (c) EU/European Court of Auditors p. 9, (c) EU/European Court of Auditors, Journal p. 20, from left to right, top to bottom: (c) EU/European Parliament (c) EU, 2005/Audiovisual Service of the European Commission/Alain Schroeder (c) EU, 2010/Carlos Juan (c) EU, 2008/European Parliament (c) EU, 2013/AFP/Ronny Hartmann (c) EU, 2016/Yasin Akgul (c) EU, 2017/Mauro Bottaro (c) EU, 2017/Frank Molter (c) EU, 2017/Mauro Bottaro S. 22, (c) EU, 2008/European Parliament p. 23, (c) EU/Eurostat - GISCO, 02/2018, source data: (c) EuroGeographics (c) DG MOVE p. 25, (c) EU/Eurostat - GISCO, 03/2019, administrative limits: (c) EuroGeographics (c) UN-FAO (c)Geonames S. 35, (c) EU, 2008/Laurent Chamussy S. 66 and 67, (c) EU/European Court of Auditors, architects of the buildings: Paul Noël (1988) and Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013). 
The EU CONTACT Visit In the European Union there are hundreds of "Europe Direct" information offices. 
Contact Europe Direct via the toll-free phone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers charge fees), - via the standard phone number: + 32 22999696 or - by e-mail via: http://europa.eu/contact INFORMATION About the EU On the Internet on the Europa portal you will find information about the European Union in all official languages: http://europa.eu EU publications From the EU Bookshop you can - partly free - download or order EU publications: http://publications.europa.eu/eubookshop 
If you would like several copies of a free publication, please contact Europe Direct or the Information Office in your area (see http://europa.eu/contact). 
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1951 in all official languages, can be found in EUR-Lex at http://eur-lex.europa.eu EU Open Data Portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp) provides EU datasets. 
ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 QJ-AA-19-001-EN-C 
De Our activities in 2019 Annual activity report of the European Court of Auditors 
Luxembourg: Office of Publications of the European Union, 2020 Print ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-4585-2 HTML ISBN978-92-847-4572-2 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN2315-3903 doi:10.2865/6146 doi:10.2865/105562 doi:10.2865/263527 QJ-AA-20-001-EN-C QJ-AA-20-001-EN-N QJ-AA-20-001-EN-Q 
Our activities in 2019 Annual activity report of the European Court of Auditors 
2 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors in January 2020. 
Content Preface of the President 6 2019 at a glance 7 Our activities 9 Strategy 9 Auditing the efficiency and regularity of EU actions 10 Work programme 11 On-site audit work 12 Audit reports, analyses and opinions 15 Cross-cutting issues 32 Institutional relations 34 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKB) 39 Our management 43 Members 43 Audit chambers and committees 45 Performance measurement 47 Our staff 54 Staff allocation 54 Staff recruitment 54 Age profile 55 Equal opportunities 55 3 
4 Support for audit activities 57 Professional training 57 Translation 59 Information technology, work environment and innovation 59 Buildings 61 Further strengthening of our security measures 63 Environmental management 64 Court's accountability 65 Financial information 65 Internal and external audit 67 Statement of the authorising officer by delegation 70 
European Court of Auditors 5 Who we are the external auditor of the European Union; O established in 1975 by the Treaty of Brussels; Commencement of office in October 1977; full-fledged EU institution since the 1993 Maastricht Treaty; O Headquarters in Luxembourg; O one member per EU Member State, appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament; approximately 900 employees of all EU nationalities. 
Our role o We ensure that the EU ensures proper accounting, correctly implements its financial rules and achieves its objectives and programmes through its policies and programmes and ensures optimal use of funds. o We contribute to improving the financial management of the EU and promoting accountability and transparency. o We warn about risks, provide assurance, point to weaknesses and achievements and provide guidance to Union policymakers and legislators. o We present our comments and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council, national governments and parliaments and the general public. Foreword of the President Dear reader, dear reader! 
The year 2019 was associated with a number of changes for the Union: Elections to the European Parliament took place and a new European Commission took office. 
The strategic priorities have been redefined and key action packages such as the European Green Deal or the Digital Future of Europe (early 2020) have been launched. 
Towards the end of the year it became clear that we would now be a Union of 27 Member States. 
At the same time, the EU is at a significant crossroads in terms of its finances. 
We are about to conclude the negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework, the outcome of which will be decisive for the Union's financing capacity over the next seven years. 
All EU institutions now need to build on past efforts to further improve the Union's financial management and ensure that the EU delivers results. 
As an external auditor, we provide an impartial assessment of Union policies and programmes and the quality of EU financial management within and outside the Union. 
We examine whether EU spending complies with the rules and whether the Union's policies and programmes ensure optimal use of funds. 
This activity report provides an overview of our work in 2019, in which we published a large number of highly up-to-date special reports, analyses and opinions. 
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances. 
We hope that this information is useful to you. 
We publish our Annual Activity Report this year at a time when public health is facing an unprecedented challenge in the EU and its Member States due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In line with the health and safety instructions of the Luxembourg Government, our institution has responded quickly to this situation. 
I would like to thank all colleagues for their good work and willingness to adapt flexibly to the current situation. 
We need to stand together now and make every effort to continue to fulfil our role as an external auditor of the EU in these difficult times. 
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President 6 
7 2019 at a glance 
8 Our activities Strategy In order to continue to help shape developments in the field of public financial control, we rely on multi-annual strategies to make long-term decisions for our audit work and to drive forward organisational change initiatives with a view to continuous improvement. 
At the end of 2019, we had completed the second year of our current strategy for 2018-2020. 
During this three-year period, we have set ourselves the following strategic objectives: Improving the added value of the Statement of Assurance; greater focus on the performance aspects of EU action; Conveying clear statements for our addressees. 
In order to implement our strategy in practice, we have agreed on an action plan covering these objectives. 
Over the past two years, we have made good progress in implementing our strategic goals. 
In the context of all targeted areas, a number of initiatives and projects have been launched, which sometimes go beyond the objectives of the Action Plan, in particular: O a pilot phase of the testat-oriented audit approach for the preparation of the Statement of Assurance, which has led to useful findings; O a significant increase in the number of performance audits and analytical products, as well as a more diverse range of topics covering both EU spending and regulatory measures; O better contact with the European Parliament and greater visibility on traditional and social media. 
During the year, a group of four Supreme Audit Institutions (Estonia, Netherlands, Denmark and United States) conducted a peer review of our strategy. 
Our peers' report was published in March 2020, just in time to provide valuable impetus for our next strategy from 2021. 
Good progress in the implementation of our strategy 9 
Performance audits, audits of accounting and compliance audits Our performance audits consider the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes. 
The focus will be on issues that reflect relevant issues for the EU, such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, migration and global development challenges, Single Market and Banking Union, and ensuring the accountability and profitability of the European Union. 
These audits are designed to help the EU achieve its policy objectives better. 
Our audits of the accounts and our compliance audits result in our statement on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. 
We can also carry out selected compliance audits to examine the financial management and financial management of the Union or to assess whether the management and control systems set up for the collection and use of EU funds comply with the applicable EU and national rules. 
Our audits are in line with internationally recognised public sector audit principles. 10 
In 2019, we continued to embed the strategic foresight in our audit work in order to better address the key future challenges for the EU through a forward-looking approach. 
To this end, we have set up an Advisory Committee on Strategy and Foresight. 
One of the current tasks of this Committee, composed of five members, is to monitor the preparation of the post-2020 strategy. 
Audit priorities with regard to topics relevant to the future of the EU Our work programme was published in October 2019. We present in detail our audit priorities for the coming years and the 41 reports and analyses planned to be published in 2020. 
With our 2020 and beyond audits, we will continue to provide Union citizens and policy makers with independent reports on issues relevant to the future of the EU. 
We prepare the work programme for our audits in an independent way, but not in complete isolation from our environment. 
It is therefore of utmost importance for us to work with our institutional stakeholders, in particular the European Parliament. 
As usual, at the beginning of 2019, we asked all parliamentary committees to propose possible audit topics for our work programme. 11 
The majority of our examination work takes place in our premises in Luxembourg. 
Our auditors also carry out numerous audit visits to the European Commission - our main audit body; this also applies to the other EU institutions, EU agencies and bodies, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, EU delegations to third countries and international organisations. 
In addition, we carry out on-the-spot audits within and outside the EU with beneficiaries of EU funds. 
Through these audits, we can trace the audit trail and obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes, as well as the collection or disbursement of EU funds, and also from the beneficiaries of such funds. 
In line with the target set out in the EU Financial Regulation, we strive to complete our selected audits within 13 months. 12 
3 605 days of on-the-spot audit work - inside and outside the EU Our audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the duration of an audit visit can be a few days, but also several weeks. 
Within the EU, our on-the-spot audits are generally coordinated together with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States concerned. 
The frequency and intensity of our audit work in each Member State and beneficiary country depends on the nature of the audits we carry out. 
In 2019, our auditors spent 3,605 days (2018: 3 671 days) with on-the-spot checks - in the Member States and outside the EU. 
In addition, our auditors spent 2 504 days (2018: 2 723 days) at the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg as well as decentralised agencies and bodies across the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations or the OECD, and audit firms. 
To interact with our audited bodies, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies, such as secure exchange of data and documents. 14 
Audit reports, analyses and opinions Our audit reports, analyses and opinions form an important link in the EU accountability chain. 
They help the European Parliament and the Council to monitor and verify whether the EU is achieving its political objectives and to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's budgetary management accountable, in particular in the context of the annual discharge procedure. 
In line with our strategy for 2018-2020, we have focused more on assessing the performance of EU action in recent years. 
In 2019, we published 36 special reports and analyses addressing many of the challenges the Union faces in the various EU spending areas, such as food safety, renewable energy, e-commerce, border controls, fiscal governance and ethical frameworks in selected EU institutions, to name a few. 15 
16 In our special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved in an effective and economic way, and whether EU action has created added value - i.e. whether they have achieved more than would be possible by action at national level alone. 
We also make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or achieving the policy objectives more effectively. 
Our analyses - often from a cross-sectional perspective and based on previous audits or other publicly available information - are intended to provide introductory descriptions and analytical considerations. 
In addition, they can serve us to present our analysis of areas or issues that have not yet undergone an examination, or to compile facts on specific topics or problems. 
Unlike audits, they neither address evaluation questions nor provide reliability. 
17 Sustainable use of natural resources Analysis No. 01/2019: The EU's response to the "diesel scandal" In 2015 there were differences between the test bench and the exhaust emissions achieved on the road for diesel engines. 
Studies showed that so-called "default devices" were used, which caused lower emissions in official tests than in normal driving. 
The type-approval authorities of some Member States responded to the emissions scandal by re-testing diesel cars. 
These tests showed that emissions from road emissions for almost all light diesel commercial vehicles in the Euro 5 and Euro 6 emission classes significantly exceeded the permitted NOx limits, in some cases more than 10 times. 
We considered the measures taken by both the EU and the Member States in response to the "diesel scandal". 
We also included the changes made after September 2015 on the system for measuring exhaust emissions. 
We noted that numerous legal changes to the EU system of vehicle type approvals and emission tests were adopted expeditiously. 
The Commission is now empowered to review the work of the national type-approval authorities. It may also have vehicles tested and type-approvals revoked or suspended. 
Affected third parties can now carry out emission tests. 
The Commission also launched infringement proceedings against certain Member States. 
We also noted that in several Member States there has been an increased readiness to restrict motor vehicle traffic in order to improve air quality. In addition, low-emission zones have been created in several European cities where car traffic is restricted or prohibited. 
We presented our results in the form of an analysis as the changes made to the legislation will not have any measurable effects in the near future. 
Our analyses do not contain any recommendations. 
18 Investments for Cohesion, Growth and Inclusion Special Report No 08/2019: Wind and solar energy for power generation: in order to achieve the EU targets, significant efforts are needed to generate electricity either from non-renewable sources such as fossil fuels, non-recyclable waste and nuclear fuels in conventional reactors, or from renewable energy sources such as hydropower, wind and solar energy, biomass, etc. 
Renewable energy also serves the production of heating and cooling as well as the production of fuels for the transport sector. 
Currently, 79 % of the EU's total greenhouse gas emissions are due to the use of fossil fuels for energy production. 
A higher share of renewable energy in electricity generation will contribute to achieving the EU's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
Member States shall determine how best to use their energy resources and how they structure their energy supply. 
The EU can support Member States' actions by providing additional funding for investments in renewable energy projects. 
We assessed the progress made by the EU and Member States towards the renewable energy share targets in order to meet the EU's overall 20 % target by 2020 and 32 % by 2030. 
In Germany, Greece, Spain and Poland, we examined on the ground whether the promotion of electricity generation from wind energy and photovoltaics was effective. 
We found that significant progress had been made with regard to the share of renewable energy in the energy mix from 2005 onwards, but this trend slowed down after 2014. 
The share of renewable energy in electricity generation in the EU has increased from around 15 % (in 2015) to just under 31 % (in 2017), doubling. 
Wind and solar energy were the technologies that made the biggest contribution to this increase. 
However, reaching the targets will be a major challenge for around half of the Member States. 
We recommended that the Commission encourage the Member States to support further development - by conducting auctions to allocate additional capacity in the field of renewable energies, promoting greater participation of citizens, simplifying administrative procedures and eliminating inadequacies in networks. 
In addition, we recommended that the Commission review the legal requirements for Member States in order to improve the timeliness of statistical data. 
19 External Policies, Security and Justice Special Report No 24/2019: Asylum, relocation and return of migrants: In 2015, the European Union experienced unprecedented influx of migrants, followed by an increase in asylum applications. 
In recent years, immigration numbers have fallen back to pre-crisis levels. 
We conducted interviews with staff at the European Commission, the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (commonly referred to as Frontex). 
Audit visits were carried out to national authorities, international organisations and non-governmental organisations carrying out EU-funded projects. In addition, 20 EU support measures in Greece and Italy have undergone an investigation. 
Both Member States are particularly affected by these migratory flows. 
We assessed whether the objectives of EU-funded support were achieved and whether asylum and return procedures were carried out effectively and swiftly. 
We also examined whether the targets and objectives of the temporary emergency resettlement schemes were achieved. 
We found that the rates of registration and fingerprinting in the hotspots had improved significantly. 
Nevertheless, very many migrants continue to move to other EU Member States and apply for asylum there without their fingerprints being stored in the Eurodac database. 
In both Member States, the implementation of asylum procedures continues to be characterised by long processing times and bottlenecks. 
Indeed, a high proportion of applicants were relocated (80 % in Greece and 89 % in Italy). 
Nevertheless, the relocation process in the countries receiving migrants has not been monitored by the Commission since February 2018. 
As in other EU countries, return rates from Greece and Italy are low. 
We recommended that the next Commission should take appropriate measures to improve the management of emergency aid. 
In addition, the Commission should use past experience in developing future voluntary relocation mechanisms. 
Finally, EASO support for asylum procedures should be improved and Frontex's support for return operations should be adapted. 
20 Market regulation and competitive economy Special Report No 10/2019: EU-wide stress tests for banks: the EU-wide banking stress test aims to assess the potential impact that a common shock could have on the financial situation and the viability of large European banks. 
It is the task of the European Banking Authority (EBA), in cooperation with the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB), to initiate and coordinate the implementation of Union-wide banking stress tests. 
Stress tests have been carried out in the EU since 2011, with all of them following the bottom-up approach. The banks provided the results of the shock scenario on the basis of the methodology approved by the EBA. 
We assessed the implementation of the EU-wide banking stress test under the mandate given to EBA. 
We found that at the beginning of the procedure, EBA did not specify the risks or severity it considered relevant to the stress test procedure. 
In turn, the ESRB, which developed the stress scenario, received substantial input from the ECB, as well as from the national central banks and authorities. 
As a result, the EBA lacked control over key stages of the procedure. 
In the United States, regulators rely on a top-down approach, giving them a much greater level of control over the results achieved by banks. 
Conversely, the role of EBA in the EU is limited to the initiation of stress tests, the provision of the methodology and the broad coordination of stress tests. 
The EBA's stress test assessed the vulnerability of the system and banks to an economic downturn rather than a severe financial shock affecting the system. 
Although EBA pursued the objective of broad coverage, certain risky banks were excluded from the stress test. 
EBA's bottom-up approach resulted in limited reliability and comparability of the results achieved by banks. 
We recommended that EBA strengthen its control over the stress test procedure and develop a top-down approach to complement the current bottom-up approach. 
In order to fulfil their purpose to assess resilience to adverse market developments, future stress tests should also take due account of risks arising within the EU financial system, ensure a minimum level of stress and provide clear statements about banks' resilience. 
Finally, the selection of banks for the stress test should be done not only by size, but also by risk. 
21 Financing and management of the Union Special Report No 14/2019: Your opinion counts! 
While the Commission's public consultations involve citizens, there is a lack of outreach The aim of "better regulation" is to ensure that policy decisions are prepared openly and transparently, based on the best available facts, and supported by citizens and other stakeholders, such as civil society organisations and representative associations that are fully involved. 
The Commission is obliged to consult citizens and representative associations in all areas of Union action. 
The Better Regulation Guidelines define stakeholder consultation and also rank citizens as 'stakeholders'. 
Stakeholder consultations, in particular public consultations, gather information and opinions from citizens and other stakeholders when the Commission prepares a policy initiative or evaluates ongoing interventions. 
The Commission conducts on average more than 100 public consultations per year. 
We assessed whether the Commission's public consultations have effectively contributed to reaching citizens and stakeholders and making use of their contributions. 
We examined the design of the Commission's framework, the way in which the Commission prepared and conducted a selection of public consultations, and how it provided information on the consultation activities and used the consultation work. 
We reviewed a sample of 26 Commission public consultations conducted by five DGs over the period 2016-2018 and conducted an opinion poll to determine how satisfied the participants were actually in public consultations. 
We noted that the Commission's public consultation framework has a high standard. 
In addition, the Commission's overall sample of public consultations recorded a positive record and their perception by the participants was generally satisfactory. 
Shortcomings were identified in public relations and feedback. For example, the full range of communication channels was not always used, clear criteria were missing to justify why a questionnaire was not available in all official EU languages, and some questionnaires were long and complex. 
We recommended that public advertising for consultations should be made to a greater extent and more targeted in order to improve visibility and allow more people to participate. 
We also encouraged the Commission to report better on the follow-up to the public consultation. 
Finally, there is room for improvement in citizen participation when it comes to launching legislative proposals under the European Citizens' Initiative. 
Audit previews provide information on ongoing audit tasks (in the area of performance audit). 
They are based on the preparatory work carried out before the start of an audit and shall serve as a source of information for all those interested in specific policy areas and/or programmes subject to an ongoing audit. 
In 2019, we issued 18 exam previews (2018: 12). 
Annual reports and special annual reports The annual reports mainly contain the results of our Statement of Assurance on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Funds (EDFs). 
The special annual reports contain the results of our annual audit of the accounts of the EU agencies, decentralised bodies and Joint Undertakings as well as the European Schools. 
We also publish a report on the contingent liabilities resulting from the performance of the Single Resolution Board (SRB). 22 
Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2018 Each year we audit the EU's revenue and expenditure to check whether the annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying revenue and expenditure transactions are in line with the relevant legislation at EU and Member State level. 
In addition, we present specific assessments on all key areas of the EU budget, based on the (sub-)headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020. 
Furthermore, we analyse why and where errors have occurred, make recommendations for improvements and examine whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been put into practice. 
Finally, we provide information on budgetary and financial management as well as performance-related information. 
This extensive work forms the basis for our Declaration of Assurance, which we must submit to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with our mandate set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
EU general budget: an unrestricted opinion on the reliability of accounts and revenue; limited opinion on expenditure In 2018, EU expenditure amounted to EUR 156.7 billion; this corresponds to 2.2 % of total government expenditure of EU Member States and 1 % of the Union's gross national income. 
Our auditors examined a sample of 728 payments to beneficiaries made in all expenditure areas of the EU budget from a population of around EUR 120 billion to be audited. 
This means that we assessed various cases where EU funds had been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in the EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries. 
For the financial year 2018, we issued a full audit opinion on the reliability of the EU's accounts and revenues. 
In addition, for the third year in a row, we were able to present a limited audit opinion on EU spending. 23 
Around half of the expenditure audited has no material error rate, as in previous years, we found that the errors in EU expenditure were not comprehensive and that payments were legal and regular, with the exception of high-risk expenditure (mainly expenditure on a reimbursement basis, complex rules). 
24 Overall, with an error rate of 2.6 %, the Commission and the Member States maintained the progress recorded in the two previous years (financial year 2017: 2.4 %; Financial year 2016: 3.1 %. 
We see this as an encouraging sign. 
Mistakes - what does that mean? 
An error or irregular payment is the amount of funds that should not have been paid out of the EU budget because they have not been used in accordance with EU or national rules and therefore do not comply with the objectives pursued by the Council and Parliament with the relevant EU acts or are contrary to specific national rules in the Member States. 
We estimate the error rate using statistical methods, based on quantifiable (i.e. monetaryly measurable) errors that we identified by examining a sample of transactions within the total audited population of expenditure. 
The most error-prone MFF heading: Economic, social and territorial cohesion In the financial year 2018, "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" was the most error-prone MFF (sub)heading, followed by "Natural resources" and "Competitiveness for growth and jobs". 25 
Annual Report on the European Development Funds: an unrestricted opinion on the reliability of accounts and revenue; 26 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are the main EU aid instruments for development cooperation. 
The EDF aims to overcome poverty and promote sustainable development and the integration of African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and territories into the global economy. 
The EDFs are financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB). 
As in previous years, for the financial year 2018, we issued an unrestricted audit opinion on the reliability of the EDF accounts and revenue and a limited opinion on EDF expenditure. 
Specific Annual Reports on EU Agencies and Joint Undertakings The EU Agencies are separate entities with their own legal personality set up to carry out specific technical, scientific and administrative tasks, thus helping to shape and implement the policies of the EU institutions. 
There are 43 agencies in total. 
Joint Undertakings are EU public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy. 
The European Commission is the public sector member of the Joint Undertakings and represents the EU. 
There are eight Joint Undertakings in total. 
27 Note: The United Kingdom resigned from the European Union on 31 January 2020. 
Full audit opinion for all agencies except one; in total, a total of 4.2 billion euro was allocated to all agencies (excluding the SRB) for all agencies (excluding the SRB), 20 % more than in 2017 (3.5 billion). This corresponds to approximately 2.9 % of the EU general budget for 2018 (2017: 2.7 %. 
Overall, our audit of the agencies' accounts for the financial year 2018 confirmed the positive results shown in previous years. 
We issued unrestricted audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts, revenue and payments underlying the agencies' accounts; this does not apply to EASO, which has been granted a limited opinion on the payments. 
We also issued full audit opinions to all Joint Undertakings on the reliability of accounts, revenue and expenditure. 
The publication of our annual reports is at the beginning of the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament, on a recommendation from the Council, decides whether the Commission and other bodies have managed the EU budget satisfactorily. 
In October 2019, we presented our annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the EDFs to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and subsequently also to the plenary of the European Parliament, the Council ("Economic and Financial Affairs") and to the Parliaments and national authorities of 21 Member States. 
28 Other annual reports: contingent liabilities and European Schools We are obliged to report annually on all contingent liabilities incurred by the Single Resolution Board, the Council and the Commission in connection with the performance of their tasks in the field of bank resolution. 
In our 2018 report, we concluded that the Committee has improved the presentation of its accounts, but requires better reporting on contingent liabilities at national level. 
We also publish an annual report on the annual accounts of the European Schools. 
Our auditing of the annual accounts for 2018 revealed a material error rate for one of the 13 European Schools. 
Digitalisation is about leveraging the potential of technologies to provide more and better information for the accountability process. 
The digital transformation is also of great importance for our audit work and our organisation. 
We have set up a five-member Steering Committee for Digitalisation to manage this transition process in the coming years. 
As the first important initiative in the audit area, we launched a pilot trial in 2019 to automate the audit of the accounts of executive agencies. 
In this pilot test, we will simultaneously use traditional and digital instruments. 29 
Opinions Opinions: a way to strengthen the Commission's approach to Better Regulation is the publication of opinions on Commission proposals for new or amended acts. 
If these are legislative proposals with significant financial implications, the Court's opinions are required under EU law. 
In addition, other institutions may ask us to provide opinions on specific issues. 
Our opinions are submitted to the European Parliament and the Council. 
In 2019, we published three comments: on the proposal concerning the European Union Intellectual Property Office, a proposal for the Financial Regulation of the Single Resolution Board (SRB) and the proposal for the financial regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office. 
Our comments on the new MFF at the beginning of 2019 also published our briefing on the ECA's observations on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2021-2027. 
This factsheet focused on the proposed procedure for setting the spending priorities for the EU, flexibility of the EU budget, performance orientation and administrative simplification, as well as accountability and auditing arrangements. 
This analysis was mainly based on several opinions we made in the course of 2018 on the Commission's proposals, but also our recent papers and other reports on EU finances. 
Throughout the year, we have reached a relatively balanced number of publications, with a peak in October when we publish our annual reports. 
31 32 The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) is at the forefront of the fight against fraud affecting the EU's financial interests. 
We have adopted detailed guidelines for our auditors on how to deal with fraud risk. 
We forward any suspicion of fraud or any other illegal activity to the detriment of the financial interests of the EU that arises or is reported to us in our audit work. 
These cases will then be dealt with by OLAF, which decides on possible investigations and, if necessary, cooperates with Member State authorities. 
In 2019, we also signed an administrative arrangement setting out the operational provisions for our cooperation with OLAF, including coordination of training, workshops and staff exchanges. 
10 cases of suspected fraud have been forwarded to OLAF We are the external auditor of the EU. 
Our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud. 
Nevertheless, our auditors regularly identify a number of cases where they suspect fraudulent activity. 
In 2019, we sent 10 suspected fraud cases to OLAF (2018: nine cases), eight of which we encountered in the course of our audits, as well as two cases resulting from third-party evidence. 
Additional information on the nature of these suspected fraud cases and the resulting recoveries, as recommended by OLAF, can be found in our annual report on the general budget of the EU. 
In 2019, we also published two special reports closely related to the fight against fraud in EU spending: Special Report No 01/2019 "Combating fraud in EU spending: Action is needed"and Special Report No 06/2019"Combating fraud in EU cohesion spending: Managing authorities need to strengthen detection, response and coordination". 
33 Finally, we devoted a special edition of the ECA Journal to the fight against fraud and corruption and the protection of the EU's financial interests. 
Focus on sustainability UN Sustainable Development Goals at the heart of our audit work In recent years, where we focused on environmental and climate issues, sustainability issues have been of paramount importance. 
In 2019, our work in the field of sustainability was complemented by the analysis of sustainability reporting. 
This analysis provided an overview of how the EU institutions publish sustainability information and how they contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
We also organised a conference - the ECA Forum on Sustainability Reporting - to raise awareness of the issue and bring together key stakeholders. 
In July, we attended a meeting of the SAI presidents and stakeholders on the topic "ORKBs make a difference: Consideration of the implementation of the SDGs" at the UN High-Level Political Forum for the 2030 Agenda. 
Finally, we published a special edition of the ECA Journal on the SDGs. 
Examination team: Analysis "Sustainability reporting: an inventory of the EU institutions, bodies and agencies". 
Institutional relations Continuous increase in presentations to the European Parliament, the Council and national parliaments We work closely with the European Parliament (EP), the Council and national parliaments in the Member States, as the impact of our work depends to a great extent on the benefits these institutions draw from our audit results and recommendations. 
Our audit reports are presented to the relevant committees of the European Parliament and to the Council working groups. 
In addition, we present our annual reports as well as our special reports and analyses to national parliaments. 
In 2019, the presentations of our reports to these institutional addressees continued to increase, mainly due to a significant increase in presentations to national parliaments. 
At the same time, fewer presentations to the EP took place due to the parliamentary break from mid-April to September 2019. 34 
Meeting with the newly elected Presidents of the EU institutions 2019 was a year of change at the forefront of many EU institutions: After their election, our President met with the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council. 
35 ECA President Lehne with EP President David Sassoli, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and President of the Council Charles Michel. 
European Parliament Our members and audit teams are regularly invited by the European Parliament's committees and bodies, and in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control. 
In 2019, due to the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019, special circumstances prevailed in so far as parliamentary committee meetings paused in mid-April and then resumed in September. 
We presented 14 committees 31 special reports and 10 analyses (2018: 39 reports and 14 committees). 
Following the elections, we launched an awareness campaign to inform Members of the European Parliament about our work as an external auditor of the EU. 
We also organised a series of workshops for EP staff. 
Finally, in October 2019, we set up a publication portal that allows not only EP members but also the general public to have more user-friendly access to our reports. 36 
Council of the European Union In 2019, our audit teams presented 22 Council Working Groups and two Committees 26 Special Reports (2018: 40 reports and 27 working groups). 
We also presented two analyses: one to the Committee on Budgets during an informal Council meeting in Romania and another of the Working Group on the 2030 Agenda. 
We also participated in an exchange of views with the Committee on Financial Services on the Memorandum of Understanding with the European Central Bank and with the Committee on Budgets on our draft budget for 2020 and presented our work programme 2020 in December 2019. 
In October 2019, the President of the Eurogroup visited us to discuss the state of play and future reforms of the Economic and Monetary Union and our potential contribution to fiscal and economic governance in the EU. 
In addition, the Chair of the Eurogroup Working Group met with our members in May 2019. 
Governments of Member States and national parliaments More appearances in national parliaments Our members regularly visit national parliaments and governments. 
In 2019, we held 90 presentations in 21 Member States (2018: 50 presentations in 14 Member States). 
This is the highest number so far. 37 
Exchange of views with our audited bodies at the highest level For years, it has been common practice for our Members to hold an annual meeting with their counterparts at the Commission. 
These meetings provide an opportunity to take stock and reflect on how our cooperation can be further improved. 
This tradition continued in June 2019 when President Jean-Claude Juncker invited our members to exchange views with the College of Commissioners in Brussels. 
In October 2019, we signed an agreement with the European Central Bank setting out the practical arrangements for the exchange of information on the supervisory activities of the European Central Bank for our auditors. 
Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCB) Contact Committee of the EU-ORKB Annual Meeting 2019 in Poland Our cooperation with the EU-ORKBs takes place primarily within the framework of the Contact Committee of the EU-ORKB Presidents. 
This network of the EU-ORKBs allows us to promote the activities of independent external financial control in the EU and its Member States. 
In June 2019, we attended the annual meeting hosted by the SAI of Poland, which was also chaired. 
The discussions focused primarily on the challenges and opportunities that Digital Europe brings to the EU-ORKB. 
At this meeting we took over the chair of the Contact Committee, as we do every three years. 
Contact Committee meeting, Warsaw, June 2019. 39 
Online portal "Public Financial Control in the EU" In January 2019 we launched an online portal on financial control in the European Union. 
This online portal provides information on the mandate, status, organisational structure, activity and output of the EU and its Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions. 
In December 2019, on behalf of the Contact Committee, we published a second examination Compendium on Public Health in the EU, which provides information on the audits carried out throughout the European Union in the field of public health. 
The Compendium provides background information on public health, its legal bases, its main objectives and related competences at Member State and EU level. It also illustrates the main challenges facing the EU and its Member States in this regard. 
It is based on recent audit findings by the European Court of Auditors and the SAIs from 23 EU Member States. 
In 2019, we started the preparatory work for a third audit compendium to be published in 2020 and will focus on cybersecurity. 40 
INTOSAI In 2019, the ECA continued its active involvement in the activities of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), in particular as Vice-Chair of the Committee for Technical Standards (since December 2016) and as a member of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting and Accounting, the Subcommittee for the Audit of Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Performance Audits. 
We also participated in the activities and projects of other INTOSAI working bodies, mainly in the areas of environmental assessment, big data, financial modernisation and regulatory reform, as well as evaluation of public policies and programmes. 
We also participated in the INTOSAI Task Force on the professionalisation of auditors, the INTOSAI Development Initiative (IDI) and the revision project for the ISSAI 200 under the aegis of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting and Accounting. 
INTOSAI Congress (INCOSAI) in September 2019 in Moscow. 
Two main topics were discussed in detail at the conference: Information technology for the development of public administration and SAIs' contribution to national priorities and objectives. 
EUROSAI was also actively involved in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), the European Regional Group of INTOSAI, especially in their working groups on environmental auditing, IT auditing and assessment of disaster relief, as well as in its task force audit and ethics. 
We also participated in several workshops and seminars and, together with 14 other European SAIs, contributed to the publication of a joint air quality report. In October 2019, we organised the seventeenth annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment and a joint conference on biodiversity. Finally, we attended the third joint EUROSAI-ASOSAI conference on "New Issues and Emergency Situations" in Israel in March 2019, as well as the first joint EUROSAI-AFROSAI seminar in Lisbon in November 2019 hosted by the Portuguese SAI. 
41 Annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment, October 2019. 
42 The SAIs of EU applicant countries and potential EU candidate countries also support the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo*, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey). This support is primarily provided through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through our promotion of activities coordinated by the OECD. 
In 2019, 10 ORKB auditors from the network participated in our internship program. 
We also actively contributed to the meetings and activities of the network. This included addressing topics such as increased impact accounting policies and digital auditing. 
Peer review is an external independent review of one or more elements of the organisation and/or the functioning of an SAI by a team of peers from one or more SAIs. 
It does not constitute an examination, but an assessment and advice by peers, which is carried out on a voluntary basis. 
In 2019, a peer review team led by our Secretary General, together with the SAIs of Poland and the United Kingdom, conducted a peer review of SAIs of Lithuania. 
The main objective was to assess whether the audit practice of the Lithuanian SAIs complied with international auditing standards. 
In December 2019, the final report was submitted to the Lithuanian Parliament (Seimas). * This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) and the ICJ Opinion on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence. 
Our management The members of the ECA act as a collegial body of members each with one member per Member State. 
Each Member shall be appointed by the Council after having been appointed by his or her national government after consulting the European Parliament. 
We have no role in the appointment and appointment of members. 
When they take office, they shall assume a solemn obligation in this regard before the Court of Justice of the European Union. 
43 meeting of the College of Members of the ECA, held in Luxembourg on 18 July 2019. 
In 2019, the Council appointed four new members of the Court: Viorel tefan (Romania) from 1 July 2019 and Ivana Maletic (Croatia) from 15 July 2019 and Joëlle Elvinger (Luxembourg) and François-Roger Cazala (France) from 1 January 2020. 
In addition, the Council extended the terms of office of three members in office: Alex Brenninkmeijer (Netherlands), Nikolaos Milionis (Greece) and Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany). 
Phil Wynn Owen (UK) was a member until 31 January 2020. 
As of March 2020, following the appointment of Janusz Wojciechowski as a member of the European Commission in December 2019, a Polish member must be appointed and appointed. 
In 2019, the College of Members of the ECA is 21 times (2018: 18 times) met. 
President The President's remit includes the institution's strategy, planning and performance management, communication and media work, relations with other institutions, legal issues and internal audit. 
The President also represents the Court in all his external relations. 
Members elect the president from among them for three years, with the possibility of re-election. 
Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President in September 2016; his re-election took place in September 2019. 
The President and Members 44 Note: As of March 2020. 
The members are assigned to one of our five examination chambers. In the Chambers, most of our audit reports, analyses and opinions are prepared and adopted. 
The chambers are under the direction of a doyen or a doyenne elected by the members of the Chamber from among them. 
As of December 2019, the five examination chambers were led by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Milionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Alex Brenninkmeijer and Lazaros S. Lazarou. 
Daničle Lamarque was the member responsible for quality control in the area of audit (until the end of her term of office in December 2019). 
She chaired the Audit Quality Control Committee. 
The chambers shall divide their responsibilities among the members. 
Each member is accountable to the Chamber and the Court for its own audit tasks. 
Members are supported by a cabinet. 
In addition to their role in the examination chambers, some members have also taken on other tasks: Oscar Herics was chaired by the Ethics Committee, Samo Jereb that of the Audit Committee, Eva Lindström that of the Steering Committee Digitalisation and Joăo Figueiredo this of the Advisory Committee Strategy and Foresight. 
Rimantas Šadžius was the member responsible for institutional relations. 
Decisions on further strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President. 45 
46 Our upper management level consists of the Secretary General and the Directors. 
There are a total of 10 directorates: of these, five are assigned to the Audit Chambers, one to the Audit Quality Control Committee, another to the President and three to the Secretary-General. 
Our top management level Note: As of March 2020. 
We use Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform our management of the progress achieved towards our strategic goals, to support the decision-making process and to provide our institutional addressees with information about our performance. 
These KPIs provide a comprehensive overview of how we are organising our work in terms of dissemination, impact and perception. 
In 2019, as planned, 36 reports published We monitor the number and termination of reports published throughout the year. 
In 2019, we published 36 reports: 25 special reports and 11 analyses. 
This corresponds to the number of publications planned in the work programme. 
Number of Special Reports and Analysis published 47 In addition, we issued six annual reports, three opinions, 18 audit projections and four other publications. 
In total, we produced 67 publications over the course of the year. 48 
Media Presence Continuous increase in social media coverage We track media coverage of our work and our body, which can vary significantly depending on the topic and complexity of a report. 
At the same time, external factors can greatly influence the interest of the media in our publications. 
This may be the case, for example, when the date of publication of a report coincides with an important event or political development, which may significantly increase the public interest in the topic concerned. 
In total, more than 50,000 free online articles and social media articles were recorded in 2019. 
49 For 2019, we noted a significant increase in our social media contributions, also due to the more active use of these communication channels during the year. 
In 2019, we intensified our contacts with the press and the media. 
We achieved this by publishing o 61 press releases in 23 EU languages (2018: 76) as well as numerous briefings and references to the media in certain languages; O 25 press briefings held (2018: 20), including sectoral and country-related press briefings related to the annual report. 
These press briefings usually take place in Brussels. 
We also received journalists working in Brussels and in the Member States for local visits and organised several briefings on selected reports to stakeholders from industry, NGOs and think tanks. 
Visit of journalists from the Member States to Luxembourg in November 2019. 50 
One million visitors to our website in 2019 exceeded the number of visits to our website for the first time 1 million. 
In total, we recorded around 511,000 individual visitors. 
Throughout the year, we have seen an increase in our presence and engagement on social media - especially on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn - which are now an essential part of our communication activities and enable us to engage in direct exchanges with citizens. 
At the end of 2019, our three social media accounts recorded around 29,500 followers (2018: about 22,500). 51 
88 % of the stakeholders surveyed consider our audit reports useful We assess the likely impact and usefulness of our audit work on the basis of feedback from our stakeholders from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, from EU agencies, the permanent representations of Member States, Member States' public bodies and SAIs, NGOs, science, media and other parties. 
Since 2018, we have been requesting feedback from our stakeholders through anonymous electronic surveys on a selection of special reports and analyses as well as on the annual report. 
Through these surveys, stakeholders can also provide feedback on the quality of the reports and make general proposals on the Court's work. 
Overall, 88 % of respondents confirmed the usefulness of our reports for their work in 2019 and 81 % gave them an impact. 
52 Follow-up of our recommendations Almost all our recommendations implemented We determine the state of implementation of our recommendations based on the follow-up made by our auditors. 
For 2019, we analysed the recommendations we made in our 2015 Special Reports and the Annual Report from the same year. 
This analysis shows that 96 % of the recommendations we made in our 2015 annual report and 94 % of the recommendations in our 2015 special reports were fully, largely or (at least) partially implemented. 53 
At the end of 2019, our staff had 853 permanent and scheduling positions (2018: 853 posts), of which 534 in the audit chambers, including 118 posts in members' cabinets. 
54 Furthermore, at the end of the year, 75 contract agents and 16 seconded national experts were employed by the Court (2018: 76 and 15 respectively). 
Our recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions. Our employees have a broad academic and professional background. 
In 2019, the Court hired 77 employees (2018: 79 employees: 17 officials, 33 temporary agents, 21 contract staff and six seconded national experts. 
In addition, we provided 55 internship positions (2018: 60) available for graduates for periods of three to five months. 
Almost three-quarters (74 %) of staff in active employment at the end of 2019 are between 40 and 59 years old. 
55 More than half of our directors and senior managers are 50 years old or older. 
As a result, in the next five to 10 years, when these employees retire, there will be a renewal in management positions. 
Equal opportunities The Court offers its employees equal opportunities at all levels of the organisation. 
Overall, we have a balanced proportion of women and men among our employees. 
In 2019, around one third of our directors and senior managers are women. 
In 2019, we continued to diversify and expand the training offer for our staff. 
We organised a record number of training courses, conferences, presentations and workshops on a wide range of topics. 
We also provided financial support to employees for their participation in externally organised courses and programs to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and degrees. 
We also launched a program to develop leadership skills, which consists of courses, coaching and mentoring for employees who want to expand their leadership skills. 
We supported the work processes of the HR department by training newly created pools of career consultants, mentors and internal intermediaries. 
Once again, we exceeded the requirement for professional training days (5 days of non-language-related training per year), which was set in accordance with the recommendations of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). 
Our auditors completed an average of 7.5 training days; our non-audit staff accounted for an average of 3.6 days of training. 
In July 2019, the second Summer Academy on Public Financial Control and Accountability took place at the University of Pisa on "Digitalisation of Examination". 
In addition, we continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine, in which we offered the fifth edition of the postgraduate course "Audit of public organisations and policies", which results in the Master's degree "Management of public organisations". 
In addition, we launched a new postgraduate program on "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit". 
These programmes are now open to European Commission staff. 
Finally, we intensified our cooperation with the NATO International Audit Committee (IBAN) in the field of training. 
In May 2019, the Court held a workshop on "Assessment of the Union's Security and Defence Policy", which brought together auditors from the Commission, NATO, the European Defence Agency, the Joint Arms Cooperation Organisation (OCCAR), the Athena Mechanism and several EU Supreme Audit Institutions. 
ECAdemy In addition, we launched ECAdemy, a tool that allows us to exchange course material, publish recordings of conferences and organise webinars with all those interested in public financial control in the EU and its Member States. 
This e-learning platform is open to the general public free of charge at https://ecademy.eca.europa.eu. 
58 Sabine Chaupain-Guillot, Vice-Chairman of the Training Committee of the University of Lorraine, Lazaros S. Lazarou, ECRH member (February 2019). 
Translation In 2019, we translated and revised more than 223 000 pages including external contracts (2018: 251 000). 
We translate our publications into all official EU languages. 
We also translate our correspondence with Member States' authorities in their national language, as required by law. 
Our translators are also often involved in our auditing activities by providing linguistic support during audit visits and drafting reports. 
Information technology, work environment and innovation Transition to cloud-based services An important milestone is the transition to cloud-based services, which generally provided an easy-to-use system for various applications from end-users (IT, personnel matters, office equipment, security, etc.). 
A new IT Security Action Plan has achieved many of its objectives, such as the more effective and regular elimination of software vulnerabilities, preventing unauthorised access to cloud services, reviewing information security governance and improving our security monitoring capabilities. 
Finally, an ambitious technical programme was implemented in 2019 to provide devices and systems that enable all employees to work more flexibly, e.g. home office, teleconferencing and mobile work. 
In 2019, we also adopted a new open data access policy. 
The re-use of documents and the process of providing our data are determined in cooperation with the Publications Office. 59 
ECALab, our interdisciplinary innovation laboratory team, has continued to research technologies such as text mining, artificial intelligence and process mining. 
In 2019, the ECALab also started to support a number of audit tasks. 
In November 2019, at the "Big and open data" conference held at our premises in Luxembourg, we also established the network of the EU-ORKB for Technology and Innovation for Audit (TINA). 
Conference on Big and open data, November 2019, Luxembourg. 
In order to accompany the development of the European Blockchain Services Infrastructure by the European Commission and the Member States on the basis of our "proof of concept", another EU-ORKB network on blockchain technology in the audit area has been set up. 60 
Buildings The courtyard currently has three buildings ("K1", "K2" and "K3") which form a single integrated technical unit. 
K1 The K1 building, which opened in 1988, has offices for up to 310 employees and meeting rooms. 
In the basement there are parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, the library and the main archive, while the entire top floor is used for technical facilities. 
The K1 building was modernised in 2008 to bring it into line with national health, safety and environmental requirements. 
As far as possible, the technology in the K1 building has been adapted to ensure compatibility with the K2 and K3 buildings. 
In the basement there are parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms and the fitness centre. 
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees; they also have meeting rooms, a conference room with interpreting booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and simple kitchen areas. 
We are currently modernising the K2 building in order to optimise the organisation of its work areas and to update certain technical facilities. 
A detailed study on this project was carried out in 2019 and work started at the end of the year. 
As approved by the European Parliament and the Council in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining budget of the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation. 61 
In the basement there are parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, unloading areas, equipment for storing waste, printing, kitchens and archives. 
In addition, this building has offices for 503 employees, meeting rooms and an IT room. 
Based on the world's leading Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), the K3 building was rated as "very good". 62 
In 2019, we took a number of measures to increase the safety of our buildings in Luxembourg. 
This included the establishment of a team of armed security officers. 
An agreement has been concluded with the Luxembourg police, which allows us to use their national training centres. 
We have also agreed with the European External Action Service to assist our auditors in their visits to high-risk countries. 
63 Eduardo Ruiz García, Secretary General ECHR, and Helga Schmid, Secretary General EEAS. 
As an EU institution, it is our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities. 
We strive to continue to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions and regularly analyse greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities. 
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 totalled 10 178 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), which represents a 3 % reduction compared to 2017. 
We are proud of our EMAS certification for environmental management and auditing: We successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015. 
An external EMAS audit was conducted in the last quarter of 2019, which resulted in our EMAS certification being renewed for the period 2020-2022. 
New initiatives such as the "plastic-free ECA" initiative are progressing as planned. 
In 2019, in cooperation with the Luxembourg Ministry of Agriculture, we also set up four beehives in our gardens. 
The bees are supervised by volunteers. 
We believe this will have a positive impact on the sustainability of pollinators in our environment. 64 
Accountability of the Court Financial Information The Court is financed from the general budget of the European Union, with its budget falling under the heading administrative expenditure. 
For 2019, our budget amounted to around 147 million euros, of which 98 % were used during the year. 
This represents less than 0.1 % of the EU's total expenditure, or around 1.5 % of the EU's total administrative expenditure. 
Implementation of the 2019 budget 65 10 - Members of the institution 11 324 20 - Building 3 526 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 8 085 3 523 Use of appropriations in % HAUSHALTSJAHR 2019 Final appropriation Title 1: Members and commitments 97 % 99 % payments Personnel of the institution (thousand euro) 11 004 10 963 12 - Officials and temporary staff 107 367 14 - Other staff and external services 6 683 106 434 99 % 106 434 162 - Missions 3 200 6 407 2 700 96 % 84 % 6 272 2 457 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure for Members 3 089 and the staff of the institution Subtotal Title 1 131 663 Title 2: 3 008 129 553 97 % 98 % 2 201 128 327 1 965 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and related costs 976 8 085 100 % 5 138 23 - Current operating expenses 424 880 90 % 769 25 - Meetings and conferences 620 339 80 % 272 27 - Information and publications 1 596 Subtotal Title 2 15 227 European Court of Auditors total 146 890 487 78 % 97 % 302 1 448 14 762 90 % 1 027 9 473 144 315 98 % 137 800 
Budget 2020 The 2020 budget shows an increase of 4.3 % compared to 2019. 
Budget 2020 2019 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 - Members of the institution 11 751 12 - Officials and temporary staff 111 860 14 - Other staff and external services 7 403 162 - Missions 3 370 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 11 474 66 107 666 6 381 3 450 Subtotal Title 1 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various material expenditure 2 945 137 329 3 098 132 069 20 - Building 3 255 2 984 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 7 718 7 605 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and related costs 963 998 23 - Current operating expenses 563 25 - Meetings and conferences 696 27 - Information and publications 2 613 Subtotal Title 2 15 808 European Court of Auditors 153 137 548 700 1 986 14 821 146 890 
Internal and external audit Internal Audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues. 
It provides independent and objective assurance and provides advisory services designed to increase and improve the Court's activities. 
It shall also report to the Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and an external expert. 
The Committee regularly monitors progress on the various tasks laid down in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and ensures the independence of the department. 
In the course of 2019, the Internal Audit Service performed three selected tasks: "Risks and challenges of the Audit Quality Control Committee", "Members' travel expenses and high-level officials, expenses related to representation of members and use of the Court's vehicle fleet" and "professional training activities of the Court". 
In addition, our risk management strategy and three annual declarations by subdelegation have undergone an investigation. 
In addition, the Internal Audit Service supervised the implementation of its previous recommendations by ensuring that the agreed action plans were implemented and discussed issues of the Court's new internal control framework. 
Our internal auditor did not identify any shortcomings which, due to their nature or scale, would seriously jeopardise the reliability of the internal control systems as a whole; these control systems had been introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations in 2019. 
External Audit Our annual accounts are audited by an independent external auditor. 
We attach great importance to this audit as it shows that we apply to ourselves the same principles of transparency and accountability as for the bodies we audit. 
The auditor's report - PricewaterhouseCoopers S.ŕ.r.l. - on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2018 was published on 4 April 2019. 67 
Audit opinions of our independent auditor - financial year 2018 68 To the Court's annual accounts: According to our assessment, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31. December 2018 and the results of its operations, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ended that reference date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002. 
L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1) and its ex post amendments, hereinafter referred to as 'the Financial Regulation', and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 
L 362, 31.12.2012, p. 1) on the rules of application of the Financial Regulation and its subsequent amendments." 
On the use of resources and the Court's control procedures: "In our work steps described in this report, we have not encountered situations from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the above-mentioned assessment criteria o, the resources allocated to the Court were not used for the intended purposes and o the control procedures put in place do not provide the requisite assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations." 
Discharge for the financial year 2017 Like the other EU institutions, the Court is also subject to the discharge procedure. 
In March 2019, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2017. 
As every year, we have carefully analysed all the issues raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility, took appropriate action and reported in detail to the European Parliament on our follow-up. 
Finally, in 2019, our ethics framework was subjected to an external peer review by the SAIs of Poland and Croatia. 
The corresponding report was finalised in January 2020. 69 
Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation In accordance with Article 74(9) of the Financial Regulation, the undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, that the information contained in this report, as well as the additional internal information relating to the performance of my obligations, containing financial and management information, including the results of the controls, are correct and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable assurance that - the resources allocated to the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management - the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the appropriate handling of allegations of fraud or suspicion of fraud, - costs and benefits of the checks are proportionate. 
Done at Luxembourg, 26 March 2020 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 70 
The re-use of the following photos is permitted, stating the copyright owner, the source and, if indicated, the name of the photographers or architects: P. 2, (c) European Union, 2020, Source: ECRH. 
Pages 6, 32, 33, 38 (below), 41, 42, 43, 50, 58, 60, 63 and 64, (c) European Union, 2019, Source: ECRH. 
P. 15, first row, right, (c) European Union, 2010/Carlos Juan. 
P. 15, second row, Mitte, (c) European Union, 2013, Source: EP/Bauweraerts Didier. 
P. 17, (c) European Union, 2013, Source: EP/Jennifer Jacquemart. 
P. 19, (c) European Union, 2015/Angelos Tzortzinis. 
P. 21, (c) European Union, 2016, Source: EP/Fred Marvaux. 
P. 26, left, (c) European Union, 2019/Anouk Delafortrie. 
P. 26, right, (c) European Union, 2019, Lisa Hastert. 
P. 28, (c) European Union, 2019, Source: EP/Benoit Bourgeois. 
P. 35, left, (c) European Union, 2019, Source: EP (20191022_EP-093734A_DLL_007). 
P. 35, Mitte, (c) European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission. 
P. 35, right, (c) European Union, 2019, Source, European Council. 
P. 38, above, (c) European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission, Audiovisual Service/Etienne Ansotte. 
P. 62, (c) European Union, 2019, Source: ECRH. 
Architects of the buildings: Paul Noël (1988) and Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013). 
If you want to use or reproduce content in which the EU does not have copyrights, you must obtain an authorisation directly from the copyright holders: Pp. 7 and 8: Image icons of Pixel perfect on the platform https://flaticon.com. 
P. 12, from left to right: (c) contains modified Copernicus Sentinel data (2018) processed by GeoVille; (c) Shutterstock/Andrey_Popov; (c) Shutterstock/G-Stock Studio. 
P. 13, from left to right: (c) Shutterstock/Antonio Guillem; (c) Shutterstock/Gorodenkoff; (c) Shutterstock/igorstevanovic. 
P. 15, first row, left, (c) Shutterstock/Billion Photos; P. 15, first row, center, (c) Shutterstock/Gorodenkoff. 
P. 15, second row, left, (c) Shutterstock/LMWH; P. 15, second row, right, (c) Shutterstock/Photolines. 
P. 15, last row, from left to right: (c) Shutterstock/Syda Productions; (c) Shutterstock/Jenson; (c) courtesy of EUROCONTROL. 
S. 18, (c) Shutterstock/Bannafarsai_Stock. 
P. 20, (c) Shutterstock/pisaphotography. 
P. 26, Mitte, (c) MCI Benelux, 2019. 
P. 39, (c) NIK (Najwyzsza Izba Kontroli), Warsaw, 2019. 
Contact the EU Visit In the European Union there are hundreds of "Europe Direct" information offices. 
Use this link to find an information office in your area: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_de telephone or e-mail The Europe Direct service answers your questions about the European Union. 
Contact Europe Direct via the toll-free phone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers charge fees), - via the toll-free phone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers charge fees), - by e-mail via: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_de Information about the EU On the Internet on the Europa portal you will find information about the European Union in all official languages: https://europa.eu/european-union/index_de EU publications You can - partly free of charge - download or order EU publications at https://publications.europa. eu/de/publications. 
If you would like several copies of a free publication, please contact Europe Direct or the Information Office in your area (see https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_de). 
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1952 in all official languages, can be found in EUR-Lex: https://eur-lex.europa.eu Open data of the EU via its Open Data Portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp/de) provides data sets. 
The data can be downloaded free of charge for commercial and non-commercial purposes. 
ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 QJ-AA-20-001-EN-C 
De EUROPEAN COUNCIL 2013 Brief information on the audit of the EU Presentation of the European Court of Auditors' annual reports on the financial year 2013 
Luxembourg: Office for Publications of the European Union, 2014 ISBN 978-92-872-0998-6 doi:10.2865/23970 (c) European Union, 2014 Reprinted with source allowed. 
De 2013 Short information on the EU audit Presentation of the European Court of Auditors' annual reports on the financial year 2013 
President 02 Each year in November, the European Court of Auditors reports on the results of itsannual EUfinancial management audits in the previous financial year. 
On the basis of the audit evidence obtained, the Court provides assurance on the use of EUfunds and highlights the greatest risk that EU funds have not been used properly. 
The guidelines also contain recommendations for possible improvements to the EU'sfinancial management. 
In this way, the Court supports the European Parliament and the Council in the review of EUspendingand contributes to the effective implementationofaccounting obligationstowards EU citizens. 
This "Short Information on the EU Audit in 2013" summarises and explains the main findings in our year2013 on the implementation of the EUbudgetand /or the European Development Funds. 
As in previous years, the reports provide information on the extent towhich EUfinancial managementactors at EU and national levelhave provided a true picture of financial management in their reports, ensured the application of EUfinancial rulesand complied with the basic set of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. 
2013 was the last year of a seven-year programming period, and we publish ourreports on this financial year in a transition phase that is important for the EU and its finances. 
As our reports show, a new European Parliament and a new Commission arefacing both long-standing and new challenges for financial management and accountability in the now ongoing 2014-2020 programming period. 
The pressure on EU and national finances continues to require careful management and control of EU funds and better forecasts of long-term financing needs. 
In particular, in our reports, we point out that the Commission and the authorities ofthe Member States need to pay greater attention to the use of EUfundsto deliver results that could not be achieved equally efficiently or effectively by other means. 
At the same time, the Court's audit results show that even more can and should be done to ensure thatthe EU discharges are carried out in accordance with the rules. 
The Court will gladly take the opportunity to support the new European Parliament and the new Commission in solving these and otherproblems of financial management and accounting at EU level. 
To this end, based on our audit experience, we have also produced two landscape analyses highlighting the EU's key challenges in the areas of accounting, auditing and financial management. 
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors 
Content 03 Page 04 Overall results 04 Key statements 05 Regulatory use of EU funds 15 EU funds and earnings 18 Viewing revenue and expenditure areas 18 Revenues 20 Agriculture: Market support and direct payments 22 Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 24 Regional policy, transport and energy 26 Employment and social affairs 28 External relations, external assistance and enlargement 30 Research and other internal policy areas 32 Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 33 European Development Fund (EDF) 35 Background information 35 The audit approach at a glance 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work 
Summary of the Statement of Assurance for 2013 The European Court of Auditors (ECA, 'the Court') gives an unrestricted opinion onthe reliability of the 2013 accounts of the European Union. 
Overall, the revenue for 2013 is legal and regular. 
Overall, the commitments for 2013 are legal and regular. 
Payments for 2013 are materially affected by errors. 
Therefore, the Court gives a failed opinion on its legality and regularity. 
The text of the Statement of Assurance can be found in Chapter 1 of the 2013 Annual Report. ? The Court estimates that the level of error measured by the levelof irregularities for 2013 is 4.7 %. This figure is close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8 %) and consistently above the materiality threshold of 2 %. ? Overall, the audited supervisory and control systems - with significantdivergences between Member States - ensured the regularity of payments due to a conditional effect. ? Most likely, the two expenditure areas were regional policy, transport and energy with an error rate of 6.9 % and rural development, environment, fisheries and health with an error rate of 6.7 %. 
Under shared management, i.e. including agriculture: Market support and direct payments as well as employment and social affairs,the estimated level of error was 5.2 %. ? corrective measures and recoveries by the authorities in the Member States andthe mission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate. 
EU funds for 2013 Each year, the Court audits the EU's revenue and expenditure and, in its audit report, assesses thereliability of the annual accounts and how the revenueand expenditure transactions arein line with the rules and regulations. 
In 2013, expenditure from the EUbudget amounted to a total of EUR 148,5 billion, or around EUR 290 per citizen. 
This expenditure represents about 1 % of the EU's gross national income and accounts for about 2 % of the total public expenditure ofthe EU Member States. 
The EUbudget is adopted annually by the European Parliament and the Council on the basis of a seven-year financial framework. 
The Commission's primary task is to ensure that the budget is spent on a regular basis. 
For around 80 % of expenditure, particularly in agriculture and cohesion, the Commission shares this task with the EUMember States. 
Where do the funds come from? 
The EU budget is financed from various sources. 
The largest share is due to payments made by Member States on the basis of their gross national income (EUR 110.0 billion). 
Other sources include payments made by Member States on the basis of the VAT they collect (14.5 billion euro) as well as customs and agricultural duties (EUR 15.4 billion). 
The annual EUbudget is spent in a wide range of policy areas (see Figure 1). 
The payments made are intended to support activities as diverseas research activities, training of unemployed persons or agricultural production. 
Total results 06 Expenditure in 2013 6.9 % Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 8.9 % Research and other internal policies 9.4 % Employment and social affairs 9.9 % Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 4.2 % External relations, external assistance and enlargement expenditure totalling EUR 148,5 billion 30.4 % Regional policy, transport and energy 30.3 % Agriculture: Market support and direct payments audit findings for 2013 A key element of the Court's audit work is the audit of samples of transactions drawn from all parts of the EUbudgetin order to obtain statistical estimates of the extent to which revenue and the different expenditure areas are affected. 
The results for 2013 aresummarised in Figure 2. 
Further information on the Court's audit approach and the estimation of the most likely error rate can be found on page 35. 
Audit of transactions for the EU budget as a whole - Results for 2013 Audited amount and most likely error rate Revenue Expenditure Conclusion 0.0 % 4.7 % EUR 150 billion Not materially affected by errors 0 30 billion EUR 60 billion EUR 90 billion EUR 120 billion % Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on the quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) 
Overall results 07 For 2013, the Court concludes that revenue was not materially affected by errors. 
For the expenditure budget as a whole, the estimated level of error is 4.7 %, resulting in a failed audit opinion on the regularity of expenditure (see page36 for an explanation of the term 'orderuality'). 
Further information on the different areas of expenditure can be found in pages 18 to 34 and the corresponding chapters of the 2013 annual report. 
Audit of transactions in each EU spending area - Results for 2013 Audited amount and the most likely error rate 6.9 % 3.6 % 3.1 % 6.7 % 4.6 % 2.6 % Employment and Social spending Area materially affected by errors Not materially affected by errors Regional policy, transport and energy Conclusion Agriculture: Market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 1.0 % EUR 0 10 billion EUR 20 billion EUR 30 billion EUR 40 billion EUR 50 billion Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on the quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Note: We use standard statistical methods to estimate the error rate (see Annex 1.1 of Chapter 1 of the Annual Report). % Graph 3 Total results 08 Analysis of audit results The Court estimates the level of error at 4.7 % for payments for 2013. 
This figure is close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8 %) and consistently above themateriality threshold of 2 % (see Figure 4). Estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole (2007-2013) EU expenditure 10 % 8 % 6 % 4 % 2 % 0 % 6.9 % 5.2 % 4.8 % 4.7 % 3.3 % 3.7 % 3.9 % 2007 2008 Upper error limit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 % Estimated error rate Lower error limit Note: We use standard statistical methods to estimate the most likely error rate. 
The Court is 95 % sure that the error rate for the population concerned is within the range between the lower error limit and the upper error limit. 
For more details, see Annex 1.1 and Figure 1.3 of Chapter 1 of the Annual Report. Figure 4 
Overall results 09 Errors, waste and fraud The error rate estimated by the Court is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste. 
It is abudget which should not have been disbursed because they have notbeen used in accordance with the applicable law. 
Typical errors include payments for ineligible expenditure or for purchases for which procurement rules have not been properly applied. 
Fraud is a deliberate deception with the aim of gaining benefits. 
The Court forwards cases which it encounters during its audits and in which it suspects fraud to OLAF (the European UnionAnti -Fraud Office), which is responsible for carrying out any furtherinvestigations with the authorities in the Member States. 
A comparison of the estimated error rates for the different spending areas is shown in Figure 5. 
Higher quotas in research and other internal policies, administrative expenditure and related expenditure were offset by lower rates in rural development, environment, fisheries and health, as well as external relations, external assistance and enlargement. 
As in 2012, the two spending areas of regional policy, transport and energy, as well as rural development, environment, fisheries and health were the most flawed. 
These two areas are combined with the other two areas of shared management (agriculture: Market support and direct payments, as well as employment and social affairs), an estimated error rate of 5.2 %. 
For all other operational expenditure (mostly managed directly by the Commission), the estimated level of error was 3.7 %. 
In addition, the Court found an estimated error rate of 1.0 % for administrative expenditure. 
Overall results 10 Comparison of estimated error rates in each EU spending area for 2012 and 2013 8 % 6 % 4 % 2 % 0 6.8 % 6.9 % 6.7 % 2012 7.9 % 3.9 % 3.8 % 3.6 % 3.2 % 3.1 % 4.1 % 4.6 % 3.9 % 3.3 % 6.6 % 0 % 1.0 % Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: Market support and direct payments Employment and social development of rural areas, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure Figure 5 
11 Breakdown of the estimated total error rate by expenditure area and type of error Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: Market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Employment and social research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 4.7 % Error declarations on agricultural land Serious breaches of procurement rules Ineligible projects, activities or beneficiaries Inclusion of ineligible costs in 1.8 % the cost statements % Estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole % Share of the total error rate (in percentage points) 2, 1 % 1.1 % 0.7 % Other types of error 0.3 % 0.3 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Total error rate 0.6 % 1.0 % 1.1 % Share of the estimated total error rate Total error rate by type of error by expenditure area Figure 6 
12 The Court analyses the contribution of the different types of error as well as of the individual expenditure areas tothe estimated overall error rate (see Figure 6). 
Expenditure that did not meet the necessary conditions to be declared underEU-funded projects had the largest share of the estimated total error rate (including ineligible costs in the cost statements: 39 % or 1.8 percentage points of the estimatedtotal error quo). 
In the second place were projects where either the object(s) financed or the beneficiary should not have been funded under the applicable rules (ineligible projects/activities or beneficiaries: 22 % or 1.1 percentage points of the estimated total error rate). 
As the largest expenditure area with the highest estimated level of error, regional policy, transport and energy contribute by far the most to the estimated overall error rate (44 % or 2.1 per cent ofthe estimated total error rate). 
The Agriculture Sector: Market support and direct payments, where the volume of expenditure was almost as high, contributes about half as much to the estimated overall error rate. 
Corrective measures have a positive impact on the error rate The Member States and the Commission apply corrective measures to protect the EUbudgetincases of unaffected control systems or irregular expenditure. 
If such corrective measures had not been applied to the 2013 payments audited by the Court, the estimated total error rate would have been 6.3 % instead of 4.7 %. 
However, the estimated error rate could still be significantly reduced by better application of existing control systems and corrective measures. 
We found that the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors before requesting reimbursement from the Commission for a large part of the error-bearing transactions in the areas of sharedmanagement. 
For example, this would have reduced the estimated error rate in regional policy, transport and energy from 6.9 % to 3.9 %, in rural development, environment, fisheries and health from 6.7 % to 2.0 % and in employment and social affairs from 3.1 % to 1.9 %. 
New challenges for the presentation of reliable financial information The reporting of the corrective adjustments mentioned above does not clearly distinguish betweenthe main types of corrective adjustments. In addition, the information is provided largely outside the accounting system. 
This makes a more detailed analysis and reduces the accuracy of the figures reported in the accounts and related financial reporting. 
A further development is the increasing use of financial instruments to support investments in potentially economically viable projects, in the form of loans, guarantees, equity and other risk mechanisms. 
Due to their complex structure, financial instruments require special care in their assessment and recording in accordance with internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector. 
Overall results 13 Continuous increase in the amounts to be financed from future budgets The main features of EU financial management and management in 2013 include: ? a strong increase in the volume of payments which the Commission was entitled tomake through correction plans: 9.6 % of the initial budget; ? a continued increase in commitments giving rise to payments in the future (by 2.6 %) despite the high volume of payments; ? an unchanged long period (on average more than two years) between the date of the initial commitment and the date on which the declarations of expenditure are accepted by the Commission; ? only 37 % of the funds allocated to financial instruments had been disbursed to final beneficiaries at the end of 2012; ? repayments, interest and dividends amounting to EUR 259 million, which has accumulated since2008, were not recognised as revenue. 
What are commitments and payments? 
The EUbudget consists of two elements: Commitments (to be paid in the current or coming years) and payments (covering funding paid in the current year). 
Payments can only be made against valid commitments. 
The annual ceilings for commitment and payment appropriations are set out in the multiannual financial framework agreed by the Council and Parliament. 
The nature of EUspending programmes, in particular the long period between commitment and payment, is putting increasing pressure on future payment budgets. 
This is reflected in a significantly higher budget for payments in 2013, and this trend will continue similarly in future budgets. 
14 In the Court's view, the Commission should publish more meaningful information on the functioning of the correction mechanisms (time, origin and nature) and increase the accuracy of the corresponding figures by recording information within the traditional accounting systems; record and assess all financial instruments and financial instruments in accordance with internationally recognisedpublic sector accounting principles, in particular through reliable procedures for identifying and recording impairments; provide information on the cash resources held until disbursement to the final beneficiaries; prepare and publish a long-term cash flowforecast, updated annually; this would make it easier for the stakeholders concerned to identify future payment needs and todefine the House's priorities. Want to know more? 
Full information on the main audit findings can befound in Chapter 1 "Declaration of reliability and related statements" of the 2013 annual report on the implementation of the EU budget. 
Overall results 15 EU funds and output of EUfunds should be used in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (economy, efficiency and effectiveness). 
Against this background, inputs are needed to achieve good performance (financial, human, material, organisational or regulatory resilience required for programme implementation), outputs (which is to be achieved under the programme), results (immediate changes due to the programme's direct participants or direct beneficiaries) and impacts (long-term societal changes, at least partly due to the EUaction). 
The Court assesses these aspects in its performance audits. 
The focus is not enough on performance In the 2007-2013 programming period, the focus was on absorption (use it or loose it) and compliance with legislation rather than good performance. 
In the selection of projects for EUfunding, for example, the need to usethe available EUfunds was paramount. Second came the necessary compliance with the rules, and only to a certain extent - and only to some extent - was the achievement of results and effects. 
This focus on performance is a crucial weakness in the way a large part of the EUbudget is built up. 
According to the Commission, the focus in the 2014-2020 programming period is more onelicitation, with performance reserves being the main incentive. 
Through these reserves, the Commission will retain 6 % of the resources allocated to individual Member States until the performance is considered satisfactory. 
In practice, however, input and output indicators will continue to be largely in tune with the release of funds. 
Result indicators will only be used by the Commission in some areas. 
Whether performance reserves work more effectively will depend on the Commission's success in negotiating appropriate targets and milestones at the beginning of the programming period and in obtaining accurate, reliable and up-to-date data from Member States to determine whether the targets have been achieved. 
The reporting framework is not suitable for the desired performance culture The performance reporting is divided into several general reports at the level of the general budget. 
These reports do not provide information on progress towards the achievement of the Europe 2020 strategy objectives, nor provide a comprehensive overview of the results in the form of EUadded value. 
However, the fourth evaluation report represents a step in the right direction in that it seeks to establish a link between the main financial programmes and the available performance information relevant to the Europe 2020 strategy. 
At the level of each Directorate-General of the Commission, performance targets for policy areas under their respective competences are defined in the management plans. It will then be reported in the Annual Activity Reports. 
The Court's analysis of the management plans and annual activity reports of the Commission's Directorates-General showed that assurance is limited to aspects of regularity and internal control and performance aspects are not taken into account. 
In addition,the objectives are too general to be used for management purposes, and the selected indicators are not always suitable for performance measurement. 
Overall results 16 The added value generated by EU spending is not always demonstrated In the 19 special reports adopted by the Court in 2013, performance audits cover a wide range of topics and assess whether the EUinterventionhas been implemented in line with the principles of sound financial management (economy, efficiency and effectiveness). 
We examined the lessons learned from our special reports adopted in 2013 for thepreparation of the new programmes and projects for the2014-2020 programming period and reached the following conclusion: ? The EU added value could not always be ensured. ? In several cases, there were potential carry-over effects, i.e. the beneficiaries would have carried out the activity even without EU funding. 
Example: European Globalisation Adjustment Fund The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund compensates workers affected by collective redundancies. 
We found that one third of the funding was used for actions that would have already been paid by Member States (Special Report No 7/2013 "has the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund provided EU added value in the reintegrationofredundant workers?". 
Example: The Commission had not sufficiently demonstrated that the EUfunds provided under the Financial Facility on a risk-sharing basis (financial instrument designed to facilitate access to external financing in the field of research)result in higher investments than the beneficiaries would make without public funds (Special Report No 2/2013 "Has the Commission ensured an efficient implementation of the Seventh Framework Programme?". 
Overall results 17 Most of the Court's recommendations have been implemented The Court's follow-up to its recommendations following performance audits is a key part of the accountability cycle and can facilitate the effective implementation by the Commission of the recommendations contained in the reports. 
The Court analysed how the Commissionfurther addressed recommendations from eight special reports adopted in 2007-2010 and noted that the Commission had implemented 79 % of the recommendations either fully or largely. 
The Court recommends that the Commission: ? The Commission should streamline the framework for its performance in the next revision of the Financial Regulation. ?The Commission should ensure that the evaluation report contains a summary overview of all available information on progress towards achieving the Europe 2020 objectives. ? The Commission should further develop its performance managementand reporting system in order to be able to assume responsibility for sound financial management and the contribution of the EUbudgetto political successes. Want to know more? 
Full information on the Court's assessment of performance can be found in Chapter 10"EU Budget and Results" of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EUbudget for the 2013 budget. 
All special reports are available on the Court's website: http://www.eca.europa.eu/de/ Pages/AuditReportsOpinions.aspx. 
The contributions calculated on the basis of the gross national income (GNI) of the Member States or of the VAT collected by Member States accounted for 74 % and 10 % of revenue respectively in 2013. 
Import duties and theproduction levy on sugar levied by the authorities in the Member States on behalf of the EU accounted for 10 % of the EU's revenue. The remaining 6 % comes from other revenue. 
The EU revenue based on GNI andVATwill be calculated on the basis of macroeconomic statistics and estimates provided by Member States. 
The Court's audit of the regularity of the underlying transactions relates to the processing of these data by the Commission, but not to the initial collection of those data by the authorities in the Member States. 
Consequently, the Court's audit conclusion concerns the impact of any errors made by the Commission on the total amount of revenue. 
As regards customs duties, the Court examines how the Commission deals with the claims established bythe Member States. 
These data are not sufficiently harmonised among Member States. 
A reservation is an instrument that allows the possibility of correction to be kept open for a contentious element in GNIdatatransmitted by a Member State. 
There is a general reservation on the Greek GNI data for the years 2008 and 2009, as the data are still based on preliminary estimates. 
This aspect is part of a problem affecting Greece's national accounts. 
19 The customs authorities of the Member States carry out checks to verify that importerscomply with customs and import requirements. 
We found that the quality of these controlswas very different in the Member States visited. 
This may lead importers to decide to notify goods in a Member State other than that in which they are established in order to reduce the likelihood of inspection and to make it difficult to collect the duties due. 
One example in which this procedure appears to be present is the case of an importer who loaded Chinese textiles in Hamburg (Germany) and transported them to Rotterdam, where they were declared for free circulation and subsequently sent them to Poland for final sale. 
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ? The Commission should work to ensure that Member States harmonise their methods for calculating unobserved economic activity data. ? The Commission should draw up a detailed action plan with clear milestones and closely monitor itsimplementation in order to address the problems in the preparation ofGreece's national accounts. ? The Commission should establish minimum standards for controls by Member States' customs authorities in order to allow for a more targeted focus on importers at high risk. Want to know more? 
Full information on the Court's audit ofEUrevenue can be found in Chapter 2 of the Annual Report on the implementation ofthe EU budget for the financial year 2013. 
20 This area of expenditure covers the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), one of the two main instruments of the EU's common agricultural policy. 
The aim of this policy is to increase the productivityof farmers, to ensure an adequate standard of living for the agricultural population, to stabilise markets, to ensure supply and to ensure the supply to consumers at reasonable prices. 
Expenditure is subject to shared management with the Member States. 
Yes Estimated errors- quote: 3.6 % (2012: 3.8 %) Control systems examined: Most expenditure in this area is calculated on the basis of agricultural land. 
Many quantifiable errors are the result of inaccuracies in beneficiaries' applications, most of which are excessive area indications (see example). 
Example: Over-declarations - Application for aid for ineligible land In Germany, Ireland, Greece, France, Poland and Romania* someareas declad as permanent pasture for which corresponding payments were made were actually covered in whole or in part with ineligible vegetation (dense bushes or trees). 
EU aid should not have been paidforthese ineligible areas. 
In Greece, this error occurred because such areas were classified as eligible grassland and were included in the agricultural parcel identification system accordingly. * Note on the mention of Member States in the examples: The sampling approach applied by the Court does not audit transactions every year in each Member State, beneficiary country and/or region. 
The examples of errors are intended to illustrate the most common types of errors. 
They do not provide a basis for conclusions on the Member States, beneficiary countries and/or regions concerned. 
For all EAGFdirectaidschemes, EU beneficiaries are legally obliged to comply with 'other-wide obligations' (cross-compliance) relating to environmental protection, human, animal and plant health and animal welfare, as well as the conservation of areas in good agricultural and ecological conditions.
If farmers fail to comply with these obligations, their aid will be reduced. 
In its audits, the Court found infringements of 25 % of the transactions related to these obligations. 
In the case of a significant number of transactions affected by errors, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before requesting a refund to the Commission. 
If this information had been used to correct errors before the expenditure was declared to the Commission, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 2.5 %. 
21 The Court's investigation of integrated management and control systems (IACS) in four Member States (Germany, Ireland, France and Italy) revealed weaknesses in the management control procedures and the quality of databases in three Member States( Ireland, France and Italy), ? deficiencies in the quality of on-the-spotchecksin two Member States (Germany and Italy), ? weaknesses in the procedures for recovering unduly paid amounts in two Member States (Ireland and Italy). 
Despite the deficiencies identified during the audit, IACS contributes significantly to the prevention of errors in the expenditure covered by this system. 
In the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 or later, producer groups in the fruit and vegetables sector mayreceive EU aid. 
In order to be recognised as a producer group, certain conditions must be met with regard to the number and relative size of the member producers. 
We found that nine of the 40 producer groups audited in Poland did not comply with these conditions. 
In its 2013 Annual Activity Report, the Commission reported that it had reserved a risk amount of 25 % of the totalexpenditure under the measure concerned in Poland. 
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations: ? The Commission and the Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that the potential of IACS is fully exploited. To this end, they should ensure, for example, that the eligibility and size of agricultural parcels are correctly assessed and recorded. ? The Commission should monitor the corrective measures related to the shortcomings of the EUaidto producer groups in Poland. Want to know more? 
Full information on the Court's audit oftheEU expenditure on market supportand direct payments in agriculture can be found in Chapter 3 of the Annual Report on the implementation ofthe EU Household Plan for the financial year 2013. 
22 This area of expenditure covers rural development policy areas, climateand environmental policy, maritime affairs and fisheries, and health and consumer protection. 
88 % of payments in this area are financed by the European AgriculturalFund for Rural Development (EAFRD). 
Expenditure is subject to shared management with the Member States. 
The EAFRD co-finances rural development expenditure under relevant Member States' programmes. 
Expenditure covers area-related measures (such as agri-environmental payments and compensatory payments to farmers in areas with natural handicaps) and non-area-related measures (such as modernisation of agricultural holdings andbasic services for the rural economy and population). 
Yes Estimated error rate: 6.7 % (2012: 7.9 %) Control systems examined: Conditionally effective Most of the errors were due to the failure to comply with the eligibility conditions. In particular, this concerned the following conditions: Agri-environment commitments (see example), specificrequirements for investment projects and procurement rules. 
Example: Non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments A farmer in Sardinia (Italy) was compensated for not using environmentally harmful plant protection products when cultivating artichokes. 
During its on-the-spotcheck, the Court found that the beneficiary had used such plant protection products twelve times during the audited period. 
Therefore, the payment for aid was not eligible. 
Similar cases of non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments have also been detected in the Piedmont region (Italy) as well as in Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland and Romania. 
23 In the case of a significant number of transactions affected by errors, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before requesting reimbursement from the Commission. 
If this information had been used to correct errors before the expenditure was declared to the Commission, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 2.0 %. 
The Court's examination of rural development control systems showed that: ? deficiencies in the checks on eligibility conditions, e.g. non-recovery of VATamounts or the riskof double financing (in seven of the eight Member States examined - Germany, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Malta, Romania and Slovenia; Poland was the exception); ? inadequate assessment of the plausibility of costs (in all four Member States examined - Italy,Lett -land, Poland and Romania); ? inadequacies in the design and implementation of cross-compliance controls (in all four MemberStates sought - Czech Republic, Spain, Italy and Malta); the crosscompliance obligations require beneficiaries to meet specific conditions, such as environmentaland social standards, in order to qualify for aid; ? shortcomings in the checks on procurement rules (in all three Member States examined - Italy, Lett-land and Poland; see example). 
Example: In Latvia, the Paying Agency was a beneficiary of an EAFRDaidamounting to EUR 2 million to finance its outsourced IT system. This contract was subject to the rules governing the award ofpublic contracts. 
We found thatseveral serious errors had occurred in the procurement of the ITsystemand the subsequent data records. 
For example, instead of an open or restricted procedure, the Paying Agency applied a handling procedure, as provided forin the legislation. 
Due to non-compliance with the prescribed procedures, expenditure is noteligible for EU funding. 
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations in favour of rural development: ? Member States should improve the implementation of their existing administrative controls by using all relevant information available to paying agencies. 
In this way, most of the errors could be detected and corrected. ? Member States should ensure that the action plans aimed at addressing the high estimated rural development rate of ruraldevelopment include all regions and take into account all measures, in particular investment measures, and that they take into account the Commission's and the Court's auditfindings. Want to know more? 
Full information on the Court's audit of the EUexpenditurein rural development, environment, fisheries and health can be found in Chapter 4 of the Annual Report on the implementation of theEU budget for the financial year 2013. 
This audit covered regional policy (96 % of payments in this area of expenditure), mainly financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF). 
The aim of regional policy is to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the European Union by reducing the development gap between the different regions. 
Expenditure on regional policies is subject to shared management by the Commission and Member States, with projects being co-financed under approved spending programmes. 
The remaining 4 % of this audited expenditure area is covered by transport and energy policy areas. 
Transport and energy policy aims to provide European citizens and businesses with safe, sustainable and competitive transport and energy systems and services. 
This expenditure is managed directly by the Commission. 
Yes Estimated mostlikely error rate: 6.9 % (2012: 6.8 %) Control systems examined: Conditionally effective We found serious errors in public procurement, accounting for 39 % of our estimated level of error. 
The cumulative contract value of the 122 audited procurement procedures is estimated to be 4.2 billion euros. 
Example: Unjustified direct award contracts for additional works at the passenger terminal of an airport in Germany were awarded freelyto the original contractor. 
This additional work was necessary becauseof the thorough preparation, planning and implementation of the project and not dueto unpredictable circumstances. 
In such cases, a direct award is inadmissible, which is why the additional work should have been tendered. 
Similar cases involving unjustified direct award wereidentified in projects in Bel-gien, the Czech Republic, elsewhere in Germany, Spain, Italy and Sweden. 
25 In addition, the Court's auditors examine whether the EUruleson State aid are complied with. 
Unlawful State aid confers an unjustified advantage on the beneficiary authorities and therefore affects the internal market. 
State aid errors accounted for 17 % of the estimated error rate in this area (see example). 
Example: Aid for research and development in the automotive industry has been granted to a small or medium-sized enterprise (SME) in Slovenia. 
However, the SME was wholly owned by large companies and carried out its research activities exclusively for them. 
Since larger companies are subject to stricter public funding rules, the company was not entitled to the total funding. 
Similar cases were found in Bulgaria and Hungary. 
In the case of a significant number of transactions affected by errors, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors beforerequesting approval from the Commission. 
If this information had been used to correct errors before the expenditure was declared to the Commission, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 3.9 %. 
The Court's auditors also noted that financial instruments continued to recorddisbursement rates to final beneficiaries in 2013. 
The Funds concerned support companies or urban development projects through equity investments, loans or guarantees. 
The Funds will be provided with funds when their legal structure has been created and then use these funds to support projects. 
In total, 940 financial instruments have been set up in 25 Member States, endowed with around EUR 12.6 billion. 
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ? The Commission should require Member States to confirm in their management declarations theeffectiveness of the primary controls carried out by the managing authority and the certifying authority. ? The Commission should, as required by the Financial Regulation, carry out a thorough assessment of the anhal-likeproblem related to the primary controlscarried outby public authorities in theMember States during the programming period 2007-2013. ? The Commission should analyse the reasons for the frequency of non-compliance with the EUruleson State aid. ? The Commission shouldreduce the persistent delays in disbursement of EUfunds through financialinstruments. Want to know more? 
Full information on the Court's auditofEU expenditure in the area of regional policy, transport and energy can be found in Chapter 5 of the2013 Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget. 
A closer look at the revenue and expenditure sectors Employment and Social Affairs 16.2 billion euro the subject of our audit 26 The audit related to employment and social affairs, which forms part of the EU's cohesion policy. 
The main objectives of expenditure in this area are the fight againstunemployment, the development of human resources and the promotion of integration into the labour market. 
Employment andsocial policies are mainly implemented through the European Social Fund (ESF): 98 % of the payments made in this area of expenditure in 2013 were borne by this Fund. 
The ESF will support investment in human capital in the form of training and other employment measures. 
In a private school in Portugal, the full salary of the school director was charged to the EU project, although he also had to carry out other tasks. 
In addition, the salary co-financing ceiling has not been respected. 
Similar findings were also found in projects in Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom. 
In the case of a significant number of transactions affected by errors, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error beforerequesting approval from the Commission. 
If this information had been used to correct errors before the expenditure was declared to the Commission, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 1.8 %. 
27 At the Court's recommendation and with the aim of reducing the likelihood of errors and administrative burdens for project promoters, the application of lump sums and flat rates was extended in 2009 instead of the reimbursement of "actual costs". 
In its 2013 audit, the Court did not detectany quantifiable errors specifically related to the application of lump sums and flat rates. 
This suggests that projects whose costs are reported using such payment options are less flawed. 
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ? The Commission should encourage Member States to step up controls on procurement rules, costs not related to the project, or projects without EUaddedvalue. ? The Commission should ensure that Member States address the problem that EUprojectscharge personnel costs at higher rates than projects financed by national funds. ? The Commission should ensure that Member States have taken into account all the possibilities of simplification provided for inthe European Structural and Investment Funds Regulations 2014-2020. Want to know more? 
Full information on the Court's audit ofEUexpenditure in the field of employment and social affairs can be found in Chapter 6 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EUbudget for the 2013 budget. 
28 This area of expenditure covers expenditure on external relations, development and humanitarian aid, as well as for actions in favour ofcandidate and candidate countries. 
Development projects are spread across more than 150 countries around the world, and implementation institutions have significantdifferences in their size and experience. 
Funding from EUfundingis conditional on compliance with the conditions laid down in specific financing agreements, as well as compliance with otheradvances, such as tenderingand procurement procedures. 
The expenditure is managed either directly by the Commission's Directorates-General - through the central Commission services in Brussels or bytheEU delegations in the beneficiary countries - or jointly with international organisations. 
Yes Estimated error rate: 2.6 % (2012: 3.3 %) Control systems examined: Most of the errors concerned ineligible expenditure incurred at the level of final beneficiaries, such asexpenditure other than half of the eligibility period, inclusion of ineligible expenditure inproject costs (e.g. VAT, unjustified personnel costs and overheads) and expenditure not supported by adequate supporting documents. 
The Commission validated pre-accession expenditure for a total of EUR 150 million, although it was not confirmed by evidence that the expenditure was incurred and eligible. 
The validated amounts were basedon estimates owning missions rather than on costs incurred, paid and accepted,supported by supporting documents. 
Following the Court's detection of this systematic error, the Commission corrected the transactions in the accounts in question. 
Example: The Commission signed an agreement of 9.5 million euros with the United Nations Social Development Programme in Moldova. 
In 2013, the Commission accepted contracts worth 1.8 million euro for reimbursement for which no underlying expenditure had yet been incurred. 
29 The Commission's Directorate-General for EuropeAid manages most of the EU'sexpenditurein the field ofexternal action, which is financed from the budget. 
EuropeAid's systems under investigation are assessed as being conditionally effective. 
In May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an Action Plan to address the main shortcomings identified. 
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ? The Commission should ensure that the instructions for staff indicate that the final execution of expenditure is based only on actual expenditure and should not be based on its own estimates. 
The Commission has already agreed to a corresponding amendment to its procedure for the final resolution of expenditure. Want to know more? 
Full information on the Court's audit of the EU's external relations, external assistance and enlargementexpenditurecan be found in Chapter 7 of the2013 Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget plan. 
30 The main component of this spending area is research and innovation projects, which accounted for EUR 7.7 billion in payments in 2013. 
The other internal policies covered a number of policy objectives, including education and culture, security, migration and measures to address the consequences of the financial crisis. 
The majority of the expenditure ismanaged directly by the Commission. 
Yes Estimated error rate: 4.6 % (2012: 3.9 %) Control systems examined: With most payments in this area of expenditure, the Commission reimburses costs declaredby beneficiaries in project cost statements. 
Errors arise when beneficiaries report ineligible costs that are not detected by the control systems prior to reimbursement by the Commission. 
35 % of the estimated error rate is due to incorrectly calculated or ineligible personnel costs. 
For example, the estimated and not actual staff costs and working time not spent on the project are claimed. 
Apart from non-compliance with expenditure rules, the reimbursement of ineligible costs is also hindering the successful implementation of the policy objectives and therefore limits the added value provided by EU funding (see example). 
Example: Ineligible expenditure reduces EU addedvalueThe EU provides funding to ensure efficient and effective controls at the EU'sexternal borders. 
We examined a project in Spain that consisted of the purchase of four helicopters to be used 75 % for the surveillance and control of the external borders. 
However, the Court found that only 25 % of the operating hours of helicopters accounted for this purpose. 
As a result, the EU should have paid only 25 % and not the 75 % of the cost of helicopters actually covered. 
31 In the framework of the control system for research expenditure, the Commission controls progress reports and cost statements on supported projects before payments are made. 
We found that the Commission does not always apply the procedures in a uniform manner, which can affect the efficiency of the programmes and increase the administrative burden on beneficiaries. 
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ? The Commission should provide the beneficiaries and authorities in the Member States with up-to-date, coherent and clear guidance on the eligibility rules and control rules for the newresearchprogrammes (Horizon 2020) and other internal policies. ? The Commission should make its control activities more risk-oriented by focusing audits on high-risk beneficiaries (e.g. with EUfundingless experienced entities) and reduce the burden of controls on lower-risk beneficiaries. 
Want to know more? 
Full information on the Court's auditof EU expenditure in the field of research and other internal policies can be found in Chapter 8 of the2013 annual report on the implementation of the EU budget. 
32 Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 10.6 billion euros The subject of our audit Administrative expenditure and related expenditure covers the expenditure of the EU institutions and other bodies. 
These are the Commission, Parliament, the European External Action Service (EEAS), the European Council and the Council of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economicand Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the Data Protection Supervisor. 
Expenditure on staff (salaries, allowances and pensions) accounts for 60 % of the expenditure area; the remaining share is spent on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology. 
The results of the Court's audits at the agencies and other decentralised bodiesof the European Union will be dealt with in specific annual reports, including a summary. 
No Estimated error rate: 1.0 % (2012: 0.0 %) Control systems examined: Effective The investigation of most control systems did not reveal any serious deficiencies. 
However, the Court notes that payments of salaries and allowances by the Commission and the EEAS repeatedly occur. Similarly, the procurement procedures ofthe EU Delegations (under the EEAS) show weaknesses. 
Our recommendations The Court recommends: ? The Commission and the EEAS should take further steps to ensure that the parts of the personnel files with an impact on the payment of salaries and allowances are up-to-date. ? The EEAS should support and guide the EUdelegationsin relation to procurement procedures. 
Full information on the Court's audit of administrative expenditure and related expenditure can be found in Chapter 9 of the2013 Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget. 
European Development Fund (EDF) 2,6 billion euro subject to our audit 33 Under the EDF, the European Union grants funding for development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP)countries and overseas countries andregions (OCTs). 
It also aims to promote sustainable development and the integrationofACP countries and OCTs into the global economy. 
The EDFs are financed by the Member States. They are subject to their own financial rules and are managed by the European Commission outside the general budget of the EU. 
The environment in which EDF-funded external assistance is implemented is at high risk, in particular because the activities are highly dispersed geographically and the partner countries do not have sufficient institutional and administrative capacity. 
Our findings reliability of the accounts of the EDFs: The annual accounts of the EDFs for 2013 represent the financial and financial position of the EDFs, the results of their operations, their cash flows andthechanges in net assets as a whole. 
No Control systems examined: Conditionally effective EDFcommitments are materially affected by errors? 
Yes Estimated error rate: 3.4 % (2012: 3.0 %) The failure to comply with procurement rules was the cause of around half of the estimated error rate (see example). 
Another significant source of error is the lack of evidence to substantiate expenditure. 
Example: Failure to comply with the procurement rules by the beneficiary We audited a call for tenders on IT equipment for a company information centre; the funding came from a programme to support microand small enterprises. 
It was found that the contract was not awarded to the tenderer with the lowest price, although the lowest price was the award criterion. 
The error was not detected by the auditor who audited the programme under the relevant framework contract with the Commission. 
34 EDFs also provide budget support where paymentsgo directly to the budget of a developing country, provided that specific conditions are met. 
We found errors in transactions combinedwith budget support for which the fulfilment of the conditions had been misassessed and the incorrect exchange rate was applied for the conversion of the payment into the local currency. 
The Commission's Directorate-General for EuropeAid manages not only the bulk of the external aid expenditure from the EUbudget, but also almost allexpenditure under the European Development Fund (EDF). 
EuropeAid's systems under investigation are assessed as being conditionally effective. 
However, in May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an Action Plan to address the main deficiencies identified. 
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ? The Commission should recover interest on pre-financing. ? The Commission should revise the quantification of the benefits of the checks carried out. ? The Commission shouldreport on progress in the implementation of the action plan aimed at addressing deficiencies in the control system. 
Full information on the Court's audit of the European Development Funds can be found in the annual report on activities under the eighth, ninth and tenthEuropean Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2013. 
Background information 35 The audit approach at a glance The Court's audit opinions in the context of the statement of assurance are based on objective evidenceobtained, in particular, from audits carried out in accordance with international audit principles. 
The EU budget is complex. 
The Commission's Directorates-General annuallyarranges for entries for dogs based on data from many different sources (including Member States). 
The Court examines whether the accounting procedures are functioning properly and that the resulting accounting data are fully, correctly recorded and properly presented. ? Assessment of the accounting system to determine whether it provides a solid basis for reliable (complete and accurate) data. ? Verification of the main accounting procedures to determine whether they function correctly. ? Analytical audits of accounting data to determine, whether they are coherent and appear plausible. ? Direct audit of a sample of accounting entries in order to determine whether the underlying advances areactually present and correctly recorded. ? Audit of the annual accounts to determine whether they represent the financial situation appropriately. In order to ensure that errors are properly assessed and that the errors are properly assessed, the relevant rules are assessed in accordance with therelevant rules? ? The statistical methods are used to draw samples from all parts of the EUbudgetof transactions that serve as a basis for in-depth audits of the Court's auditors. ? Thetransactions recorded in the sample are examined in detail, usually on the spot at the endrecipients (e.g. a farmer, a research organisation, a company that carries out publicly writtenconstruction work or provides servicesto be properly assessed bymeans of an error. 
1 Payments recognised as expenditure are interim payments, final payments and advances settled. 
As part of the implementation of the EU budget, millions of payments are made to beneficiaries within the EU and in the rest of the world. 
Most of this expenditure is managed by the Member States. 
In order to obtain the necessary evidence, the Court carries out direct auditsof revenue and expenditure covering payments and assesses the systems used to manage and control payments. 
Further information on the audit process with a view to drawing up the Statement of Assurance can befoundin Annex 1.1 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013. 
Background information 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the independent audit body of the European Union based in Luxembourg. 
It employs around 900 staff ofallEU nationalities, composed of auditors and staff in horizontal services. 
Since its establishment in 1977, it has raised awareness of theimportance of EU financialmanagement and contributes to improving it. 
The Court's audit reports and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain. 
Our results will be used to hold the EU's financial management bodies accountable, especiallyin the context of the discharge procedure. 
This is mainly the Commission, but it also affects the other EU institutions, bodies and agencies. 
In shared management, Member States also play an important role. 
Our main tasks: ? Audits of accounting and compliance audits, mainly with regard to the statement of assurance; ? performance audits on topics selected in such a way that we achieve the greatest possibleimpact with our work; ? Opinions on legislation related to budgetary management and other important issues. 
We strive to use our resources to strike a balance between our different areas of activity in order to achieve sound results and appropriate coverage of the different areas of the EUbudget. 
Background information 38 Our results We present the following results: annual reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds; the annual reportsmainly comprise the audit opinions in the framework of the Statement of Assurance and the resultsof the hearing, and will be published annually in November; ? specific annual reports containing audit opinions on the accounts of the various EU agencies and bodies; 53 reports will be published in 2014; ? Special reports on selected audit topics, which will be published throughout the year; these are mainly performance audits; approximately 25 reports will be published in 2014; ? Opinions used by the European Parliament and the Council in the adoptionof EU legislation with a significant impact on financial management; six opinions are to be published in 2014; ? Landscape analyses of selected areas of EUpolicy, where major challenges and long-term trends are analysed; two such analyses are to be published in 2014; ? the Annual Activity Report, which contains information and explanations on our activities inthe year in question. 
With our work, we contribute to the education and transparency of the EU'sfinancial managementby providing assurance on the state of financial management and bymaking recommendations for further improvements. 
This is done in the interests of the citizens of the European Union. 
Information on the Court's audits at the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union can be found in the specific annual reports for the financial year 2013available on the Court's website. 
The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the EU - Guardian of EU finances In its annual reports on the EU budget and on the European Development Funds, the Court issues an audit opinion (declaration of reliability) on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. 
This brief information provides an overview of the main findings and conclusions. 
The full text of the reports is available on the Court's website and will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
2 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter "the Agency"), located in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1. 
The Agency's main task is to assist national regulatory authorities in carrying out the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, to coordinate the actions of those authorities. 
Under the Energy Wholesale Market Integrity and Transparency Regulation (REMIT Regulation)2, the Agency, together with national regulatory authorities, will be given additional tasks with regard to the monitoring of the European wholesale energy market3. 
As regards the financial year 2011, the period from 8 March to 31. Reviewed in December 2011. 
STATEMENTS ON DECLARATION OF ASSURANCE 3. The audit approach includes analytical audit procedures,the direct audit of transactions and an assessment of key controls of the Agency's supervisory and control systems. 
1 2 3 OJ 
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011, OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1. 
L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1. For information purposes, the Agency's responsibilities and activities are summarised in the Annex. 
3 DECLARATION OF ASSURANCE 4. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we have the Agency's annual accounts4 consisting of the "financial statements"5 and the "reports on budget implementation"6 for the 31st year. The financial year ended December 2011 and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying those accounts. 
Responsibility of management 5. Within its Functional Authorising Officer,Directorate, Budget in revenue and expenditure in accordance with the Agency's Financial Regulation and within the limits of the authorised appropriations7. 
The Director shall be responsible for the establishment8 of the organisational structure and of the internal management and control systems and procedures necessary to enable the preparation of a financial statement9 free of material, intentional or unintended misrepresentations 4 5 6 7 8 9 The annual accounts shall be accompanied by a report on the financial management and management of the financial year concerned, containing additional information on budgetary and financial management. 
The financial statements include the balance sheet and the statement of economic results, the cash flow table, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of key accounting policies and other explanations. 
The accounts and accounts of the Agencies shall be governed by the corresponding rules laid down in Chapters 1 and 2 of Title VII of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002, as last amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2008 (OJ L 164, 31.12.2008, p. 
ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012 
Responsibility of the examiner 6. To provide a declaration on the reliability of the Agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions to the European Parliament and the Council10. 
7. The Court has carried out its auditinconsistent with the International Standards on Auditing as well as the professional behaviour requirements of the IFAC and the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions of INTOSAI. 
According to these standards, the Court is required to plan and carry out the audit in such a way as to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material misstatements and whether the transactions underlying it are legal and regular. 
8. A final audit includes the implementation of audit procedures in order to obtain audit evidence of the values and other information contained in the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying it. 
The selection of the audit procedures is at the discretion of the auditor. This includes the assessment of the risks of material, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation in the financial statements and material - intended or unintentional - breaches of the European Union legislation in the underlying transactions. 
When assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account the internal control system relevant to the preparation and proper presentation of the financial statements and the 5 supervisory and control systems set up to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in order to plan audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
An audit shall also include the assessment of the adequacy of the accounting policies applied and the reasonableness of the estimated values determined in the accounts and the assessment of the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
9. The Court of Auditors' view thatthe evidence obtained is sufficient and suitable to serve as the basis for the following audit opinions. 
Audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts 10.According to the Court's assessment, the Agency's annual accounts11 present its assets and financial position at 31. In all material respects, the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its Financial Regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer12, are appropriate in all material respects. 
11 12 The final accounts were drawn up on 19 June 2012 and received by the Court on 2 July 2012. 
The final accounts consolidated with the Commission's annual accounts will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by 15 November of the following year. 
The annual accounts can be found at the following Internet addresses: http://eca.europa.eu or http://ww.acer.europa.eu/. 
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS). 
In addition, the payment rate was low in terms of commitments of 41 % for Titles II and Title III. 
The high level of unused appropriations and transfers made, as well as the low payment rate, are indicative of shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the budget and constitute a breach of the budgetary principle of annuality. 
Other NOTES 14.The transparency of recruitment procedures needs to be improved. 
For example, the vacancy notices did not specify the maximum number of candidates to be included in a reserve list and did not contain any notice of appeal. 
7 the written and oral examinations and their respective weightings not prepared before the examination of the applications. 
15.In 2011, the Agency paid daily subsistence allowances of EUR 10 839 to experts seconded who were nationals of the country in which the Agency is established. 
That payment infringes the rules on the secondment of national experts adopted by the Management Board of the Agency, according to which only temporary staff who are not nationals of the Member State in which they are employed are entitled to subsistence allowances. 
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Louis GALEA, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting on 5 September 2012. 
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012 
8 Annex Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Areas of competence of the Union under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) competences of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council); Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Competencies and activities The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt measures for the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the establishment and functioning of the internal market. 
The Union's energy policy, in a spirit of solidarity between Member States in the context of the establishment or functioning of the internal market, shall pursue the following objectives, taking into account the need to preserve and improve the environment: ensuring the functioning of the energy market; ensuring the security of energy supply in the Union; promoting energy efficiency and energy savings and developing new and renewable energy sources and (d) promoting the interconnectivity of energy networks. 
The European Parliament and the Council shall adopt, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, the measures necessary to achieve the objectives. 
Those measures shall be adopted after consulting the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. 
The purpose of the Agency is to assist national regulatory authorities in carrying out the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, to coordinate their actions. 
Tasks - Complementation and coordination of the work of national regulatory authorities, - Participation in the development of rules for European networks, - subject to certain conditions, making binding individual decisions on the modalities for access and operational security of cross-border infrastructures, - Advising the European institutions on energy-related issues, - Monitoring and reporting on developments in energy markets; - drawing up a proposal to the European Commission on the annual compensation for cross-border infrastructure under the ITC mechanism; - cooperation with national regulatory authorities, ESMA, the competent financial authorities of the Member States and, where appropriate, national competition authorities to monitor wholesale energy markets, - Assessment of the functioning and transparency of different categories of marketplaces and different types of trade; - Make recommendations to the Commission on market rules, records of transactions, trade orders, standards and procedures that could improve the integrity of the market and the functioning of the internal market. 
Board of Directors Composition: The Management Board consists of two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council. 
Each member has one alternate. 
Tasks: The Management Board shall adopt the Agency's annual work programme, establish its budget and monitor its implementation. 
Director Governance The Director will be appointed following a favourable opinion of the Board of Regulators based on ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012 
Board of Regulators Composition: The Board of Regulators shall include a senior representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a non-voting representative of the Commission. 
Each member shall have an alternate appointed by the respective national regulatory authority of each Member State. 
Tasks: - The Board of Regulators shall submit opinions to the Director on opinions, recommendations and decisions which are considered to be adopted. - He shall lead the Director in the performance of his duties. - He shall give the Management Board an opinion on the candidate to be appointed Director. - Approves the Agency's work programme. 
External control of the Court of Auditors. 
Discharge authority Parliament on recommendation from the Council. 
Staff at 31. December 2011 Approved: 40, occupied: 39, other posts: 12. Total: 39, of which - Operational activities: 28, - administrative and support activities: 11. - 5 framework guidelines (electricity: Grid connection framework guideline, capacity allocation framework guideline and congestion management framework guideline and system operation framework guideline; Gas: Framework guideline on capacity allocation mechanisms for the European Gas Transmission System and Framework Guideline to compensate for quantity deviations in transmission systems; Organisation of public consultations in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009, including workshops; - Opinions on the statutes, the list of members and the rules of procedure of the European Network of Transmission System Operators (ENTSO Electricity) and the European Network of Transmission System Operators (ENTSO Gas); - Adoption of the opinion on the Union-wide 10-year network development plan of ENTSO Gas; - Adoption of the opinion on the 2012 work programme of ENTSO for Electricity; - Data requirements and monitoring indicators in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009; official start of operations (3 March 2011) and establishment of the Agency's website; - Establishment of two working groups of the Agency (Electricity and Gas Working Group) and adoption of the rules governing the functioning of the working groups; - Taking over the coordination role for the activities of regional initiatives by the European Regulators Group for Electricity and Gas (ERGEG); - New responsibilities for the Agency by the entry into force of the Regulation on wholesale energy market integrity and transparency on 28. December 2011; Seminar on 28 November 2011; - Provide guidance on the application of the definitions set out in Article2 of the REMIT Regulation (20. December 2011); Set up a web platform to receive notifications of late disclosure of inside information or alleged breaches of market abuse bans by market participants and persons who arrange for professional transactions. 
Source: Information from the Agency. ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012 
Acer - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ACER - Agence de coopération des Régulateurs de l'énergie ANTWORTEN DER AGENTUR 13. In the first year of her work, ACER had to hire a large part of its staff, which was a problem and caused vacancies to be filled late; this was clearly reflected in the utilisation rate of the Agency's budget. 
This also affected the estimated procurement needs and had the effect of concentrating procurement procedures on the end of the year; as a result, high carry-overs were needed to meet the legal and budgetary commitments entered into. 
As most posts were filled at the beginning of 2012, ACER is now in a much better position to carry out the tasks assigned to it and to carry out the related budget. 
14. Acer takes note of the justification of the Court's observations and has already taken remedial action. 
15. Acer takes note of the justification of the provisional finding and has already suspended the daily subsistence payments to Slovenian SNEs. 
2 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agencyforcooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency", also known as "ACER"), established in Ljubljana by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1. 
Under the Energy Wholesale Market Integrity and Transparency Regulation (REMIT Regulation)2, additional tasks have been delegated to the Agency and national regulatory authorities with regard to the monitoring of the European wholesale energy market3. 
STATEMENTS ON DECLARATION OF ASSURANCE 2. The audit approach includes analytical audit procedures,the direct audit of transactions and an assessment of key controls of the Agency's supervisory and control systems. 
DECLARATION OF ASSURANCE 3. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court examined: 1 2 3 OJ 
L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1. It will give the Agency an important role in monitoring wholesale energy markets in Europe. 
For information purposes, Annex II summarises the Agency's responsibilities and activities. 
Responsibility of management 4. The management responsibleforthe establishment and appropriate overall presentation of the annual accounts of the Agency and of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions6: management's responsibility for the Agency's annual accounts shall include the design, establishment and maintenance of an internal control system, as is necessary for the preparation and proper presentation of financial statements free of material, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation, the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies based on the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer7 and 4 5 6 7 The annual accounts include the balance sheet and the statement of economic results, the cash flow table, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of the main accounting methods and other explanations. 
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, where applicable, the International Accounting Standards (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. 
8 Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013. 
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts after the Agency's accounting officer draws it up on the basis of all available information and draws up a note accompanying the annual accounts, in which he declares, inter alia, that he has reasonable assurance that the annual accounts provide a true and fair view of the Agency's financial position in all material respects. 
Responsibility of the examiner 5. On the basis of its audit,the European Parliament and the Council8 provide a statement on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. 
According to these standards, the Court is required to plan and carry out the audit in such a way as to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 
The selection of the audit procedures is at the discretion of the auditor. 
When assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and proper presentation of the financial statements and the supervisory and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and shall plan audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
Audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts 8. After-assessmentofthe annual financial statementsofthe Agency,their assets and financial position at 31 December 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended that date in accordance with its Financial Regulation and by the accounting officer of ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 
6 Commission adopts accounting rules in all material respects as a whole. 
10.The following observations do not call into question the Court's audit opinions. 
11.The Agency has carried over 1.9 million euro and 56 % of the total appropriations committed under Title II (Agency Buildings and related costs). These transfers are mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation. 
This is an operational, multi-annual activity that would have been entered under Title III of the budget. 
12.In addition, the Agency has carried over 3.1 million euro or 91 % of the total committed appropriations under Title III, also in connection with the implementation of the REMIT Regulation. 
The extraordinarily high carry-over rate for Title III is mainly due to an additional increase of around 3 million euro by an amending budget approved on 31 October 2013. 
At the end of the year, the Agency had EUR 5.5 million in cash, including around 3 million from the late adopted ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 7 amending budget (see paragraph 12). 
Nevertheless, the average cash balance during the year was significantly higher than justified by operational needs. 
Follow-up OF THE NOTES FROM previous years 14.Annex I provides an overview of the corrective measures taken following comments from previous years. This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Milan Martin CVIKL, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting on 8 July 2014. 
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 
1 REPORT OF THE NOTES FROM previous years ANNEX I year Court's comment on the corrective action (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 2011 The high level of unused appropriations and the carry-overs made, as well as the low payment rate, are indicative of shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the budget and constitute a breach of the budgetary principle of annuality. 
Completed 2011 The transparency of recruitment procedures needs to be improved. 
In addition, the questions for the written and oral examinations and their respective weighting were not elaborated before the examination of the applications. 
Completed 2012 To cover the higher school fees, the Agency grants a special allowance to staff whose children attend primary or secondary school in addition to the educational allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations1. 
In 2012, the total special allowances amounted to around EUR 23 000. 
They are not covered by the Staff Regulations and are therefore unlawful. 
Completed ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 
1 2 year ECA comment on the corrective action (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 2012 The Agency has carried over commitments of 1.7 million euro (81 % of the total appropriations committed under Title II) to the following financial year for Title II (Agency Building and related costs). 
These transfers are mainly related to the ongoing implementation of the REMIT Regulation. 
Since these implementing measures are part of the Agency's operational activities, they would have actually been included in the budget under Title III. 
Completed 2012 In 2012, the Agency carried out 20 transfers within the budget of around EUR 1 million. 43 budget lines were affected. 
Completed 2012 The Agency had EUR 4.2 million in cash at the end of the year, including the 2011 budget surplus of 1.6 million euro, which resulted from an excessive call for funds in 2011. The amount in question was recovered by the Commission in January 2013. 
In the course of 2012, the recruitment procedures examined showed weaknesses with an impact on the transparency and equal treatment of candidates: The questions for oral and written examinations were not specified before the examination of the applications. 
The conditions for admission to the written and oral tests and for inclusion in the list of suitable candidates were not sufficiently precise and insufficient measures were taken to ensure the anonymity of candidates participating in written tests. 
Article 3 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations provides for twice the basic allowance of EUR 252.11, i.e. EUR 505.62. 
ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 
1 ANNEX II Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Areas of competence of the Union under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) competences of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council); Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Competencies and activities The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt measures for the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the establishment and functioning of the internal market. 
Governance structure on incentives and a common methodology for assessing the higher risks associated with investments in electricity and gas transmission infrastructures. 
The Management Board consists of two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council. 
The Management Board shall adopt the Agency's annual work programme and adopt its budget. 
Ensure that the Agency fulfils its mission and performs the tasks assigned to it in accordance with the Agency Regulation. 
The Director shall be appointed by the Management Board on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the Commission, following a favourable opinion of the Board of Regulators. 
Composition The Board of Regulators shall consist of a senior representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a non-voting representative of the Commission. 
Each member shall have an alternate appointed by the respective national regulatory authority of each Member State. 
Responsibilities - The Board of Regulators shall submit opinions to the Director on opinions, recommendations and decisions which are considered to be adopted. - He shall lead the Director in the performance of his duties. - It shall deliver an opinion to the Management Board on the candidate to be appointed Director. - Approves the Agency's work programme. 
External control of the European Court of Auditors. 
Budget 2013 (2012) 11.9 (7.2 million euro). Staff at 31. December 2013 (2012) Posts foreseen in the establishment plan: 49 (43), of which at 31. December occupied: 49 (42). 
Other staff: 20 (14). Total number of staff: 69 (57). This includes - operational activities: 41 (34), - Administrative activities: 28 (23). - Frame guideline (gas: Framework guideline on rules for harmonised transmission charge structures); Organisation of public consultations in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009, including workshops; - Network codes a) seven reasoned opinions on network codes (electricity: Longer-term capacity allocation network code, system operation network code, network code for operational planning, network code on load-frequency control and reserves, network code for customer connection; Gas: Network Code on Compensation and Network Code on Interoperability and Data Exchange); four qualified majority recommendations on network codes (all on electricity: Network code on connection conditions for all power plants, network code on capacity allocation and congestion management; The Network Code on Operational Security and the Network Code for Operational Planning; 2 Funds made available to the Agency for 2013 (indications for 2012) Products and services in 2013 ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 
Source: Annex provided by the Agency. 
Acer - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ANTWORT DER AGENTUR 11. As the Court noted, this deficiency has already been corrected by the Agency for subsequent commitment appropriations related to the implementation of REMIT entered in the operational budget lines under Title III. 
12. As the auditors already acknowledged, the high transfer rate was due to delays in the implementation of REMIT. 
This delay was due to the fact that DG ENER's transfer of the necessary additional funds was only approved in October 2013 and that the Agency received the funds at the beginning of November 2013. 
However, the Agency has succeeded in successfully completing all procurement procedures planned for the implementation of REMIT by December 2013; the related expenditure will be incurred in 2014. 
13. Due to a budgetary adjustment, the balance at the end of the year included the EUR 3 million received only late in the year; the remaining amount was intended to cover all legal obligations, in particular in relation to REMIT, for which commitments were made towards the end of 2013. 
The cash forecast tool introduced in 2014 will enable better cash management in the future. ACER - DE 
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/17 REPORT on the annual accounts of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, together with the Agency's reply (2016/C 449/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1). 
The main task of the Agency is to support national regulatory authorities in fulfilling the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and to coordinate, where necessary, the measures taken by those authorities. 
Within the framework of the Ordinance on the Integrity and Transparency of the Energiegro§Handelsmarkt (REMIT Regulation) (2), the Agency and the national regulatory authorities were entrusted with additional tasks with regard to the monitoring of the European Energy Gro§Trade Market. 
2. The table contains the main figures for the Agency (3). 
Table Main figures on the Agency's budget (million euro) Personnel at 31. 1. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
EXCERPTS TO THE RELIABILITY COLLECTION 3. The Court's inspection approach includes analytical testing procedures, direct screening of advances and an assessment of key controls of the Agency's surveillance and control systems. 
2014 10,9 72 2015 11,3 80 REQUIREMENT 4. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court examined the following: a) the annual accounts of the Agency, consisting of the annual accounts(4) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (5) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2015; (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts. 
Responsibility of management 5. Management is responsible for the preparation and proper presentation of the Agency's annual accounts as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying assets (6): (1) OJ 
L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1. (2) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
The Agency will play an important role in the monitoring of energy wholesale trade in Europe. 
(3) Further information on the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.acer.europa.eu. 
(6) Articles 39 and 50 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013 
C 449/18 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 DE a) Management's responsibility for the annual accounts of the Agency includes the design, establishment and maintenance of an internal control system, as is necessary for the preparation and proper presentation of annual accounts, which are free from material intentional or unintentional misrepresentations, the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies based on the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer(7) and the determination of recorded values in the accounts that are acceptable under the circumstances given. 
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts after the Agency's accounting officer has drawn up it on the basis of smtable available information and draws up an accompanying note to the annual accounts, stating, inter alia, that the Agency's financial position is adequate to ensure that the annual accounts provide, in all material respects, an image of the Agency's financial position, as appropriate. 
Responsibility of Prfers 6. On the basis of its scrutiny, the Court's task is to provide the European Parliament and the Council (8) with an explanation of the eligibility of the invoice, as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
According to these standards, the Court is required to plan and carry out the inspection in such a way that sufficient certainty is obtained as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material misrepresentation and the underlying claims are legal and orderly. 7. An inspection involves the execution of inspections in order to obtain proof of proof of the value and other information contained in the annual accounts, as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
In accordance with Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (9), the Court took into account the audit work of the independent external authority to the Agency's annual accounts when preparing this report and explaining the eligibility. 
8. The Court considers that the inspection evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as a basis for its eligibility. 
Judgment on the exclusiveness of accounting 9. According to the Court's assessment, the Agency's annual accounts present its merging and financial position as at 31. In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, are appropriate in all material respects. 
11. 
(7) (8) (9) The following observations do not call into question the Court's rulings. 
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, where applicable, the International Accounting Standards (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. 
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013. 
De 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/19 NOTES TO Budget 12. The Agency allocated 1.36 million euro and 59 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2014: 1.57 million euros and 62 % respectively. 
These transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (1.1 million euros), a complex multi-annual operational activity with regard to the integration and transparency of the energy wholesale trading market. 
In addition, the agency committed 0.79 million euros or 35 % (2014: 0.98 million euro or 41 % of the appropriations committed under Title II (Administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. These reports mainly concerned studies and services not yet provided in 2015. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 13. Annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Baudilio TOM MUGURUZA, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting on 13 September 2016. 
FR the Court of Auditors Vtor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Prsident 
C 449/20 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 DE Court's comment The Agency committed 1.57 million euro or 62 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2013: 3.1 million euros and 91 % respectively. 
These transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation, a complex multi-annual operational activity on which the Implementing Regulation was only on 17. 1 December 2014 (1) was adopted. 
In addition, the agency committed EUR 0.98 million or 41 % (2013: 1.9 million euro or 56 % of the appropriations committed under Title II (Administrative Expenditure) to the following financial year. These reports mainly concerned studies on the implementation of the REMIT Regulation and the year-end of the year. 
In October 2013, the Agency received an additional EUR 3 million through an amending budget for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation, which it committed to 2014. 
In accordance with the Implementing Regulation, however, the REMIT framework will not apply until October 2015. 
Part of the appropriations was used in 2014 for the preparation of the implementation of the REMIT Regulation. 
At the end of 2014, the Agency made two pre-financing payments of EUR 1.56 million for services related to the REMIT Regulation to be made in 2015-2017. In this way, an automatic back payment of unused funds to the Commission was avoided(2). 
Although this allows the Agency to finance its strong REMIT-related activities, this approach is contrary to the budgetary principle of honor. 
In accordance with the Headquarters Agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian Government, a European School is to be established in Slovenia, but this has not yet been done more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement. 
Year 2014 ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years State of the revision (completed/in progress/n.e.) n. e. 2014 2014 n.e.e. pending (1) (2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1348/2014 (OJ 2014 L 14, p. 
In accordance with Article 13 of the EU Financial Regulation, Betrge will only be paid for the next financial year. 
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/21 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 13. The Agency is aware of the amount allocated due to outstanding commitments at the end of the year, mainly due to the long-term nature of the implementation of the REMIT project. 
Given the continuing uncertainty about the annual budget allocation to the Agency, the principle of honor is difficult to reconcile with the unavoidable multi-year character of the REMIT project. 
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/25 REPORT on the annual accounts of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, together with the Agency's reply (2017/C 417/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1). 
The main task of the Agency is to support national regulatory authorities in fulfilling the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and to coordinate, where necessary, the measures taken by those authorities. 
Table Main figures on the Agency's budget (million euro) Personnel at 31. 1. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
Source: Information on the budget published in the OJ. 
2015 11,3 80 2016 15.9 103 PRFUNGSURTEIL 4. We have (a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(4) and the reports on budget implementation (5) for the 31st year. Financial year ending December 2016 and (1) OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1. 
(2) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1). 
(3) Further information on the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.acer.europa.eu. (4) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net concentration, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(5) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as depletions. 
De C 417/26 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 (b) the legality and regularity of the advances underlying these accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 5. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2016 Ending year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2016 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 7. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st In all material respects, payments underpinning the financial year ending December 2016 are legal and regular in all respects. 
Responsibilities of management and those responsible for monitoring 8. In accordance with Articles 310 to 325 TFEU and the financial regulations of the Agency, management is responsible for drawing up and presenting the annual accounts on the basis of internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
This responsibility includes the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures as necessary for the preparation and presentation of an annual financial statement free of material misrepresentations intended or unintentional. 
The management of the agency bears the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts. 
10. The persons responsible for the monitoring are responsible for the supervision of the institution's accounting process. 
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/27 responsibilities of the Prfer for the preparation of the annual accounts and the underlying claims 11. Our objectives are to obtain sufficient certainty as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free from material misrepresentation and the underlying claims are legal and orderly, as well as to the European Parliament and the Council or other relevant discharge requests based on our examination, to provide an explanation about the eligibility of the invoice, as well as the legality and legality of the underlying claims. 
Misrepresentations and understandings may be intended or unintentional and are considered material if they could reasonably be expected, individually or collectively, to influence the economic decisions of users made on the basis of these accounts. 
12. An inspection involves the execution of inspections in order to obtain proof of proof of the value and other information contained in the annual accounts, as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. The selection of the procedures is at the discretion of the Prfer. To that end, the assessment of the risks of material intentional or unintentional misrepresentations in the annual accounts and substantial intentional or unintentional interpretations against the legislation of the European Union leads to the underlying advances. 
When assessing these risks, the Prfer shall take into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and proper presentation of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets in order to plan inspections that are appropriate under the circumstances, but not with the aim of issuing a test opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system. 
A review shall also include the assessment of the adequacy of the accounting policies applied, the reasonableness of the audited values determined by the management in the accounts and the assessment of the overall presentation of the annual accounts. 
13. With regard to revenue, we assess the grant received from the Commission by the Agency and assess, where relevant, its procedures for collecting fees and other revenue. 
14. With regard to expenditure, we examine the payment advances after the expenditure has been settled, recorded and accepted. 
Advance payments are checked after the fund has proven their proper use and the Agency has accepted the evidence by settlement of the advance payment in the same year or even in the same year. 
15. In accordance with Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (6), we took into account the audit work of the independent external authority to the Agency's annual accounts when preparing this report and explaining the eligibility. 
16. The following observations do not call into question the Court's assessment. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 17. In its May 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the urgent need to crank up roles and skills and to analyse the workload of the contracting authority in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures. 
The IAS also concluded that the planning and monitoring of procurement should be significantly improved. 
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. 
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET 18. The Agency allocated EUR 4.9 million or 86 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2015: EUR 1.4 million and 59 % respectively. 
As in previous years, these transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation on the integration and transparency of the energy wholesale trading market(7) and amounted to EUR 4.7 million in 2016 (2015: 1.1 million euros). 
For Title II (Administrative expenditure), the Agency allocated EUR 1 million or 38 % of the committed appropriations to the following financial year (2015: EUR 0.8 million or 35 % respectively. 
19. The increase in appropriations is worrisome and is at odds with the budgetary principle of honorability. 
The transfer rate is directly linked to the conclusion or signature of procurement procedures and contracts in part towards the end of the year, leading to a shift of deliveries and/or payments to the following year. 
In 2016, 98 out of a total of 299 contracts were signed in November and December (EUR 5 976 122.47 and 40 % of the total value of the contracts closed in 2016). 
The Agency may draw up separate budget appropriations in order to better reflect the multi-dimensional nature of the activities and the inevitable distortions between signatures, deliveries and payments. 
(6) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 
(7) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1). 
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Baudilio TOM MUGURUZA, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting on 12 September 2017. 
6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/29 DE Comments by the Court Gem§ to the Headquarters Agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian Government to establish a European School in Slovenia, but this has not yet been done more than four years after the conclusion of the Agreement. 
The Agency allocated EUR 1.36 million and 59 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2014: EUR 1.57 million and 62 % respectively. 
These transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (EUR 1,1 million), a complex multi-annual operational activity in relation to the integration and transparency of the energy wholesale trading market. 
In addition, the Agency amounted to EUR 0.79 million or 35 % (2014: EUR 0.98 million or 41 % of the appropriations committed under Title II (Administrative Expenditure) to the following financial year. These reports mainly concerned studies and services not yet provided in 2015. 
Year 2014 2015 ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years as a revision measure (completed/in progress/existing/e.g.) 
De C 417/30 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 18. The Agency has successfully implemented the measures, as agreed with the IAS. 
Of the six recommendations, two very important and three important ones have already been completed. 
The agency plans to complete the last recommendation by October 2017. 
19. The Agency agrees that due to the multi-year investment linked to the REMIT Regulation, the funds allocated are high and are difficult to comply with the budgetary principle of honor. 
The high budget transfers result from the scheduling of the annual contract cycle, which was set up in 2013, when the Agency received significant additional budgets for the REMIT project at the end of the year. 
Nevertheless, it should be noted that the commitment for the financial year 2016 was implemented at 100 % under the REMIT expenditure chapter. 
The Agency will analyse the implementation of separate budgets for Title III. 
20. The Agency considers that the introduction of separate appropriations for Title III better reflects the multiplicity of some of its activities, in particular in the area of REMIT, provided that the financial resources allocated to the Agency are stable and predictable. 
Official Journal of the European Communities ISSN 0376-9461 C 81 40. 13 March 1997 Issue in German Information number 97/C 81/01 97/C 81/02 97/C 81/03 97/C 81/04 97/C 81/05 97/C 81/05 97/C 81/06 97/C 81/07 Communications and notices Content I Communications Court of Auditors Report on the financial statements and budget management 1995 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop - Thessaloniki), together with the replies of the Centre 1 Report on the Financial Statements and Budgetary Management 1995 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Foundation Dublin), together with the reply of the Foundation 18 Report on the Financial Statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies 27 Report on the Financial Statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (OHIM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation 32 Report on the Financial Statements of the European Training Foundation (ESB-Turin), together with the replies of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EBDD-Lissabon), together with the Agency's replies to the Financial Statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EBDD-Lissabon). 3. 97 I DE | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/1 I (Communications) REPORT on the financial statements and budgetary management of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop - Thessaloniki) (97/C 81/01) (Remarks pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 188c(4) of the EC Treaty) Financial statements of the CEDEFOP FOR THIS AM 31 6 General observations 6 Background 6 Examinations 6 Examinations 6 Examinations 6 Examinations 6 Examinations Discharge to the budget 1994· Financial data Comments on the implementation of the budget segregation of activities Paying agency Transfers and cancellations of appropriations Transfers and cancellations of appropriations Observations to the accounts and balance sheet Revenue (Commission grant): Expenditure V Execution of the Centre to Thessaloniki General remarks Preliminary accommodation Final accommodation Staff: General remarks Personnel: Change the status summary. 
L 39. of 13. 2. 1975, p. 1), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 
2. The Court has adopted the financial statements of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training on 31 December. The financial year ended December 1995. 
In accordance with Article 18(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 
L 181 of 23. 7. 1993, p. 15), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board. 
In accordance with Articles 65, 61 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93, the latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting financial statements in accordance with the financial rules. 
The Court of Auditors is required to audit these financial statements in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
4. The European Council of 29 October 1993 decided to relocate the headquarters of the Cedefop from Berlin to Thessaloniki. 
In order to facilitate this move, certain changes have been made to the Staff Conditions of Employment, some of which were not in line with the applicable V Regulations. 
The exact circumstances are explained in paragraphs 46-66. 
In addition, a number of other cases have been identified where payments were not fully in line with the regulations in force. 
5. On the basis of its audit, the Court can conclude with sufficient certainty that the financial statements for paragraphs 10 11 12 are as at 31. The financial year ending December 1995 is reliable in that they correctly reflect the revenue and expenditure of 1995 and the financial situation at the end of the year. 
Apart from the important exception in the area of expenditure mentioned in the previous paragraph, the underlying transactions were legal and regular as a whole. 
Audit comments General comments Background 6. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 as a European Community satellite body and aims to promote vocational training at Community level. 
Cedefop began its work in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Thessaloniki in 1995. 
7. As defined in that Regulation, it is for the Centre to 'support the Commission in order to promote and develop training and continuous training at Community level', to contribute to the implementation of a common vocational training policy and, in particular, to promote the exchange of information and experience. 
In the field of vocational training, the Centre has in particular the task of "producing documentation, contributing to the further development and coordination of research, ensuring the dissemination of appropriate documentation and information, promoting and supporting initiatives to achieve a coordinated solution (in particular in the harmonisation of training levels and mutual recognition of certificates) and to establish a meeting point for the parties involved". 8. The Centre is headed by a Board of Directors of 48 members (in this context, costs of ECU 334 000 were incurred in 1995). Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75, published on 13 February 1975, 
The Management Board shall elect one Chairperson and three Vice-Chairs from among its members for a period of one year. 
At the time of the audit (May 1996), the Chair of the Administrative Council was chaired by the Director-General of DG XXII - Education, Training, Youth. 
The Director of the Centre shall be appointed by the Commission on the basis of a list of candidates submitted by the Management Board. 
9. In accordance with the basic Regulation, the Director is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Centre, while the Board of Directors has overall responsibility. 
The Management Board shall adopt decisions, adopt the work programme and the annual report, draw up the statement of revenue and expenditure for the preceding year and the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the coming year. 
10. The Commission's role, carried out by representatives of DG XXI I, is not only to represent the Commission within the Management Board, but also to adopt the work programme, to examine the Jah-re Report and the statement of revenue and expenditure, and to forward the estimates of revenue and expenditure to the Council and the European Parliament. 
In accordance with Article 23 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 * of 30 June 1993, all commitments and payments made by the Centre must, prior to the actual payment, receive a reasonable cost. the efficient use of human resources and other resources; C) high quality products that meet the needs of Cedefop customers; a clear and coherent role in the framework of the European Community's vocational training policy. 
Financial data 14. For the 1995 financial year, the Centre had a budget of ECU 16.50 million. 
The commitments made resulted in payments of ECU 10.11 million and transfers to 1996 of ECU 4.67 million, with the balance of ECU 1.72 million cancelled. 
From appropriations carried over from the previous year, ECU 2.16 million was disbursed and ECU 0.29 million was cancelled. 
Annex 1 to this report contains an analysis of the use of the appropriations for the financial year and the appropriations carried over from the 1994 financial year. 
Annex 2 gives an overview of the budgetary accounts for the financial year 1995 and the balance sheet of assets and debts at 31. December 1995. 
Comments on the implementation of the budget separation of activities 15. Following the move to Thessaloniki, until the time of the audit (May 1996), the Zentrum had not yet put in place appropriate procedures to separate the activities of the authorising officer, the accounting officer and the imprest administrator. 
For example, it was observed that the accounting officer took over the imprest administrator. 
Paying Agency 16. The share of payments made without the approval of the financial crisis remains high (60 % in 1995 excluding salaries). 
The strong use of the paying agency procedure is not in line with the spirit of financial rules. 
A more acceptable practice would be to cover only current and low-volume expenditure where the risk of irregularity is comparatively low, through the Paying Agency procedure. 
Transfers within the budget 17. Transfers between different budget lines totalled ECU 922 000 in 1995, i.e. 5.6 % of the initial budget, compared with 10.9 % in 1994. 
No C 81/4 | EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 transfers (ECU 570 000) were carried out in the last two months of 1995, compared with 33 % in 1994. 
18. The Centre did not carry out any transfer of funds between different titles in 1995. 
As a result, the remark made by the Court in the past year has been taken into account (2). 
Transfers and cancellations of appropriations 19. The practice of carrying over large amounts of appropriations already observed in previous years (3) continued to increase in 1995. 
In 1995, only 61 % of the final appropriations were disbursed, compared with 73 % in 1994. 
The share of commitments carried over to 1996 amounted to 28 % (compared to 23 % in 1994). 
The proportion of deferred appropriations was 10 %, compared with 5 % in 1994. 
Table 1 shows, by title, the appropriations carried over from the original 1995 budget and their subsequent use. 
20. The carry-overs in the field of operational expenditure amounted to 53 % of the initial appropriations compared to 40 % in 1994. 
As 8 % of the appropriations for operational expenditure fell, this means that the Centre paid out only 39 % of its 1995 operational budget in 1995. 
At the end of the first quarter of 1996, only 34 % of the appropriations carried over from 1995 within Title 3 had been disbursed. 
21. The high number of transfers within the budget and cancellations, as well as the large amount of transfers to the next financial year, indicate that the work programme has not been carried out as planned and that the principles of economic implementation have been jeopardised. 
This fact and the lack of staff (see paragraphs 42 to 45) will have a serious impact on the implementation of the 1996 budget. 
Comments on the budgetary accounts and the statement of assets revenue(Committee of the Commission) 22. The financial contribution to the general budget of the Communities for the financial year 1995 has been disbursed by the Commission in several instalments. The first instalment of ECU 2 300 000 was paid on 6 February 1995, followed by further instalments of ECU 2 400 000 on 20 April 1995, of ECU 2 500 000 on 28 June 1995, of ECU 2 800 000 on 5 October 1995, of ECU 5 875 000 on 22 November 1995 and ECU 525 000 on 1 January 1995. December 1995. 
As in previous Jah-ren (4), this rhythm of payment is not in line with the Court's annual report for 1994. 
(3) The Court's annual reports on the financial years 1992, 1993 with Article 26 of the Financial Regulation for the Centre, which states that payments are to be made in the first half of each quarter and adapted to actual needs. 
Expenses 23. Following the decision to move the centre to Thessaloniki, a new deputy director was appointed in 1994, who lived and worked in Thessaloniki at that time. 
Staff moved to Berlin and received an installation allowance equal to his dual basic salary. Not even a year later, i.e. after the move of the centrum to Thessaloniki, the same staff member again received an installation allowance equal to twice the basic salary. 
Since the relocation of the centre quickly took place, the stay of the operator concerned in Berlin was only of short duration (11 months); in addition, he spent part of that time in Thessaloniki, receiving full subsistence allowances (including weekends). The Court takes the view that these decisions are not in line with the principle of sound financial management and are contrary to Cedefop. 
24. The contract of another Deputy Direk-tor, who had already moved from Berlin to Madrid in July 1995, was signed by the Board of Directors with effect from 3 1. 
The staff member then received a payment of ECU 71 030. 
The Court considers that this decision of the Board of Directors is not consistent with the principles of economic housekeeping. 
25. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993, authorises the award of a contract by hand if the amount of the contract does not exceed ECU 12 000. 
At least 12 cases have been allocated over an amount higher than ECU 12 000, without complying with the procurement procedure described in Article 45 of the abovementioned regulation. 
26. Almost 40 % of the commitments made under the 'Pilot Studies and Projects' budget line for the 1995 budget year (ECU 300 000) were made in the last two months of 1995. 
An amount of ECU 150 572 was committed to the budget line "Exchange of officials and experts" for the remuneration of an expert who commenced his work at the Cedefop on 1 February 1,996 and for another expert whose contract was on 22 February. It was signed in December 1995. 
These commitments have been overcrowded in order not to allow the appropriations to be forfeited. 
27. Rent for the temporary premises of Cedefop for January. 1996 (ECU 22 750) has already been included in the 1995 budget accounts. 
Since those expenditure relates to the 1996 financial year, they should also have been recorded at the expense of 1996. and 1994. 
The Court urges the Centre to draw up an up-to-date inventory as soon as possible, as required by Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993. 
29. The balance sheet shows, among the outstanding claims from the previous financial year, an outstanding amount of ECU 3 134 for an invoice issued in 1991. 
The Court's comment made last year (5) was not taken into account, although the Centre had given a corresponding assurance in its reply. 
The Court recommends that the Centre write off this amount as long as there is no reason to believe that this amount will be recovered. 
30. At the end of the year, the Centre had remaining treasury amounts of ECU 5.9 million. 
The Centre therefore bears responsibility for managing large amounts of cash, although it has little expertise in this area. 
The Court reiterated last year's remark (6) that this situation should be avoided by making the Commission's quarterly call-off of funds more appropriate to its actual cash needs. - At the same time, the Commission should ensure that it receives a realistic liqui-dity forecast from the Centre before making its payments. 
Transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki General remarks ^B 31. At the European Council of 29 October 1993 it was decided to relocate the headquarters of the Cedefop from Berlin to Thessaloniki in Greece (7). 
32. The actual transfer to Thessaloniki took place in August 1995, and in September 1995 the Centre started operations in Greece. 
According to the Court's calculations, the 1995 budget accounts include some ECU 3 300 000 for expenses related to the move. 
33. Since 1 September 1995, the centre has been housed in a building of the Institute of Agriculture and Industry of Thessaloniki. 
No later than 1 September 1999, the Greek State will provide the Centre with a permanent accommodation building. 
The Centre has signed four agreements (i) of the Court's annual report on the 1994 financial year. 
(6) The Court's annual report on the 1994 financial year. 
(7) Council Decision 93/C 323/01 of 29 October 1993, OJ C 323, 30. 11. 1993, p. 1. net relating to the rent for temporary premises and the construction of the building for permanent accommodation. 
The basic agreement between Cedefop and the Greek State was signed in Thessaloniki on 22 June 1995. 
The three other agreements, including an agreement between the Greek State and the organisation responsible for the entire construction, are part of this basic association. 
Temporary accommodation 34. The provisional building of the Centre shall be subject to an annual rent of ECU 273 000, payable directly to the owner. 
35. Pursuant to Article 1 of the Agreement between the Greek State and the Centre, the Greek State shall make available to Cedefop the building with the temporary premises, including all related installations, from 1 September 1995. 
The Greek authorities are responsible for electrical and electronic cable connections and telephone connections. 
36. When the building was handed over, the Centre did not raise any written objections. 
However, during the first four months in Thessaloniki (September to December 1995), the Centre had to invest ECU 120 000 to make the building with temporary premises functional. 
Among other things, electronic and electrical cable connections and telephone connections had to be installed. 
37. These investments were fully borne by the Centre and the corresponding costs were included in the 1995 budget accounts. 
The agreements do not give a clear indication of who is to take over these investments. 
Final accommodation 38. The Greek State is obliged to provide the Centre with a building for final accommodation by 1 September 1999 at the latest. 
For the construction of the building, Cedefop will pay the Greek State a total amount of ECU 6 879 750, which will be transferred in four equal instalments of ECU 1 719 937 each. 
For the first three tranches, 1 September 1995, 1 September 1996 and 1 September 1997 were set as payment dates. 
The last instalment will be paid at the final handover of the building. 
39. The Centre has not ensured that these payments are linked to the actual progress of the works. 
The Centre will have already paid an amount of ECU 5 159 811 more than two years before the transfer of the building. 
40. The Court recommends that the Centre ensure that interest is used for the first tranche in favour of the V. 
No C 81/6 | EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 41. The Centre should make sure that the Employee Accommodation Organisation (O.E.K.), which is responsible for the overall performance of the work, is perceived by Cedefop. 
Staff: General remarks 42. The establishment plan for 1995 provides for 79 posts, of which 24Ŕ,11LA,15B,26Cund3D.At the time of the audit (May 1996), 37 people actually worked for the Cedefop (14 A, 7 B, 14 C and 2 D), 11 persons had been taken over by other EU institutions, 14 had left the centre before moving to Thessaloniki and 17 persons had been locked to stay in Berlin. 
In 1995 and 1996 many new employees had to be recruited and this development will continue in 1996. 
43. The 17 persons remaining in Berlin are free to work for public and private institutions or other EU institutions, while continuing to receive their salary for a maximum period of 18 months, depending on their seniority at Cedefop (each year of service corresponds to a monthly salary, the minimum period of service must be 6 months). 
At the end of this period, the persons concerned can either move to Thessaloniki or seek another solution. 
This situation leads, inter alia, to the fact that Cedefop cannot fill these 17 posts (May 1996), since they are blocked in the budget and cannot be filled, as the persons concerned may decide at a later time to move to Thessaloniki. 
44. It is unclear what should happen to those from this group of 17 people who do not want to move to Thessaloniki after the fixed duration of their stay in Berlin. 
Article 20 of the Staff Regulations provides as follows: 'The official shall, at the place of his employment or at such distance from that place, take the place that he is not hindered in the performance of his duties'. 
Regardless, three cases of staff who were not willing to move to Thessaloniki have already been brought to the EU Court of Justice. 
45. This situation, in which 17 important items foreseen in the budget plan are blocked by staff who do not currently work for Cedefop, had a significant impact on the Centre's work already in 1995 and will continue to have this in 1996 and 1997. 
Staff: Change of status 46. Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 of 10 February 1975, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995, provides: 'The Centre's staff shall be subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities. 
The Centre shall exercise the powers conferred on the appointing authority vis-ŕ-vis its staff. 
The Management Board of the Centre shall, after consultation with the Commission, adopt the corresponding implementing rules." 
Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 repeals Council Regulation (ECSC, EEC, Euratom) No 1859/76 of 29 June 1976 laying down the employment conditions for staff of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training. 
The amendment was necessary "to make the management of the staff of the single decentralised institutions coherent at Community level" (8). 
However, while the staff of the Centre have been appointed officials, the staff of the other decentralised institutions consist of temporary staff. 
47. The Court examined the changes to employment conditions and other agreements between the Management Board and the staff, and identified a number of irregularities. The most serious irregularities from the Court's point of view are described in paragraphs 49-66. 
48. The Management Board has not submitted these arrangements to the Financial Controller for the purpose of issuing its endorsement. 
Nevertheless, all the financial commitments resulting from these agreements were settled through the Paying Agency procedure and subsequently received the financial controller's endorsement. 
Appointment of staff to officials 49. In connection with the move to Thessalo-niki, the Centre has taken the following measures to adapt the situation of its staff: As a first step, all staff members were appointed as temporary staff on 1 March 1995 (Article 2(b) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities) in the same grade and step as staff in the contractual relationship. - A second step, these staff were recruited as EU officials from 1 April 1995, following an internal competition which had been 'arranged' exclusively on the basis of qualifications. 
Infringement of the Staff Regulations relating to the classification in step of the appointment of the former contract staff of Cedefop at the time of the appointment of the former contract staff of Cedefop at the time. When Cedefop's contract staff were initially appointed as temporary agents on 1 March 1995, none of the staff members could have been classified at a higher step than level 3 (or step 4 at grades A 1 (8) Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 amending Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 on the maintenance of Cedefop, fourth recital. 
13. 3. 97 | EN~1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/7 to A 4, LA 3 and LA 4) (see Article 32 of the Staff Regulations applicable to temporary staff pursuant to Article 15 of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants). 
51. Nevertheless, 33 of the 59 CEDEFOPs appointed as temporary staff were classified at a higher level than level 3. 
In the conduct of the internal competition procedure for the appointment of former contract staff of Cedefop as officials 52. On 1 March 1995, the Centre published 15 interlinked vacancy notices and announcements of internal competitions. 
Following these competitions, all former Cedefop employees were appointed officials. ^w' 53. According to the Staff Regulations, the purpose of a selection procedure is to organise a competition between several candidates in order to fill the vacant position with the most qualified candidate (Article 27(1) of the Staff Regulations). 
A selection process is therefore by definition associated with a competitive situation and the risk of non-existence (10). 
This means that appointments must be regarded as unlawful following a selection procedure in which there is a misuse of powers (n). 
56. The Legal Service of the Commission came to the same conclusion as confirmed by its note of 4 January 1995 (c) (12). 
57. Since the selection procedures in question pursued an objective other than that laid down in the Staff Regulations, it must be held that the selection procedures conducted by Cedefop had misuse of powers, which is why they must be regarded as unlawful. 
Breach of the Staff Regulations in relation to the classification in grade in the appointment of Cedefop's former contract staff as officials 58. In accordance with Article 31 of the Staff Regulations, Cedefop's staff members should have been appointed officials from 1 April 1995 as follows: - Officials of category A or Special Career Language Service (LA): in the initial grade of their category or special career (i.e. A 7 or LA 7) (Article 31(1)); - Officials of other categories: in the incoming remuneration corresponding to the post for which they have been recruited (i.e. ? 1, ? 3 or ? 5; C 1, C 3 or C 5, D 1, D 3 or D 4) (Article 31(2)); - in the case of up to half of the appointments, exceptionally staff members may be appointed in the next higher group; this applies to six posts to be filled within each grade (Article 31, paragraph 2 b). 
59. Contrary to the Staff Regulations, 32 out of 43 staff were named in a higher grade than the initial grade in their category (13). 
(10) Judgment of 29.9.1976, Case 105/75 GI UFFRI DA v RAT, Collection p. 1395. (N) Judgment in GI UFFRI DA, see above. 
(12)A selection procedure by definition entails the risk of non-existence and there are obvious legal reasons why this risk margin should remain. 
(13) Of 17 staff appointed in category A, 13 were appointed at a higher grade than A 7 (the Staff Regulations foresees a limitation to six appointments); all five LA staff were appointed in a higher category than the LA 7 category (the Staff Regulations do not provide for such a possibility); out of 18 members of staff in category C, 12 were appointed at a higher grade than the initial group of staff in their category (the Staff Regulations foresees six appointments); two out of three staff in category D were appointed in a higher grade than in the initial grade of their category (the Staff Regulations do not provide for such a possibility). ^ ^ 54. On the other hand, the 15 selection procedures carried out by Cedefop pursued a completely different purpose, since the aim was to regulate the situation of staff after the move to Thessaloniki. 
No C 81/8 DE Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Non-compliance with obligations relating to the probationary period 60. Before a member of staff can be appointed as an official for a lifetime, he must successfully take a probationary period (Article 34 of the Staff Regulations). Therefore, following the probationary period, an objective ex-post assessment of the official must be carried out on a probationary basis. 
61. Contrary to the Staff Regulations, probation officials were informed beforehand that their final appointment would take place. The probationary period was clearly described in advance as a necessary 'legal formality', which was not really to be regarded as a probation test (paragraph 4.1 of the 'Framework Association'; Letter of 7 February 1995 to probation officials, second subparagraph and paragraph 1(f) of the Annex: The probationary period is a legal formality to be carried out as such by any probationary official). Illegitimate secondment of officials during the probationary period 62. Under Article 38 of the Staff Regulations, only lifetime officials may be seconded to other institutions, i.e. officials who have already successfully completed the probationary period. 
65. This means that a system has been set up in which up to 50 % of the remuneration of staff members is transferred in a currency to which a higher correction coefficient applies (namely the correction coefficient of 111.4 % applicable to Germany than to Thessaloniki (for Greece a correction coefficient of 80.2 %). 
Unequal treatment vis-ŕ-vis other civil servants through the introduction of special rules of action 66. The Commission has committed to the Centre to introduce specific V rules on mobility. 
Those provisions are contrary to the principle of equal treatment of all officials. 
Article 13 of Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 clearly provides that the Staff Regulations and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants are applicable to the staff of the Centre. 
This means that all the provisions contained therein shall apply to staff of the Centre, including Article 29(1)(c), which concerns the takeover of officials by other institutions. 
Thus, there is no justification for special treatment with regard to mobility. Summary | 67. The Court's audit showed that the Centre's work programme was not carried out as planned due to significant staff shortages. 
This led to large transfers and cancellations. 
The audit has also shown that no functioning management and accounting procedures have yet to be put in place. 
68. Two Deputy Directors received remuneration corresponding to the basic salary for four months. These payments and a payment of ECU 71 030 to one of the Deputy Directors were not in line with sound financial management and the interests of the Centre. 
69. At the time of the Court's audit, there were 79 authorised posts, but only 37 people actually worked at the Centre. 
17 staff had been appointed as EU officials, even though they did not want to move to Thessaloniki, nor had they been taken over by another Community institution. 
Conclusion 71. It is understandable that efforts have taken place in connection with the move to Thessaloniki to keep staff with the EU institutions and to reduce the complicated problems associated with the move. 
The problem, however, is that the regulatory framework within which the move had to be carried out was not compatible with adequate treatment of staff of seniority even after the changes to the employment conditions and did not allow for a smooth transfer of Cedefop without under-calculation of his activities. 
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 21 November 1996. 
No C 81/10 | DE1 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 titles 1. Staff Expenditure 2. Material expenditure for the operation of the service 3. Operational expenditure 4. Non-special expenditure Total Final appropriation 7 649 3 991 4 850 10 16 500 • Appropriate appropriations 1274 1097 821 254 2 563 374 10 0 4 668 1725 ANNEX 2 Available appropriations 581 431 1430 10 2 452 Expired appropriations. 
33 \ 88 175 0 296 V may 'assembly values 1.' Buildings and furniture Current assets 1. Stocks 2. Amounts to be recovered 3. Advances 4. VAT still to be collected. 5. Expenses still to be recorded cash accounts 1. Bank account 2. Imprest account 1994 1290 23 15 1 222 849 2168 1 125 1995 941 7 26 9 251 1962 5360 504 Debt 1994 1 3 1 2 967 232 394 6 330 2 4 5 5 693 (1 000 ECU) 1995 948 2 013 482 558 16 326 4 668 49 9 060 ANNEX 1 HOUSHAL YEAR 1995 - USE OF THE AVAILABLES MEDIUM 5 693 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by Cedefop. 
Budget 1995 (ECU 1 000) Transferred appropriations from 1994 Payments 5 279 2 916 1912 0 10 107 Transferred payments 548 343 1255 10 2 156 MADE TO 31. December 1995 9 060 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Balance of the financial year Short-term V liabilities 1. Salary deductions 2. Other liabilities Recoverable amounts Reusable amounts Transferd funds Floating payments· 
Table 1 Transfers FROM THE ORDERAL HAUSHALTSPLAN EÜR 1995 (ECU) Personnel expenditure in respect of operations Operational expenditure Not specifically earmarked expenditure Total carryovers from 1995 1 273 814 820 797 2 563 677 10 000 4 668 288 Share of carryovers original budget in % 16.7 20.6 52.9 100.0 28,3 During period 1. 1.-31. 
3. Transfers disbursed in 1996 1 048 148 '500 982 873 883 0 2 423 013 3. Carry-overs in 1996 from.1995 as % 82 61 34 0 52 Total (a) 
The Management Board will follow the structure of the Court's observations and conclusions. 
3. The Board of Directors has a legitimate expectation that all institutions and decentralised entities will be treated in a similar way and on the basis of the same technical standards and practices that ensure equal treatment. 
4. The Management Board considers that the uniform presentation of the problems fails to mention essential facts which could be summarised as follows: - The decision of the European Council of 29 October 1993 was taken without prior assessment of the impact of such a transfer. 
At his first meeting with the staff, he expressed his firm determination to carry out the move on 1 September 1995, a timetable which CEDEFOP maintained despite the problems caused by the relocation of the Centre. - The Chairman of the Management Board sent a letter to the Commissioners responsible, Mr van Miert and Mr Ruberti. 
On 18 November 1994, the Chairman and Vice-Chairs of the Management Board of CEDEFOP were welcomed by the members of the Commission. 
The Chair addressed the urgent appeal to the Commission to develop social accompanying measures, in particular for those staff who were unable to leave Berlin. 
In the light of the regulations in force, the Commissioners stated that they were willing to examine the specific problems of some staff in a positive and pragmatic spirit. 
They also expected this from the other institutions of the Community (European Parliament, Council, etc.) - The Administrative Council was at its meeting on 8/9. In December 1994 it was not possible to decide on the date of the transfer, since it seemed unacceptable to simply dismiss staff who could not move to Thessaloniki without a modern social plan. 
At the same meeting, the Management Board instructed the Director to prepare a Management Council Decision (to be taken at an extraordinary meeting on 27 January 1995) which provided for a socially acceptable transfer of the Centre on 1 September. In the second half of December 1994, the Council began to examine the Commission's proposal to amend Article 13 of the Regulation applicable to CEDEFOP, which provided that the staff of the Centre should be subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities. 
The Director adopted this amendment as a basis for the formulation of the Framework Agreement on Social Accompanying Measures in connection with the transfer of CEDEFOP to Thessaloniki. 
On 23 January 1995, the framework agreement was signed with the staff. 
The preparations were carried out in close cooperation with the European Commission, which proved to be very helpful throughout the transition period (1994-1996). - The Board of Directors decided to accept the Framework Agreement and to relocate the Centre to Thessaloniki on 1 September 1995. 
13. 3. The Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/13 was able to move to Thessaloniki. 
According to the Framework Agreement, staff members who were unable to leave Berlin decided to make themselves available to other EU institutions or public/private organisations and to receive a salary from the Centre for at least six months, with a monthly salary paid for each starting year of service. 
The principle of paying a monthly salary for each year of service is largely in line with the social plans and usual practices in Germany and neighbouring countries. - Early retirement was taken into account in 1995 for 17 staff members (aged over 55 with 10 years of service and over 50 years old with 15 years of service). 
These measures did not form part of the Framework Agreement and were finally not proposed by the Commission following the decisions of the Council of Ministers of 17 November 1995 to accept the "release" of officials in connection with the accession of new Member States only for officials of the European Parliament. 
The Management Board will reply in more detail in its opinions on paragraphs 46-66. 
In general, it should be stressed that the political aspects must be taken seriously and that subsequent criticism should be avoided. 
The relocation of a complete Community body within the restrictive framework of a large number of different regulations and in view of a considerable number of social and individual problems is indeed unique in the history of the Community. 
5. The Board of Directors will return below in this reply to the exception mentioned in the last sentence. 
8. The costs of the meetings of the Management Board in 1995 are due to the fact that two additional meetings (in January and June) had to be held in connection with the transfer. 
Moreover, the December 1995 meeting caused higher costs due to the official start of activity in Greece. 
Only two meetings are planned for 1996. 
13. The Management Board regrets that the Court has not responded to the European Parliament's decision to postpone the discharge for the 1994 budget. 
This raises serious questions, since - the 1994 discharge should be seen in the context of the Court's 1994 report and the Council's recommendation on granting discharge and should comply with the usual rules and procedures; - The European Parliament's assessment of the financial year 1995 without the existence of a report from the Court of Auditors for 1995 on which the Management Board could have given its opinion leads to the mixing of very different situations; the centre was moved to Greece in 1995. 
The installation was carried out smoothly and under acceptable conditions. 
This transfer requires a transitional period, due to the disruptions to which the staff were exposed, which can only be completed in 1997. 
15. There is a noticeable improvement in this respect. 
In the initial phase in Thessaloniki, the staff helped each other to carry out their work. 
16. As was pointed out last year, the increased use of the Paying Agency procedure took place at the request of the financial controller, who justified this on the basis of the cost-benefit ratio. The previous system caused high express delivery codes and led to delays. 
It also meant that the financial controller had to act more frequently. 
The use of the Paying Agency procedure for all expenditure that could require provisional commitments limited administrative costs and avoided delays. 
The situation is even more difficult due to the payment modalities in Greece (most payments are made in cash or by cheque). 
Invoices indicating bank details are rare; contractors shall collect their own claims. 
The geographical distance from the financial controller and the lack of reliability of postal delivery should also be taken into account. 
In addition, DHL express deliveries may only be made once a week for cost reasons (3 000 Bfrs per shipment). 
An amendment to the decision to set up the paying agency procedure will be submitted to the Management Board shortly in order to better take into account the wishes of the Court of Auditors. 
17. The transfer of appropriations in the last two months is explained by the need for optimal use of the budget (of which ECU 2 000 000 had been deferred and only shortly before the transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki) and by the decision of the Management Board (7/8). 12. 1995), to recruit national experts seconded in accordance with the requirements of the Commission (also to promote the work of the Centre). 
19. The Board of Directors was aware that 1995 and 1996 would be years of transition and renewal. 
A certain decline in productivity is inevitable in this international relocation, which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, has been carried out in an acceptable and smooth manner. 
The centre is still facing problems caused by the transition phase. 
20. With the relocation of the centre with a greatly reduced number of employees, the work of the administration and all other services slowed down. 
For this reason, a non-automatic transfer was requested and approved. 
No C 81/14 | D Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 22. The Management Board notes that the Commission shall make every effort to comply with the rules laid down in Article 26 of the Financial Regulations applicable to the Centre and to disburse the grant in accordance with actual needs during the first two weeks of the quarter. 
There was an improvement in 1995 compared to 1994. 
However, due to the length of internal procedures (in which the authorising authority, the financial controller and the accounting officer are involved) and the length of the transfer procedure by the bank, an overall delay in the processing period (on average 12 days in 1995) cannot be completely avoided. 
Nevertheless, three payments would have been made in 1995 almost in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 26, as they arrived at the centre less than four days after the end of the first two weeks of the quarter. 
If the processing period for all payments (which was between 9 and 22 days) had corresponded to the average period of 12 days, then all payments would have been made in accordance with Article 26 of the Financial Rules. 
The first payment did not comply with the rules, but that payment must be preceded by the commitment which requires a certain period of time. 
23. The deputy director moved from Thessaloniki to Berlin because there was uncertainty about the actual date of the transfer of the center. 
At the time of appointment (1 October 1994), no decision had yet been taken beyond the date of the removal (which could have been postponed further). 
It was to be hoped that his stay would be short, but his final duration was still unknown at the time. 
For the usual family reasons, he moved to Berlin under the conditions of status. 
The subsistence allowances for missions were granted in accordance with the same procedure as for other staff. 
As regards the second installation aid, the Deputy Director repaid that sum to the Centre after the audit, even though he would have been fully entitled. 
24. At its meeting in June 1995, the Management Board terminated its contract on 31 December 1995. In December 1995, the Director instructed the Director to implement this Decision and to arrange for payments in accordance with the Staff Regulations. 
The Management Board was pleased that the Deputy Director was ready to participate in the implementation of the 1995 Work Programme and to assist the Centre in its new start in Thessaloniki. 
The compensation (the payment of one third of the basic salary from the date on which his duties ceased until the expiry of his contract) corresponded to his contract and Article 47 of the CEOS. 
25. Given the difficulties of the initial phase and the large number of new contracts, the Centre was not able to carry out the usual tender procedures in each case. 
In the case of longer-term contracts, tender procedures are currently being carried out or are planned for 1996. 
In addition, in order to ensure balanced budgetary management throughout the year, the Management Board will prefer the adoption of the work programme in order to allow the services to have the necessary time for tenders and to make commitments and to conclude the corresponding contracts in the first months of the financial year. 
26. The 40 % of commitments for the budget line "Pilot Studies and Projects" (ECU 300 000) were made in the last months of the year, due to the late release of the deferred appropriations in the 1995 budget by the budgetary authority and the transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki. 
The Centre had to act logically and consistently, leaving no other choice since it had first to fulfil its financial obligations under Titles I and II and could only make further commitments under Title III after the deferred appropriations had been released. 
The possibility of secondment of national experts was granted by the Management Board at its meeting in December 1995 and could only be financed by the deferred appropriations. 
The Director had to act swiftly and within a short period of time to prevent funds (which became available very late) from falling. 
The application of the (Austrian) expert (officially endorsed by the government) was already available at the beginning of 1995. 
27. The reason for recording the rent for January 1996 in the financial statements for 1995 was purely practical in nature. 
According to the contract, the rent must be paid in advance in two instalments on 1 January and 1 July. 
Since the first payment was made only in October 1995 and it would have been difficult to pay immediately on 1 January 1996, the first payment was made for a period of five months, which included January 1996. 
28. The update of the inventory is in progress. 
29. This will be matched. 
30. The Centre shall ensure that it submits to the Commission a realistic statement on the cash flow. 
The last payment in the year should be the largest, as it must also be used to cover the first months of the following year, where normally larger payments are to be made. 
31. See the comments on point 4. 32. The management of the Centre shall carry out an assessment of the costs of the transfer and an assessment of developments in order to obtain a comprehensive picture of the costs and benefits of the transfer to Greece. 
13. 3. 97 I DE 1 ^ Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/15 36.-37. 
As the center was expected to resume its work immediately after the move, some additional investments and changes were required. 
As it was noted, the agreements do not contain a clear statement about this because the center needed more power connections and stronger computer cables than the existing ones. 
Other investments concerned additional security requirements and communication facilities, such as "Europe by Satellite", in order to be able to receive broadcasts directly through the institutions. 
The Centre has nevertheless placed questions on the provisional building on the agenda of the Steering Committee, which deals with the new building and, if necessary, the provisional building. 
The Board of Directors is aware that the content of the agreement on the new building confers a great responsibility on the Greek Government, which currently fulfils the agreement. 
Two points of particular concern are: - securing the provision of a high quality building at a reasonable price; - securing the timely completion of the building (if possible before 1 September 1998). 
The fact that large payments were made in advance (half of the building has already been paid even though the construction work has not yet started) can also have a positive impact, as the actual works (after the selection of the construction plan and the construction company in October/November 1996) could progress rapidly due to the immediate availability of the necessary financial resources. 
In general, the Management Board has full understanding of the Court's concerns, also shared by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Kellet-Bowmann and Mr Tappin, who visited the Centre on 1/2 and 14-15 May respectively. 
The Management Board is ready to address this issue in line with the Commission's recommendations. 
42. Due to the various accompanying social measures, the staff situation was very complicated, but all persons on the CEDEFOP salary list who were not made available to other organisations or seconded in Berlin were working for CEDEFOP and its work programme. 
43. The Management Board has taken the decision on the social accompanying measures related to the transfer (framework agreement) in order to take "appropriate measures as soon as possible" (see the statements contained in the minutes of the Council). 
The evaluation of the measures must therefore take into account their political background. 
The Centre is located in Thessaloniki, and the Board of Directors and the Director decide on the organisation of the work. 
Some items are certainly blocked as long as the social accompanying measures are effective. 
However, at the end of 1996 almost all measures will expire and then the CEDEFOP will be able to operate with full capacity on the basis of the medium-term priorities (to be decided by the Administrative Statute in November 1996) and the 1997 work programme, which is also based on these priorities. 
CEDEFOP will therefore move into the future with a revitalised and new approach from 1997 onwards. 
44. The persons who cannot leave Berlin for social or personal reasons, when the specified duration of their stay in Berlin ends, have three alternatives. 
In this respect, the V-resident of the court of first instance issued three orders rejecting the requests for transitional proceedings. 
These persons must move, leave the service of the Centre or find solutions to the Staff Regulations. 
45. The impact in 1996 is of course serious, but will only be minimal after the first months of 1997. 
The transfer had its consequences and costs. 
However, when compared to a similar transfer at national level, such as that of the CEREQ (Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches sur les Qualifications) from Paris to Marseille (where only 21 of the 120 employees moved with the Centre), the CEDEFOP did not have an excessively negative impact in view of an international transfer of almost 2 000 km. 
Cautious cost estimates indicate that cost neutrality will be achieved in 2000 and that work will be even more cost-effective after that (mainly due to the lower labour costs in Greece). 46.-66. 
The points raised need some general comments in advance: a) As the Court states in its conclusion (71) it is understandable that efforts have been made to assist staff in order to encourage them to continue their work for the EU institutions and to alleviate the difficult problems of relocation. (b) However, it is not the failure of the Management Board to "that the regulatory framework within which the relocation took place was incompatible with the proper treatment of high-age staff and did not allow the smooth relocation of CEDEFOP". (c) following the decision of the Management Board of 27 January 1995, on 6 February 1995 (Regulation (EC) No 251/95), the Council amended Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 to the effect that 'the staff of the Centre shall be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities'. 
Despite the lack of transitional provisions, such as when Regulation (EEC, Eura: Torn, ECSC) No 269/68 of the Council (see Article 102 of the Status of Officials of the European Community 
No C 81/16 | D | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 and Article 99 of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities) should have been taken into account that CEDEFOP staff could well be regarded as 'staff of the European Communities', even though they were subject to an ad hoc Council Regulation. (d) Since Community legislation did not provide for transitional measures, the Management Board had no choice but to act on its own responsibility; in order to safeguard the rights and interests of CEDE FOP staff. e) It should not be forgotten that Regulation (EC) No 251/95, which moved the seat of CEDEFOP from Berlin to Thessaloniki, meant a sudden change in the place of employment listed in the employment contracts: Berlin was the only seat of CEDEFOP for 20 years, and at no time since 10 February 1975 there was the slightest indication that this seat could be moved, let alone to another, far away Member State. 
The CEDEFOP staff have entered into an employment relationship on this basis and have directed their private decisions (place of employment of spouses, education of children) accordingly. f) In view of these circumstances, the Management Board had the duty to: - to provide staff with a high level of security with regard to their job (appointment as lifetime civil servants), - to ensure the maintenance of their category, grade and step, and - to help staff wishing to find another job. g) The Management Board would also like to point out that the posts authorised by the budgetary authority to CEDEFOP were permanent posts. 
According to Articles 2 and 8 of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the EC, these posts may be filled only by officials or temporary staff. (h) The wording of Regulation (EC) No 251/95 (the Centre's staff is subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities) clearly provides for the employment of officials. 
Since the posts filled by staff are permanent, the decision on civil servant status was appropriate and justified instead of temporary contracts. 
The Management Board would also like to comment on the points raised by the Court: 46. (last sentence) The Management Board had the choice to either appoint staff as lifelong civil servants or offer them two-year contracts (see opinion under point (g) above). 
It was considered unacceptable to require staff to move from Berlin to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract. 
48. Although it is true that the Board of Directors did not formally submit the agreements to the Financial Controller for the purpose of issuing a endorsement, the latter was informed of the decisions taken. 
At the time of signature of the agreement, it was not yet clear, on the basis of the outstanding individual decisions of the staff, the precise financial implications of the agreement. 
It provided a framework that provided the basis for individual decisions and received the full approval of the financial controller during his visit to Berlin. 
50-51. 
In view of the arguments set out in (e) above, the decision taken (see remark, second indent) was the only possible one. 
It was also in line with the Commission's unambiguous statement (see the last sentence of the statement for the Council minutes annexed) "that there must be no deterioration in the conditions of employment for CEDEFOP staff". 
The considerations of the Commission Legal Service, which are only partially cited in paragraph 56, leave sufficient room for such a decision. 
The Management Board reiterates that Article 29 of the Staff Regulations provides that the appointing authority is entitled to conduct internal competitions for the purpose of filling vacant posts in an institution (point lb). 
The competitions were conducted in full compliance with Annex III to the Staff Regulations. 
55. The aim and obligation of the Management Board was to ensure that the largest possible number of CEDEFOP staff members agreed to move to Thessaloniki. 
It must not be overlooked that Regulation (EC) No 251/95 amended the rules applicable to staff with effect from 1 March 1995 and that the move to Thessaloniki took place in August of the same year. 
The Board's approach was based on the following considerations: - it was unthinkable to require staff to move to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract (remark under (g) and point 46 above); - there was not enough time to organise an open competition before moving to Thessaloniki, and again it would not have been realistic to expect staff to move around without a secure employment commitment. 
13. 3. 97 I DE | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/17 56.-59./The Management Board has already explained (see above, remark under (e)) that the move to Thessaloniki meant a sudden change in the place of employment that inevitably caused social problems and impaired productivity for a certain period of time. 
To require staff to relocate after allocation of a low grade or step would have worsened their situation. 
The note from the Legal Service of the Commission, referred to in paragraph 56 above, provides sufficient arguments to justify the position taken by the Centre under point (d). 60.-61. 
All staff applying for an appointment as officials for a lifetime were granted the probationary period laid down in Article 34 of the status. 
62. According to remark (f), 3. Indent, above, the Management Board considered it its duty to assist staff in an acceptable manner. 
This view was also expressed by the Commission's Legal Service. 
65. The rules governing the remittance modality of part of the remuneration allow this percentage to be increased from 35 % to 50 % in individual cases where there are justified reasons in accordance with Article 4 of the Regulation. 
The Framework Agreement allowed the transfer of a higher percentage (> 35 % in accordance with the Staff Regulations, but 50 % under the Staff Regulations) in individual cases and certain obligations under the Staff Regulations received before 29 October 1993 (the date on which the European Council decided to relocate the Centre). 
The application of these rules is completely different in the case of CEDEFOP and concerns only a limited number of persons with high liabilities in Berlin. 
66. The Management Board would like to thank the Commission for the assistance it has provided in a number of cases in finding alternative employment opportunities for staff unable to move to Thessaloniki, as well as for any other assistance it sent to the Centre almost daily during the relocation. 
68. See comments of the Management Board on paragraphs 23 and 24. 69.-70. 
See in particular the general comments under paragraphs 46-66. 
71. The Board of Directors regrets that the legislator did not include transitional legislation in Regulation (EC) No 251/95 in order to solve the difficult personnel problems caused by the move to Thessaloniki. 
Given the lack of appropriate tools, the Management Board was all the more obliged to provide the best possible support to CEDEFOP staff. 
The Board of Directors believes that it has acted in the only acceptable manner in the given and truly unprecedented circumstances. 
In the end, it was obvious that he had to make such efforts (as the Court recognises), since it is his duty as an employer to carry out the international representation of a complete institution in a socially acceptable manner. 
The Board of Directors, the Director and the staff acted in this positive spirit, possibly taking some risks but did not engage in abuse of power or acted unlawfully. 
No C 81/18 1 DE | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 REPORT on the 1995 financial statements and financial management of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Foundation Dublin) (97/C 81/02') (Remarks under the second subparagraph of Article 188c(4) of the EC Treaty) INHADED Financial Statements OF THE EUROPEAN OPINIONS FOR THE LIFE AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE HAUSHALTSYHR 1995 imprest Ł Transfers from title to Title Mission expenses Cash balances Current assets Property of the Foundation Numbers Implementation of the budget and settlement Transfers 15 Transfers and cancellations of appropriations Expenditures 19 Conclusion 23 1-5-4 19 27 5-5 19 15 8 6 19 7 19-19 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 14 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20-20 22 20-27 21 7 19 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 
• FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 1. This report shall be submitted to the Council and the European Parliament in accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75. 
2. The Court has adopted the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the 31st century. The financial year ended December 1995. 
In accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 
L 164 of 24. 6. 1976, p. 16) the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Board of Directors. 
This is in accordance with Articles 52, 54 and 55 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93. 
L 181 of 23. 7. 1993, p. 26) amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (OJ 1993 L 26, p. 
The Court of Auditors is required to audit these financial statements in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
3. The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards to the extent that they are applicable to the Community context. Accordingly, he carried out audits of the accounts and applied other audit procedures which seemed necessary in this context. 4. In the Court's view, the financial statements for the date of 3(1). 
The financial year ended December 1995 and has the task "to contribute to the design and creation of better living and working conditions through an action to promote and disseminate knowledge capable of supporting this development." 
The Dublin Foundation began its activities in 1976. 
Audit scope 6. The Court of Auditors has audited the annual accounts and the financial management of the Dublin Foundation in accordance with the relevant regulations (2). 
Financial data 7. For the 1995 financial year, the Foundation had a budget of ECU 12.5 million. 
The commitments made resulted in payments of ECU 9.3 million and transfers to 1996 amounting to ECU 3 million, with the balance of ECU 0.2 million cancelled. 
Of the appropriations carried over from the previous year, ECU 1.9 million was disbursed and ECU 0.2 million was cancelled. 
Annex 3 to this report contains an analysis, broken down by title, of the use of the appropriations for the financial year and the appropriations carried over from 1994. 
Follow-up of previous comments segregation of tasks 8. The Court repeats its previous remark that the tasks of the authorising officer and the accounting officer are not sufficiently separate. 
This is contrary to Article 15 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, according to which the principle of "separation of authorising powers and accounting" applies and that "the activities of the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer are incompatible". 
Paying agency 9. A great deal (1995: 5 9 %, excluding salaries) of payments continue to be made without prior authorisation by a financial controller. 
The extent to which the Paying Agency is used is not within the meaning of the Financial Regulations. 
It would be more acceptable if only (2) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May. 1975 on the foundation of the foundation 
L 139 of 30. 5. 1975), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993. 
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976 on the financial rules applicable to the Foundation 
L 164 of 24. 6. 1976), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993. 
No C 81/20 DE Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 current or smaller expenditure, where the risk of irregularities is relatively low, is likely to be handled by the Paying Agency. The Foundation, in consultation with the Financial Controller, should define in writing what is meant by current and smaller expenditure. 
Transfers from title to title 10. The Foundation continued to carry over appropriations from title to title in 1995 (see paragraph 16). 
This is contrary to Article 21 of Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of the ECU 1 494 000 (11.9 % of the appropriations entered in the budget), while in 1994 they still amounted to ECU 756000 (6.5 %). 
16. By way of transfers of ECU 500 000 from Title 1 (staff) to Title 3 (operational expenditure), the Foundation could carry over commitments to the following financial year, which would otherwise have been cancelled in accordance with Article 6(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76. 
As already stated in paragraph 10, the Court considers that such transfers from title to title are in breach of the Financial Regulation. 
Transfers and cancellations of funds 17. As shown in Annex 3, the total settlement shows a payment rate of 75 %, while the payment rate for Title 3 "Operational Expenditure" is only 54 %. 
Table 1 shows, by title, the carry-overs from the 1995 budget and their subsequent use in 1996. 
Transfers under Title 3 amounted to 45 % of the initial appropriations. 
By the end of March 1996, only 20 % of the transfers had been used. 
Income 18. The EU grant to the Foundation amounted to ECU 12.5 million in 1995. 
The amounts actually requested and received amounted to ECU 2.5 million as at 26 April 1995, ECU 2 million as at 14 June 1995, ECU 4.3 million as at 12 October 1995 and ECU 1.3 million at 31 December 1995. December 1995. 
The difference of ECU 2.4 million corresponded to the unneeded cash resources not called up by the Commission in accordance with the Court's recommendation made in the previous year. 
As in previous years, this type of financing is not compatible with Article 26 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93, which provides that the subsidy is paid in the first half of each quarter. 
Expenses 19. Article 63 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976 provides that contracts for the value of more than ECU 12 000 must be awarded following an invitation to tender. 
The following exceptions have been identified: - A contract worth ECU 533 072 to carry out a Europe-wide survey on working conditions was awarded by hand. - In a sample of 26 contracts selected for the audit, six contracts were based on Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, Council, as amended by Council Regulation No 1949/93. 
13. 3. 97 | EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/21, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993, awarded by hand. In three cases (supply of computers in one case and study contracts in the other), Article 46 was used to avoid the tendering procedure. 
20. In two cases, it was found that expenditure had already been invoiced before the commitment was made. 
In one case, invoices for November and December 1994 were taken into account in the 1995 commitment, although the framework contract between the Foundation and the Contractor did not start until 1 January 1995. 
21. In a sample of 10 study contracts taken for examination, five contracts received final reports only months after the deadline set in the contract. 
22. In its audit, the Court found that documents had been modified using corrective fluid in the following cases: - The date of an invoice faxed to the financial controller for DM 45 365 (ECU 23 817) was overwritten with corrective fluid and handwritten in 17 January 1995. Amended December 1994. 
The financial controller issued his endorsement on the basis of this fax, and the change of date led to the recording of the expenditure at the expense of the 1994 carry-overs rather than the 1995 appropriations. - The amount in a recovery order was overwritten with corrective liquid and manually changed from ECU 1 680.16 to ECU 4 741.97. 
It is not clear to what amount the financial controller's endorsement relates. 
27. The audit of a sample of payments revealed problems in order management as well as inappropriate changes to important documents, see paragraphs 19-22. 
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 7 November 1996. For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President 
No C 81/22 1 DE [Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Assets 1994 Assets 1. Building 7106 2. Furniture 1 0 8 5 Current assets 1. Stocks 21 2. Amounts to be recovered 439 3. Mission advances 8 4. Various advances 1 5. Bank fees 6 cash accounts 1. Bank account -Ecu 4488 - Main account 131 - Paying agent account 104-1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1-1520 190 245 debts standing capital 1. Equity 2. Balance of the financial year Short-term V liabilities 1. Salary deductions Recoverable revenue Appropriation for re-use Transferable payment appropriations 1994 8 211 1 3 4 4 4 10 440 109 2 061 1214 13 389 (1 000 ECU) 1995 ' 8 479-2 040 18 306 224 3 012 751 10 750 December 1995 10 750 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Dublin Foundation. 
1 097 305-5 8 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 143 165 39 10 347 5 185 28 833 177 3 320. 2 807 12 350-2 003 147-184-2 040 Exhibit staff 1. Payments during the year 2. Appropriations carried over Administrative expenditure 1. Payments during.of the year 2. Appropriations carried over Operational expenditure 1. Payments during the year 2. Appropriations carried over profit for the year (a) - (b) carried over from the previous year and exchange rate difference during total expenditure (b) finalised appropriations Year 1344 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Dublin Foundation. '' 
Total (a) balance of the year 
No C 81/24 DE Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 titles 1. Staff expenditure Final appropriations 5 316 1 0 5 0 6 174 Payments 5 185 (97.5) 833 (79.3) 3 320 (53.8) Transfers 28 (0.5) 177 (16.9) 2 807 (45.4) Cancellations 103 (2) 40 (3.8) 47 (0.8) 190 (1.5) Available appropriations 160 169 1732 2 061 payments 131 (81.9) 141 (83.4) 1642 (94.8) 1914 (92.9) Cancellations 29 (18.1) 28 (16.6) 90 (5.2) 147 (7.1). 
2. Current material expenditure for operations 3. Total Operational Expenditure 3 012 (24) ANNEX 3 HOUSE YEAR 1995 - USE OF THE AVAILABLE MEDIUM 12 540 The figures in brackets correspond to the percentage of final or available appropriations. 
Title 1 2 3 Transfers from the financial year 1995 27 956 177 357 2 806 626 3 011 938 Transfers in % of the original budget 3. Carry-overs used in 1996 carry-overs (%) Total budget 1995 (1 000 ECU) Transfers of 1994 9 338 (74.5) TABLE 1 MEETINGS FROM THE ORDERAL HAUSHALTSPLAN FOR 1995 (ECU) 0.5 16.9 45.4 24. 27 134 97 67 932 38 504 720 18 599 786 20 
13. 3. 97 I DE | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/25 ANTWORT 8. The Foundation has put in place a number of measures to separate the duties of the authorising officer and the accounting officer. 
The Court of Auditors took note of these initiatives in previous reports. 
The only problem that persists in practice is the procedure whereby the authorising officer records expenditure in the existing integrated accounting system. 
This problem will be solved once the foundation has acquired a new accounting system. 
Following the consultations of 1995, the Foundation, together with other EU agencies, participated in a joint tender procedure for the acquisition of an appropriate accounting system in 1996. 
The result, however, was that none of the candidates met the requirements of the institutions one hundred percent. 
Following in-depth contacts with the Commission services, the Foundation is expected to acquire an appropriate accounting system from the Commission in the course of 1997, following the recent completion of the work on a corresponding system that meets the technical and legal requirements of the agencies. 
9. The Foundation has contacted the Commission services with regard to solutions to the identified problem. 
The Foundation has now been informed that this issue is being discussed between the Commission and the European Parliament in the context of the ongoing dialogue on the agencies' Financial Regulation. 
10. Following the last report of the Court of Auditors, the Foundation asked the Commission services to clarify the Foundation's Financial Regulation with regard to the transfers in question. 
The Foundation is now informed by the Director-General of DG XIX that the transfers have been carried out in accordance with the Foundation's Financial Regulation (see also paragraph 16). 
11. All missions within the Foundation were documented and approved by the Authorising Officer after they had verified that they were in line with the Foundation's work programme or administrative requirements. 
The Foundation will review its procedures to record and find the necessary documentation relating to missions. 
The Regulation establishing the Foundation requires that the European institutions be consulted and the social partners involved in their work. 
Although there has been a deepening of exchanges with the relevant EU bodies in Brussels in recent years, the number of missions to Brussels has not increased. 
No missions are made if other means of communication can be used. 
As far as possible, telephone, Internet, e-mail and other electronic tools are used. A videoconferencing pilot project was also launched in November 1995. 
Similarly, experiments with co-puter conferences have also been carried out. 
14. On the basis of a proposal submitted by the Irish authorities, the lawyers are currently preparing a revised lease agreement. 
16. As mentioned in paragraph 10 above, the Foundation has been informed by the Commission that the transfers concerned are fully in line with the Financial Regulation. With its help, the Foundation was able to use the funds made available to it through the decisions of the budgetary authorities in the most efficient way. 
However, the Foundation recognises the position of the Court of Auditors and Parliament and endeavours to carry out such transfers only in urgent cases. 
These contracts mainly concerned studies with a deadline of 12 months or more. 
18. The Foundation will remind the Commission services that the grant must be implemented by the 15th of each quarter. 
19. The contract for conducting a European investigation into working conditions shows that this contract had been concluded under the framework contract for the Eurobaromčtre-Stan-dard between the European Commission and INRA (Europe), drawn up on the basis of an open tendering procedure. 
The direct award of contracts was fully in line with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of the Financial Regulation of the Foundation and the criteria to be followed in this respect. These are followed. For the supply of computers, Article 46(d) was applied. 
Only one supplier had the required software as well as the special multi-spracbig tasta-tures and provided local support: The other two contracts relate to research proposals. 
At its meeting of 25 March 1994, the Board of Directors of the Foundation approved the introduction of new procedures, which were to be fully operational during 1995, for the award of contracts based on calls for expressions of interest published in the Official Journal, as well as calls for tenders. 
The two contracts were concluded during the transition period set by the Board of Directors. 
20. The Foundation operates a decentralised ordering system. 
The two invoices were part of a series of orders placed by an operational unit whose total orders exceeded the committed appropriations. 
Appropriate measures will be taken to prevent this from happening again. 
The provision of a new rectification system should ensure the automatic implementation of the necessary controls. 
21. The implementation of the study contracts is monitored on a monthly basis at the programme management department. 
22. The appointment was placed for the services concerned on 11 October 1994. 
The change in the date on the invoice itself had no influence on the transfers. 
However, the official in question was criticised. 
Any necessary corrections to be made by hand will be signed and dated in the future. 
13. 3. 97. [The Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/27 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/03) (period from 1 September 1994 to 31. December 1995) 1.1. 
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in accordance with Article 57(10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (a). 1.2. 
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995. 
In accordance with Article 57(7) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Director of Administration. 
The latter shall also be responsible for drawing up and submitting the invoice (2), in accordance with the internal financial rules provided for in Article 57(11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. In accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to audit such accounts. 
This is a report on the Agency's first audit. .1.3. 
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report. 1.4. The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are guaranteed as a whole. 
Ç) OJ. 
L 214 of 24. 8. 1993, P. 18. (2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 57(9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the accounts for all the revenue and expenditure of the Agency for the financial year 1995 were drawn up by 31 March 1996. 
These accounts were received by the Court on 9 April 1996. 
Main observations on the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Commission grant ~ 1.5. 
During the 1995 financial year, the Agency recovered the Commission's subsidy (10.1 million ECU) without issuing the corresponding recovery orders. 
Accounting for budgetary transactions 1.6. 
Until August 1995 there was no journal on commitments and payments for this financial year. 
At the end of the year, the Agency established an accounting system. 
The Court found that this system allows post-clearance change of bookings without this being recognisable. 
In the absence of dated commitments, the available appropriations were exceeded (infringements of Articles 29, 35 and 36 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Agency), although the Administrative Director submitted an amending budget approved by the Management Board (transfers from chapter to chapter). 
Until August 1995, the Agency made all payments through a paying agency. 
This additional use of the paying agency procedure infringes Article 45 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Agency, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure. 1.8. 
Moreover, the Agency did not start to clear this expenditure until September 1995. 
At the end of the financial year on 31. In December 1995 some ECU 937 000 had to be settled. 
General invoice 1.9. 
As a result of the payment by the Paying Agency, the accounts and the budget were not entered until September and December 1995. 
This violates accounting practices. 
No C 81/28 | EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 26 September 1996. 
Result to be transferred Subtotal Transferred appropriations 1. Non-automatic transfers 2. Automatic transfers Subtotal V accounts 1994 1488 0 1488 1 0 1 8 2 831 3 849 31 3 34 0 5 371 (1 000 ECU) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 564 5 914 41 85 126 390 1226 199 1 815 10 800 TABLE 1 MUSINESS TO 31. December 1995 10 800 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Agency. 17 5 371 Subtotal Liabilities total V Requirements Subtotal Short-term 1. Salary deductions 2. Various creditors 1. 2. 3. Fees to be reused only later (Art. 23 R.F.) 
1994 •6 800 13 6 813 413 226 2 568 3 618 5 6 830-17-17 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 150 299 3 210 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551 
13. 3. 97 I DE Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/31 Answers from EMEA 1.6. 
Commercial accounting systems available on the market do not take into account the specificities of Community financial rules. 
For this reason, the Agencies published a call for tenders in 1995 for a system that meets their needs. 
Until the introduction of the new system, the agency works with a spreadsheet system. 
It is true that this system allows for subsequent changes to the entries without them being traced in the accounts of the budgetary transactions. 
However, these changes can be found in the general accounts. 
All budget operations are documented on the matter. 
During the start-up period, until the appointment of the financial controller in the house, a paying agent was indispensable for the proper functioning of the Agency. 
This is the only way to quickly implement the decision of the Member States on the establishment of the Agency. 
With the entry into service of the Financial Controller, the Paying Agency was less used and closed at the end of July 1995. On the 3 rd. 
In December 1995, 75 % of the amounts received by the Paying Agency had been settled. 
Even if a large amount could only be settled in 1996, the Agency achieved a satisfactory final result and did its best under difficult circumstances. 
This report shall be submitted to the Committee on Budgets of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market in accordance with Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20. December 1993 (*). 1.2. 
The Court examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995. 
In accordance with Article 119(2)(c) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office. 
In accordance with Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the latter is also responsible for drawing up and submitting the invoice (3), while complying with the internal fiscal rules. In accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to audit such accounts. 
This is a report on the Office's first examination. 1.3. 
Main observations on the implementation of the budget of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Commission grant 1.5. 
During the 1995 financial year, the Office received only ECU 6.8 million (68 %) of the grant. 
L 11 of 14. 1. 1994, P. 33. 
(3) In accordance with the provisions of Article 137(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts for all revenue and expenditure of the Office for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 29 March 1996, signed by the President of the Office and transmitted to the Commission, the Committee on Budgets and the Court of Auditors. 
These accounts were received by the Court on 2 April 1996. 
The tables annexed to this report reflect these financial statements in abbreviated form. 
In the Court's view, the Office should have issued a recovery order for the entire budget (10.1 million ECU) in order to be able to comply with the commitments carried over to 1996 (4.6 million ECU). 
During the 1995 financial year, the Office established an accounting system. 
This is contrary to the internal financial regulation (Articles 4(1) and 29(1)). 
Transfers and transfers 1.7. 
The appropriations carried over to 1996 represent 46 % of the budget and mainly relate to computerised material (Titles II and III of the budget). 
Moreover, the appropriations available were carried over from Title I (staff) to Title II (expenditure) for a total amount of ECU 2,529 million (25 % of the budget). Inventory 1.8. 
The inventory is kept only in terms of quantity, but not in value. 
It is therefore not possible to coordinate with the amounts shown in the Office's balance sheet. Separation of tasks 1.9. 
The administrative system set up by the Office does not guarantee adequate separation of tasks and proper implementation of the rules on revenue, commitments and payments (authorising officer, financial controller and accounting officer). Property, plant and equipment T.10. 
The office is currently housed in a building of the Spanish government. 
However, there is no contract for the use of this building. 
In view of the future provision of its final seat, the Office should clarify the need for accommodation of its services. 
13. 3. 97 I DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/33 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 26 September 1996. 
TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31. December 1995 '2 17 1 4 4 7 7 194 3 469 1487 15 3 275 1 879 6127 Accounting delimitation item 15 Liabilities total 1487.6 127 169 
C 81/36 p 5 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 ADDITIONS OF THE Commission's grant 1.5. 
Neither the Commission nor OHIM was aware of the need for a recovery order. 
OHIM took note of this observation by the Court of Auditors, prompting the issuing of a recovery order for the financial year 1996 for the entire grant minus the provisions. 
Accounting for budgetary transactions 1.6. It is true that the accounting system currently in use by OHIM allows subsequent changes to the accounts. 
For the period up to the introduction of the Sincom2 system developed by the Commission, OHIM has put in place organisational arrangements for additional security guarantees when using the current system. 
Until then, OHIM has no other option than waiting for the Commission's accounting system, which is likely to be available before the end of the year, since the development of such a system entails a large financial burden which an Office cannot bear on its own. 
In 1995, the Office's budget was adopted taking into account a provision of ECU 2 million required by Parliament for a general budget of 10.1 MECU. 
The provision was repealed in two stages: - ECU 1 million in October 1995, the balance in November 1995. 
The temporary blocking of funds, of course, has had an impact on their use, in particular the appropriations under Title I (staff), as there was uncertainty as to whether the provisions would be effectively lifted. 
Under no circumstances could OHIM be allowed to hire staff until payment of salaries was guaranteed by the end of the financial year. 
Following the release of the provisions, measures were taken to use the decommitted appropriations in the budget lines where it was still possible due to the deadlines for the budgetary commitment procedures and where there was a real need. 
For this reason, the Office has requested a transfer of appropriations from Title I to Title II in order to mainly create computerised material which was particularly urgently needed during the start-up phase of the Office. 
It must be recalled that OHIM started its activities on 1 April 1996 and that since then more than 30 000 trade mark applications have been received, whereas the workload for the whole financial year had been estimated at 15,000 applications. 
Inventory 1.8. At the time of the Court's audit, OHIM had just received from the Commission the software for the computerised management of the inventory; it was just installed at the time. 
Separation of tasks 1.9. 
A question from the Court of Auditors made it clear that this point concerns the order of signatures to be followed in the budgetary and payment procedures. 
It is therefore not a confusion with regard to the duties of the authorising officer, the accounting officer and the financial controller. 
Rather, the remark concerned the fact that the transaction was first signed by the accounting officer and then by the authorising officer. · This approach had the advantage of ensuring that, in the start-up phase of the Office, when there was no manager of funds, it was ensured that the funds were available before a transaction was signed by the authorising officer. Once OHIM has a financial manager, the following order of signatures can be observed in the various budgetary documents: 1. Middle management, 2. Authorising officer, 3. Financial Controller, 4. Accounting officer. 
Property, plant and equipment 1.10. 
There is an agreement (see copy in annex) between the Minister of Industry of the Spanish Government 
13. 3. Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/37 and Commissioner Vanni d'Archirafi, responsible for the internal market at the time. On the basis of this Agreement, the Spanish authorities shall make a building (preliminary seat) available to the Office free of charge; this is the building in which the Office is currently housed. 
It is precisely this agreement that the Spanish Government will take measures to provide the Office with a definitive seat. 
The decision on the site and the specifications for the tendering of the building to be constructed was taken by the Spanish authorities on 3 July 1996. 
These specifications will be published on 30 July of this year in the Official Journal of the European Communities (S series - invitation to tender). 
Following these recent developments, the Office will take the necessary steps without delay. 
This report shall be submitted to the Governing Board of the European Training Foundation in accordance with Article 11(4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 of 7 May 1990 0. 
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995. 
In accordance with Article 11(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Director. 
In accordance with Article 11(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the latter is also responsible for drawing up and submitting the invoice (2), in compliance with internal financial rules. In accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to audit such accounts. 
This is a report on the foundation's first examination. 
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards to the extent that they are applicable to the Community context. 
It has carried out audits of the accounts and applied other audit procedures deemed necessary in this context. 
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report. 
(2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 11(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the accounts for all the revenue and expenditure of the Foundation for the financial year 1995 were drawn up at 31 March 1996, signed by the Director of the Foundation and transmitted to the Commission, the Bureau and the Court of Auditors. 
The tables in the Annex to this report reflect this financially in abbreviated form. 
Main observations on the implementation of the budget of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995 
This system and the systematic settlement through the Paying Agency may lead to overruns. 
Paying agency 1.6. 
In 1995, the Foundation made all payments through a paying agency. 
This is not compatible with Article 43 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure. 
Moreover, the accounts of this expenditure were delayed because the relevant documents had to be sent to the financial controller to issue the endorsement to Brussels. 
Procurement 1.7. ^ The Foundation has allocated several out of a total of ECU 0.4 million to use the funds still available at the end of the financial year. 
However, it did not comply with the procurement rules, in particular with regard to price or performance competition (Articles 45 to 51 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation). 
Financial Controller 1.8. 
In view of the current situation, the Foundation's internal control system could be improved by assigning it to the Commission an on-the-spot financial controller. Supply contracts in the amount 
13. 3. 97 I DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/39 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 10 October 1996. 
No C 81/40 1 DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Assets Investments 1. Property, plant and equipment 2. Material and furniture operating values 1. Office material Subtotal Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected. 2. Aid to be recovered from 1994 0 • 35 0 35 0 0 0 0 1995 0 568 0 568 0 543 24 5 6 7. 
3 398 Liabilities Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Result to be transferred Subtotal Transferred appropriations 1. Non-automatic 1994 35 184 219 319 2 481 2 800 72 63 135 11 3 165 (1 000 ECU) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 1985 2 127 77 0 77 195 4 533 Commission 3. V Received cash accounts 1. Bank accounts Obligor Subtotal V liabilities TABLE 1 REPORT TO 31. December 1995 Total assets Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Foundation. * Carryovers Automatic transfers 3 130.3 165 Subtotal liabilities 4 533 2. Short-term 1. Salary deductions 2. Human Resources V deposit accounts Subtotal 
No C 81/42 | EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 RESPONSES FROM THE FOUNDATION 1.5. 
Balance sheet accounting - The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors. 
It has also played a crucial role in the introduction of a system for the management of the budget and accounting which is uniform in all departments. 
Discussions are ongoing with the Commission's responsible services, which will make it possible to overcome all concerns raised by the Court of Auditors by introducing a new system for the management of the budget, which will enter into force from 1 January 1997. 
It is important to emphasise that none of the household resources provided had been exceeded during the period under review. 
1,6. It must be stressed that the advance payments were not used for all purchases of equipment or for the participation in real estate, which constituted a significant part of the budget. 
In addition, the use of general advances in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation has been reduced and all accounting documents of a given month shall be sent to the auditor in Brussels within the 10th and 20th of the following month respectively. 
On the one hand, the contracts under discussion, closely linked to the activities and projects forming part of the Foundation's work programme, constitute an extremely small part of the Foundation's activities, both in terms of number and budget. 
On the other hand, it is true that the involvement of the competition that led to these treaties took place informally. 
This procedure had been chosen at the time mainly because of urgency. 
In addition, the contracts under discussion had the task of organising conferences and seminars in the name and on behalf of the Foundation and under its strict control. 
The corresponding budget was divided into two parts: the fixed part of the remuneration (below ECU 12 000) and the operational part determined in advance by the Foundation and repaid on the basis of the supporting documents. 
On the basis of these elements, the Foundation considered that the actual contract amount would not exceed ECU 12 000. 
When it became clear at the beginning of 1996 that the Court of Auditors did not share this view, this system was abandoned. 
The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors. 
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13(4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990J1). 
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995. 
In accordance with Article 13(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the budget was implemented under the V reply of the Executive Director. 
The latter shall also be responsible for drawing up and submitting the invoice (2), in accordance with the internal financial rules laid down in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 0. In accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to audit such accounts. 
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards to the extent that they are applicable to the Community context. 
It has carried out audits of the accounts and applied other audit procedures deemed necessary in this context. 
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are guaranteed as a whole. 
Main observations on the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Commission grant 1.5. 
In the course of the 1995 financial year, the Agency only took part of the Act (i1) in its budget, OJ L 120, 11. 5. 1990, P. 4. 
(2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 13(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts for all the revenue and expenditure of the Agency for the financial year 1995 were drawn up by 20 June 1996, signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and transmitted to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors. 
These accounts were received by the Court of Auditors on 29 June 1996. 
The tables annexed to this report reflect these financial statements in an abbreviated form. ECU 12 million - confiscated appropriations: ECU 6.2 million). 
The Court considers that during the financial year 1995 the Agency should have issued a recovery order for the outstanding balance (ECU 5.8 million) in order to meet the commitments carried over to the financial year 1996 (a total of ECU 7 million). Average overrun 1.6. 
In the context of Titles I (staff expenditure) and II (material expenditure) of the budget, several overruns totalling around ECU 0.4 million were recorded. 
This amount, which could not be entered at the expense of the 1995 budget, is entered in a custody account on the assets side of the balance sheet and must be entered at the expense of the budget for the financial year 1996 (infringement of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Agency). 
Paying Agency 1.7. 
Almost all payments to be charged to Titles I and II of the budget were handled by a paying agency. 
The use of this imprest is not compatible with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation for the Agency, as the imprest administrator was both accounting officer and manager of some budget lines. 
Moreover, the deadlines for submitting the supporting documents have not been met and the availability of committed appropriations for payments has not been verified. 
This seems to be the main reason for the above-mentioned overruns. 
Transfers 1.8. 
As at the end of 1994, a very high proportion of the available appropriations was carried over at the end of 1995 (7 million ECU - 57.2 % of the total budget). 
Most of the transfers concerned Title III (operational expenditure) (6,4 million ECU - 90.3 % of the appropriations entered in this Title). 
A large part of the amount of ECU 8.5 million carried over from 1994 to 1995 had to be cancelled (21 % of the appropriations carried over). 
N°C 81/44 '' Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Subsequent referral to the Financial Controller 1.9. 
Several applications for commitments amounting to ECU 0.5 million were submitted to the financial controller in retrospect. 
In these cases, the financial control-leur has denied its endorsement, which the Board of Directors has disregarded. 
The Court underlines the commitment to comply with the Financial Regulation that "for all measures that may result in expenditure being charged to the budget" (Article 27 of the Financial Regulation for the Agency), a request for commitment must be made in advance. Separation of tasks 1.10. 
The separation of tasks was not complied with in the Agency's administrative department. 
Due to the lack of accounting staff, the same person was simultaneously accounting officer, imprest administrator and manager of funds/authorising officer of some budget lines. 
Accounting systems 1.11. 
Two independent systems are used for the management of budget transactions and general accounts. 
Moreover, the accounting system does not provide for any margins for budgetary transactions if the available or committed appropriations are exceeded. 
Financial Controller 1.12. 
The Management Board has appointed the financial controller of the Commission as financial controller. 
On the basis of the Agency's current functioning, the Court considers it appropriate to assign it a V-period financial contribution. This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 28 October 1996 in Luxem-burg. For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI Edmann President 
13. 3. 97 I DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/45 Assets Fixed assets 1. Property, plant and equipment 2. Material and furniture 1994 153 650 (ECU 1 000) 1995 Liabilities 1994 1995 Operating values 1. Office equipment 9 Subtotal 812 ' 153 2 209 9 2 371 172 5 740 32 5 944 3 243 421 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Result to be transferred Subtotal Transferred appropriations 1. Non-automatic transfers 2. Automatic transfers Subtotal 812 193 1005 1 5 8 2 6 932 8 514 3-2 240 9 762 2 371 1844 4 215 989 5 997 6 986 0 778 11979 Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected. 2. Aid to be recovered from the 75 850 Commission 3. V Received cash accounts 1. Bank accounts V deposit accounts 1. Expenses to be recorded debtor Subtotal 925 TABLE 1 MOTION TO 31. December 1995 Total assets Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Agency. 
Total liabilities 0 8 025 Short-term 1. Salary deductions 0 9 762 custody accounts 11979 V liabilities 
1994 9 312 850 58 10 220 574 1 0 0 7 (1 000 ECU) 1995 6 219 5 740 362 12 321 2 896 202 1488 320 637 6 465 32 421 0 12 461 140. 193 1 791 1844 1 6 10 767 187 165 320 0 0 7 027 193 0 0 193 
• The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994. 
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was already adopted on 31 October 1994. 
Since the decision on the Agency's seat had been delayed, it was necessary to do particularly fast work at the beginning of the activities of the Environment Agency. 
Thanks to a large amount of work, projects could be identified and commitments made before the end of the year, but for obvious reasons, the implementation of the commitments could hardly begin before the end of 1994. 
In 1995, the Agency was faced with the difficult task of implementing not only the 1994 budget, but also a new budget of ECU 10.5 million for 1995, before the Agency's regular staff had entered into service. 
The Agency's vacancies were advertised in November 1994 and, following a lengthy selection process with more than 7 000 applications, the first selected candidates started their work in the summer of 1995. 
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work programme and practically two budgets, but had only a very limited number of staff for this task. 
Nevertheless, the work progressed and in 1995 significant projects such as the Dobris Situation Report and the revision of the 5. Environmental Action Plans, completed. 
Five European themed centres have been set up and EIONET has been set up. 
The Agency's regular staff increased from 1 person on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, such as national experts and auxiliary staff) and reached on 31 January 1995. In December 1995, 22 regular staff members continued to be assisted by 10 temporary agents. 
The Agency's administrative apparatus has been gradually expanded as the same open recruitment procedure has been applied. 
Nevertheless, in 1995 the Agency was clearly insufficient in terms of staff to cope with the procedural and financial aspects of the work. 
As regards the financial side, only one person was available in the first half of the year to deal with the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work programme. 
In June 1995, the head of the administrative department took up his duties, and it was not until the beginning of 1996 that the other financial and contract staff were added. 
Although the Agency fulfilled its mission, some errors have been made in the area of finance and budget with regard to the prescribed procedures. 
Overruns Some budget lines have been exaggerated. 
This was due, on the one hand, to the fact that the Agency's budgetary control system did not work to the satisfaction and, on the other hand, some payments made were not recorded as the Agency's financial department was clearly understaffed. 
Consequently, the clearance of accounts resulted in a discrepancy between the accounts and the actual payments, which appeared as an overdraft of certain budget lines. 
Since after 1 January no offsetting between different budget lines may take place, these amounts must be included in the accounts for 1996, i.e. financed from the 1996 budget. 
In 1996, the expenditure and the appropriations available under Titles I and II (i.e. the 1995 problem points) were carefully checked in order to avoid a surplus of expenditure. 
Non-compliance with procedures (subsequent referral to the financial controller) A work programme was drawn up during the establishment phase of the Agency and its implementation started before the administrative procedures were clearly defined and an appropriate administrative structure was available that could have monitored compliance with the procedures. 
In some cases, this led to the commissioning and execution of work, disregarding certain procedural rules. 
In particular, work was commissioned without the prior approval of the Financial Controller in Brussels, which is a precondition for this type of operational expenditure. 
The error was purely procedural and was justified by the fact that work had to be carried out, but that the necessary administrative structures to ensure compliance with the rules laid down by Brussels had not yet been established. 
A clear delegation of the authorising powers has been made and staff are informed of the procedural rules. 
As in all public institutions, certain functions of a financial nature should remain separate for the Environment Agency. 
One of the basic principles is that commitments and payment orders should not be made by the same person. 
However, during the period of establishment of the Agency in Copenhagen, the number of staff was so low that this principle could not be respected. 
This fact is rightly criticised by the Court of Auditors. 
In the case of the Environment Agency, the financial controller of the Agency and that of the Commission shall be the same person established in Brussels. 
This would significantly impede the Agency's work. 
The way out of this dilemma is to set up a paying agency. 
In principle, it works like a small cash reserve, although the amounts settled on it are quite significant. 
Instead of obtaining the prior recovery of financial control, the agent orders the disbursement and, once a month, sends the statement of the steps to be carried out by the paying agency for subsequent approval of the financial con-troll. 
On the one hand, this facilitates the work of the Paying Agency, but on the other hand it is also a double sword, since the internal control of the Agency and the Finance Department must be able to meet this additional responsibility. 
In this respect, the Court of Auditors' complaint is understandable, but as long as the financial controller is based in Brussels, the Agency does not see any alternative to an extensive use of the paying agency. · For this reason, the Agency has taken a great deal of attention to the Court's recommendation that the Commission would like to allocate a financial contribution to the Agency.Environmental Agency would welcome such a step. 
Computerised accounting system The Court of Auditors stressed the need for the Agency to introduce a modern accounting system that covers both general accounting and budgetary control. 
For the EU's complimented financial system, such a computer-based system is essential if one wants to avoid large amounts of money being tied through financial and budgetary work. 
The Environment Agency fully supports the conclusions of the Court of Auditors. 
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has repeatedly tried to find a solution to this problem. 
By the way, it is in the same form for the other EU agencies. 
In 1996, the Agencies issued a joint call for tenders, which remained unsuccessful, i.e. no satisfactory system was found. 
At the moment, the Agency is considering the possibility of using the new Sincom 2 budgetary control system. 
The planning foresees that it should be installed in time and ready for operation in order to implement the 1997 budget. 
However, there will continue to be a software for budgetary control and another for general accounting. 
Also, the pay-three will not be integrated into the software. The Agency will continue to look for an appropriate solution to these problems and will endeavour to coordinate this work with the other agencies. 
13. 3. 97 DE Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/49 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA-Lisbon), together with the Centre's replies (97IC 81/07) (period from 1 November 1994 to 31 December 1994). 1.1 This report was submitted to the Governing Board of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction pursuant to Article 11(11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 of 8 February 1993 n. 1.2. 
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995. 
In accordance with Article 11(8) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Director. 
This is in accordance with Article 11(10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 3294/94 of 22. December 1994 (3), also responsible for drawing up and presenting the invoice (4). 
In accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to audit such accounts. 
This is a report on the Centre's first audit. 
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards to the extent that they are applicable to the Community context. 
He has controls. Accounting and other audit procedures considered necessary in this context. 
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable, legality and legality. Overall, the regularity of the underlying transactions is ensured. (") OJ 
Main observations on the implementation of the budget of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Commission grant 1.5. 
In 1995, the Centre issued a recovery order for only 57 % of the grant (ECU 3 million) and recovered the corresponding appropriations. 
In the Court's view, the Centre should also have issued a recovery order for the ECU 2.3 million (totalling ECU 5.3 million) recorded in the balance sheet in order to meet the commitments carried over to 1996 (ECU 2,8 million). 
Aid from the Portuguese Government 1.6. 
An amount of ECU 614 015 (including interest) made available to the Observatory by the Portuguese Government for the establishment of the seat is not entered as revenue in the budget, but only in the balance sheet. 
Accounting for budgetary transactions 1.7. 
This may lead to overruns of funds. 
Paying Agency 1.8. 
During 1995, the Centre handled a large part (45 %) of its expenditure through paying agencies. 
The systematic application of the paying agency procedure is not compatible with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Centre, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure. 
Moreover, the accounts of this expenditure were delayed because the supporting documents had to be sent to the financial controller in Brussels. Transfers 1.9. 
In 1995, significant appropriations were transferred to 1996, i.e. ECU 2.8 million, representing 52 % of the Centre's budget. 
Some appropriations carried over from 1994 to 1995 (a total of ECU 4.607 million) had to be cancelled (ECU 0.368 million, i.e. 8 % of the appropriations carried over). 
Separation of tasks 1.10. 
Financial Controller 1.11. 
In view of the current situation, the internal control system could be improved by assigning a financial controller on the spot. at its meeting of 28 October 1996 in Luxem-For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI Edmann President 
13. 3. 97 I DE | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/51 Assets 1994 Fixed assets 1. Property, plant and equipment 0 2. Material and furniture 0 Operating values 1. Office supplies 0 Subtotal 0 Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected. 0 2. Aid to be recovered from 681 (ECU 1 000) 1995 Liabilities 1994 1995 Commission 3. V Received cash accounts 1. Bank accounts 3 049 0 1 3 050 0 2 350 4 2 354 2 162 0 7 566 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Result to be transferred Subtotal Transferred appropriations 1. Non-automatic transfers 2. Automatic transfers Subtotal 0 35 35 365-4 243 4 608 5 0 0 0 4 648 3 050 1294 4 344 1672 1063 2 735-99 388 0 388 7 566 debtors 0 Subtotal 681 3 967. 
Short-term 1. Salary deductions V liabilities Total liabilities 
2350 145 609 6 104 706 135 868 431 1 2 5 3 2 170 5 563 541 35 864 1440 Result to be transferred Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Centre. 157 4 608 4 765 35· 35 
13. 3. 97 | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/53 The following notes concern the most important observations of the Court of Auditors concerning the implementation of the EMCDDA budget for the 1994 and 1995 budget (points 1.5 to 1.11 of the Court of Auditors' budget). 
The EMCDDA agrees with the Court of Auditors' view that it would have been more appropriate to issue a recovery order for all the appropriations entered in the balance sheet as a grant to the Commission, and for the 1996 budget year, the EMCDDA has acted in accordance with the provisions of the Commission's financial commitment (which is also financial controller of the EMCDDA) within the meaning of Article 54 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and Article 82 of the Implementing Rules for the same (in accordance with the spirit of Article 142 of the Financial Regulation for the general budget of the European Communities). 
However, the EMCDDA is aware that this can only be a provisional system (based on Excel files) and that it needs a more efficient accounting system. 
In this context, the decentralised agencies (including the EMCDDA) launched a call for tenders under the coordination of the European Training Foundation in Turin at the end of December 1995 with the aim of equipping themselves with an integrated compu-ter-based system for general accounting and budget accounting. 
No C 81/54 | EN | Official Journal of the Communities 13. 3. 97 For the following financial years, the EMCDDA is implementing a plan for the programming and control of the implementation of the budget and its work programme, aimed at improving the use of the allocated appropriations and, in particular, limited transfers only to exceptional cases. f) separation of tasks (point 1.10 of the Court's observations) C Due to its very limited staffing in 1994 and 1995, the EMCDDA could not fully ensure compliance with the principle of separation of tasks, as pointed out by the Court of Auditors. 
The separation of the duties of the authorising officer, the authorising officer and the accounting officer, as required by Article 16 of the OEDT financial rules for the tasks of the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer, has been fully complied with. 
The EMCDDA is already trying to ensure the separation of tasks in the execution of the various tasks in question. 
In this context, it shall, as far as possible, take into account the requirements communicated by the Court of Auditors in defining its short-term staffing needs, in order to ensure that the administrative tasks mentioned by the Court (payment agency management, accounting, management of staff or contracts) are carried out by different persons. 
Proposals will be submitted to the EMCDDA Management Board. (g) Financial Controller (point 1.11 of the Court's observations) The EMCDDA's Management Board has taken a negative decision when adopting the EMCDDA's financial rules in June with regard to the transfer of the tasks of the financial controller to an EMCDDA staff member (in particular due to the European Commission's objection). 
Moreover, since the financial controller of the European Commission is the financial controller of the EMCDDA, it would be for the Commission, taking into account the rules on this issue in the other decentralised agencies, to verify the feasibility of the possible designation of a financial controller on the spot. 
Price ECU "L + C" paper edition (*) 700-"L + C" vacancy microfiches invitations to tender (*) 595-30 supplement to the Official Journal (tenders and public contracts) calendar year 1997 Paper edition CDROM 800-600-to 32 pages 6.50 to 64 pages 13-more than 64 pages BELGIQUE/BELGIE Moniteur beige/Belgisch Staatsblad Rue de Louvain 4042/Leuvenseweg 4042 ?1000 Bruxelles/Bnjssel Tél. 
(322) 552 22 11 Fax (322) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/Koningslaan 202 B1060 Bruxelles/Brussel Tél. 
(322) 538 51 69 Fax (322) 538 08 41 Email: jean.de.lannoy@infoboard.be Librairie européenne/Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/Wetstraat 244 B1040 Bruxelles/Brussel Tél. 
(322) 295 26 39 Fax 322 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 1012 DK2620 Albertslund Tlf. 
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 GERMANY Federal Gazette Verlag Breite Straße 7880 Postfach 10 05 34 D50667 Köln Tel. 
(49221)20 290 Fax 49221)20 29 278 GREECE/enterprises G.C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR105 64 Athens Tel. 
(301)331 41 80/1/2/3 Fax (301) 323 98 21 Email: elebooks@netor.gr s.s.s. It is necessary to ensure that it is necessary to ensure that it is necessary to ensure that it is necessary to ensure that it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 
(301) 331 41 80/1/2/3 ????a? (301 (323 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellň, 37 E28001 Madrid Tel. 
(341) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (341) 575 39 98 Email: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: viiww.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficial del Estado Trafalgar, 2729 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 45 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel. 
(3531)661 31 11 Fax (3531 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 150125 Firenze Tel. 
(3955)64 54 15 Fax (3955) 64 12 57 Email: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/ biblioVvetrina/Licosa/tt1.htm grandduché DE LUXEMBOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L2411 Luxembourg Tél. 
(352)40 10 20 Fax(352)490 661 E-mail: mdl@pt.lu subscriptions: Messageries Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L2339 Luxembourg Tél. 
Austria Manz'sche Verlags- und Universitätsbuchhandlung G mbh Siebenbrunnengasse 21 Postfach 1 A1050 Vienna Tel. 
(431)53 161 334/340 Fax (431) 53 161 339 E-mail: auslieferung@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa NacionalCasa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A 1050 Lisboa Codex Tel. 
(3511)353 03 99 Fax (3511) 353 02 94/384 01 32 Distribuidora de Livros Bertrand Ld.° Rua das Terras dos Vales, 4 A Apartado 60037 P2701 Amadora Codex Tel. 
(3511) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (3511) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlnen Kirjakauppa/Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoisesplanadi 39/-Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel. 
(3589)121 41 Fax (3589) 121 44 35 Email: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractor Vägen 11 PO Box 200 S22100Lund Tel. 
(4646)18 00 00 Fax (4646) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel. 
(44171)873 9090 Fax (44171) 873 8463 URL: www.tne­stationery­office.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blöndal Skólavördustig, 2 IS101 Reykjavik Tel.(354)5515 650 Fax 354 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 Etterstad N0606 Oslo Tel. 
(4722) 97 45 00 Fax 4722 97 45 45 SCHWEIZ/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH8035 Zurich Tel. 
(411)365 53 15 Fax (411) 365 54 11 Email: urs.leimbacher@ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKÂ REPUBLIKA NIS CR -prodejna Konviktskâ 5 CZ113 57Praha1 Tel. 
(422) 24 22 94 33 Fax (422) 24 22 94 33 Email: nkposp@dec.nis.cz URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY1509 Nicosia Tel. 
(3572) 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (3572) 361 044 E-mail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hŕz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H1396 Budapest 62 Tel. 
(361)11 16061/11 16216 Fax (361) 302 50 35 E-mail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel. 
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polena Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL00950 Warszawa Tel. 
(482)26 12 01 Fax (482) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Důnya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad. 
No: 469 TR80050 TünelIstanbul Tel. 
(90212)251 91 96 (90312)427 02 10 Fax (90212) 251 91 97 Balgarija EuropressEuromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel. 
(613)9417 53 61 Fax (613) 9419 71 54 CANADA Uniquement subscriptions/Subscriptions only: Renouf Publishing Co. Ltd 1294 Algoma Road K1B 3W8 Ottawa, Ontario Tel. 
(1613)741 73 33 Fax (1613) 741 54 39 Email: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/Renouf EGYPT The Middle East Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel. 
(813)3234 69 21 Fax (813)? 3234 69 15 E-mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi­japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146Sandton Tel. 
(2711)883 37 37 Fax (2711)883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611 F Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel. 
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) Email: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MÉXICO MundiPrensa Mexico, SA de CV RfoPânuco, 141 Delegation Cuauhtemoc ME06500 México DF Tel. 
(525) 553 56 58/60 Fax (525) 514 67 99 Email: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE Corée Kyowa Book Company 1 F1. 
Phyung HwaBldg 4112 Hap Jeong Dong, Mapo Ku 121220 Seoul Tél. 
Other COUNTRIES Please contact a sales office of your choice E28071 Madrid Tel. (341) 538 22 384 17 Fax (341) 538 23 384 17 URL: www.boe.es 95 (Libras)/15 (Suscripciones) 49 (Libros)/14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR10000 Zagreb Tel. 
(3851)43 03 92 Fax (3851) 44 40 59 ROMANIA Euromedia Str. 
(401) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax 401 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Knlznica Nŕmestie slobody 19 SLO81223 Bratislava 1 Tel. 
(427)53 18 364 Fax (427) 53 18 364 Email: europ@tbb1.sltk.stuba.sk SLOVENIA Gospodarski Vestnlk Zalozniska skupina d.d. 
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 Email: belied (c)gvestnik.si URL: www.gvesfnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel. 
(9723)546 14 23 Fax (9723) 546 14 42 Email: royil@netvision.net.il Subagent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel. 
9 117312 Moscow Tel.(095)135 52 27 Fax (095) 135 52 27 Mundi Prensa Barcelona Conseil de Cent, 391 E08009 Barcelona Tel. 
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 1 of 5 Avis juridique important 31997Y0313(06) Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies Official Journal C 081, 13/03/1997 P. 0043-0048 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/06) (For the period from 1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1. 
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1). 
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995. 
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accordance with the requirements of Article 13 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in accordance with the internal financial provisions set out in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts. 
This report constitutes the first audit of the Agency. 
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are applicable in the community context. 
The Court carried out checks on the accounts and records and also applied such additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary in this context. 
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are presented in the second part of this report. 
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the underlying operations were carried out, on the whole, in accordance with the rules concerning legality and regularity. 
Main observations concerning the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 The Commission subsidy 1.5. 
During the financial year 1995 the Agency used only part of the Commission subsidy provided for in the general budget (ECU 12 million, of which ECU 6,2 million was drawn down). 
It is the Court's opinion that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the financial year 1995 for the balance remaining due (ECU 5,8 million) in order to meet the commitments that were carried over to the financial year 1996. 
Spending in excess of available appropriations 1.6. 
Several cases of expenditure in excess of available appropriations, amounting to approximately ECU 0.4 million altogether, were found under titles I (staff expenditure) and II (administrative expenditure) of the budget. 
This http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 26/10/2010 
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 2 of 5 amount, which could not be charged to the budget for 1995, was entered on the assets side of the balance sheet in a suspense account, and had to be charged to the budget for the financial year 1996 (contravention of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation). 
Imprest account 1.7. 
Most all payments charged to the budget under titles I and II were made via an Imprest account. 
The utilisation of this account was not in accordance with Article 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, since the administrator of the Imprest accounts was, at the time, both the Accounting and the Authorising Officer for certain budget headings. 
Furthermore, the deadlines for the submission of supporting documents were not met and the availability of funds committed was not verified before payments were made. 
This situation seems to be the principal cause of the cases of spending in excess of available funds pointed out above. 
Appropriations carried forward 1.8. 
At the end of the financial year 1995, as was already the case at the end of the financial year 1994, the percentage of funds carried forward was very high in relation to the funds available (ECU 7 million-57.2 % of the total budget). 
The majority of these Carryovers concern title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6,4 million, representing 90.3 % of the funds under this title). 
A large share (ECU 1,8 million) of the funds carried over from 1994 to 1995, totalling ECU 8.5 million, had to be cancelled (21 % of the funds carried over). 
A posteriori referral to the Financial Controller 1.9. 
Several proposals for the commitment of funds totalling ECU 0,5 million were submitted, a posteriori, to the Financial Controller for his approval. 
In these cases, the Financial Controller withheld his approval, but this refusal was overruled by the Management Board. 
The Court wishes to emphaise the obligation to respect the Financial Regulation and to submit proposals for commitments in due form prior to 'any measure of a kind which might lead to expenditure from the budget' (Article 27 of the Agency's Financial Regulation). 
Separation of duties 1.10. 
The separation of duties within the administration of the Agency has not been observed. 
Due to a shortage of staff in the financial accounting department, the same person was, at one and the same time, Accounting Officer, administrator of the Imprest accounts and Authorising Officer for certain budget headings. 
Accounting systems 1.11. 
The budgetary accounting and general accounting are carried out on two independent and unconnected computer systems. 
The budgetary accounting system is, moreover, not programmed to refuse entries in the event of funds available, or appropriations committed, being exceeded. 
The Financial Controller 1.12. 
The Management Board appointed the Commission's Financial Controller as their own Financial Controller. 
The Court considers it would be advisable, in respect of the Agency's present mode of operation, to appoint a full-time Financial Controller for the Agency. 
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 28 October 1996. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 3 of 5 For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President >TABLE> >TABLE> >TABLE> (1) OJ L 120, 11. 5. 1990, p. 4. 
(2) Contrary to the requirements of Article 13 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts for all revenue and expenditure of the Agency in respect of the financial year 1995 were not prepared until 20 June 1996, the date on which the accounts were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and sent to the Commission, to the Board of Management and to the Court of Auditors. 
These accounts were received by the Court on 28 June 1996. 
The abridged version of these financial statements is presented in the tables annexed to this report. 
The AGENCY'S REPLIES The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994. 
A first budget of ECU 10,2 million was adopted already on 31 October 1994. 
Since the decision on where to locate the agency had been delayed a fast start was needed. 
Through a significant effort, projects could be identified and the budget committed before the end of the year, but for obvious reasons the execution of the commitments could barely start before the end of 1994. 
Thus, in 1995 the Agency faced the daunting task of executing, not only the budget from 1994 but also a new budget for 1995 of ECU 10,5 million, and this before the regular staff of the Agency had taken up duty. 
The vacant posts in the Agency were published in November 1994 and the selected candidates started coming on board in summer 1995 after a long selection procedure involving more than 7 000 applications. 
In short, the agency had an ambitious work programme and virtually two budgets to execute, but very limited staff for the task. 
Despite this, work went ahead and in 1995 the Agency finalised major projects, like the Dobris assessment, the review of the fifth environmental action plan. 
Five European topic centres were established and the build-up of the EIONET advanced. 
The build-up of the Agency progressed with regular staff increasing from 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, for example national experts and auxiliary staff) to 22 on 31 December 1995, still supported by 10 temporary staff. 
The Agency's Administration has progressively developed since the same open procedure to recruitment was applied. 
Nevertheless, it was clearly too understaffed in 1995 to handle the procedural and financial aspects of the work. 
On the finance side only one person was available to handle the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work programme during the first half of the year. 
In June 1995 the Head of Administration took up duty, and only in the beginning of 1996 did the rest of the finance and contract staff come on board. 
The Agency rose to the challenge, but some mistakes of a procedural nature were made in the areas of finance and budget. 
Overspending There was overspending on some budget lines. 
The reason was, on the one http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 
26/10/2010 
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 4 of 5 hand, that the Agency's budgetary monitoring system did not function in a satisfactory way and on the other hand some executed payments were not introduced due to the fact that the Agency was seriously understaffed in the finance department. 
As a consequence, when the accounts were closed, the discrepancy between the accounts and the payments actually made, showed up as overspending on some budget lines. 
Since no adjustment between budget lines can be made after 1 January, this has to be booked on the 1996 accounts, i.e. be financed from the 1996 budget. 
In 1996, the expenditures and the availability of funds in titles I and II, which was where the problems occurred in 1995, were carefully monitored in order to avoid overspending. 
Procedures overlooked (Saisine a posteriori) During the build-up of the Agency, a work programme was established and started being executed before administrative procedures had been well established and an administration in place to monitor that procedures were followed. 
In some cases this led to work being ordered and carried out without all the procedures being observed. 
In particular, work was contracted without the Financial Controller in Brussels having given his visa which is a prerequisite for this kind of operational expenditure. 
It was not a question of finances being wasted or that the finances were not there. 
The mistake was procedural and reflected that work had to be done and the procedures to assure that this was done according to Community rules were not yet in place. 
Procedures are now in place to avoid similar problems. 
A clear delegation of authorising powers have been established and staff informed of the rules. 
Separation of functions In the financial framework of the Agency, as is the case in all public institutions, certain functions should be kept separate. 
A basic principle is that the same person should not commit money and order payment. 
However, during the period of establishment of the Agency in Copenhagen the number of staff in the Agency was so small that it was not possible to observe this principle. 
This is rightly criticised by the Court of Auditors. 
However, once the staffing of the Agency started to increase this was corrected and these functions have been rigorously separated in the Agency since autumn 1995. 
Extensive use of Imprest accounts The normal procedure for committing and ordering payments in the EU-system is to have prior approval by the Financial Controller in practically all cases. 
In the case of the Agency, the Agency Financial Controller is the same as the Commission's and located in Brussels. 
To send all financial transactions to Brussels for approval before they could actually be executed would be an excessively tiresome procedure. 
It would seriously obstruct the working of the agency. 
The way out of this dilemma is the Imprest account. 
It works in principle as a petty-cash reserve although the amounts involved are important. 
Instead of seeking prior approval from Financial Control, the Agency executes the payment and once a month the Imprest account is sent to the Financial Controller to have the ex post approval of the payments which have been made. 
On the one hand this facilitates the functioning of the Agency, but, on the other hand, it is a double-edged sword since the Agency's internal controls and the financial department must have the capacity to handle this additional responsibility. 
So, the criticism by the Court of Auditors is understandable, but as long as http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 5 of 5 the Financial Controller is located in Brussels there, in the Agency's view no alternative to an extensive use of the Imprest account. 
It is therefore with great interest that the Agency has noted the recommendation by the Court of Auditors that the Financial Controller of the Commission should place a Financial Controller in the Agency. 
The Agency would welcome this step. 
Computerised financial system The Court of Auditors underlines the need for the Agency to find an up-to-date computerised financial system which can integrate the accounting side with the budget monitoring side. 
In the complicated financial system of the European Union such a computerised system is crucial to avoid having to tie down a lot of resources in financial and budgetary work. 
The Agency supports wholeheartedly the conclusion by the Court of Auditors. 
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has again and again tried to find a solution to this problem. 
It is a problem which the European Environment Agency shares with the other EU Agencies. 
In 1996, the Agencies launched a joint call for tenders to find a solution but this call for tenders has not been successful, i.e. no satisfactory system has been found. 
Thus, the Agency is at present pursuing the possibility of using the new budget monitoring system Sincom 2. The plan is to have it installed and operational in time to execute the 1997 budget on the basis of this system. 
There will be one software for the budget monitoring system and another for the general ledger. 
Nor will the Imprest accounts be integrated in the software the Agency will continue to look for an efficient way of solving these problems and will endeavour to coordinate this work with the other Agencies. 
Managed by the Publications Office http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 
C 309/24 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the annual accounts of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 2006, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/05) INSTALLING................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
1-2 25 REQUIREMENTS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
3-6 25 COMMENTS...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
26 responsesofthe Agency...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/25 INCLUDING 1. The European Environment Agency (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1). 
The Agency is responsible for the creation of an environmental monitoring network which provides the Commission, the Member States and the general public with information on the state of the environment. 
This information is intended in particular to give the European Union and the Member States the opportunity to take environmental protection measures and to assess the effectiveness of these measures. 
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's needs and activities. 
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information, essential information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2006. 
COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRODUCT 3. This statement shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2). It insists on a review of the Agency's invoice, which the Court must carry out in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st In accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the financial year ended was drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 and sent to the Court an explanation of the eligibility of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
5. The Court carried out its inspection in accordance with the guidelines for financial control and the INTOSAI's obligations and code of conduct, as well as the international professional background for IFACs, provided that they are applicable in the Community context. 
The inspection was planned and carried out in order to obtain reasonable security in order to ensure that the annual accounts are reluctant and that the underlying claims are legal and orderly. 
6. The Court has an appropriate basis for the following explanation of eligibility. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st year. The financial year ended in December 2006 is in all material respects. 
The following comments do not call into question the Court's discretion. 
COMMENTS 7. More than 30 % of the financial year's commitments had to be paid. 
In the case of operational expenditure (Title III and assigned revenue), more than the amount of appropriations was transferred. 
These statements were partly unjustified: In the last two months of 2006, the Agency made commitments of 1.3 million euros in hemp, but reported the corresponding payment appropriations to 2007. 
A random examination (4) of these reports showed that they related, without exception, to activities to be carried out in 2007. 
The budgetary principle of honor was therefore not strictly applied. 
8. The authorising officer subordinated not only carried out ex ante controls, but also managed the access rights to the electronic accounting system, which constitutes a breach of the principle of separation of tasks. 
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 27 September 2007 in Luxembourg. 
FR the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER Prsident (1) OJ L 120, 11.5.1990. (2) OJ 
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 29 May 2007 and received by the Court on 3 July 2007. 
(4) Value of the sample: around EUR 500 000. 
C 309/26 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community areas of competence under the Treaty of the Agency (Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990) governance structure 1. Resources available to the Agency for 2006 (information for 2005) Main products and services in 2006 Environmental policy Objectives Tasks of the final budget: Prelude (PRospective Environmental Analysis of Land Use Development in Europe) The Community's environmental policy aims at a high level of protection, taking into account the different circumstances in the various regions of the Community. 
It is based on the basic principles of prevention and prevention, on the principle of prioritising environmental impacts at their origin, and on the polluter pays principle (...). 
When drawing up its environmental policy (...), the Community shall take into account the available scientific and technical data (...). 
The introduction of a European environmental information and observation network and provision for the Community of objective, exclusive and comparable information to the Community and to the Member States of the necessary information for the preparation and implementation of appropriate and effective environmental measures; Composition 37.1 million euros (32.1 million euros), (Article 174 of the Treaty) cooperation in data harmonisation. 
Source: Information provided by the Agency and the Member States on the basis of which they collect, compile and evaluate data on the state of the environment and reporting on the quality and burdens of the environment in the territory of the Community; N two scientific personalities designated by the European Parliament. Staff at 31. December 2006 Publication of reports on, inter alia, transport and environment, agriculture and environment, energy and environment, bioenergy, air quality, greenhouse gas emissions, state of Europe's cough, spread of urban areas and management of natural resources. 115 (115), (b) evaluate the results of these measures, adopt the work programme and monitor its implementation. 110 (107). + 47 (34) Other posts (c) can ensure proper information to the public about the state of the environment. 
The comparability of environmental data at the European level and, where necessary, the strengthening of the harmonisation of measurement methods by appropriate means; 2. Executive Director From the Management Board on a proposal from (uxiliaries, seconded national experts, temporary staff). 
Seminars organised within the framework of the Council Presidency. N Consideration of European environmental information in international programmes; 3. Consultation Forum One representative of the Member States; Bert is responsible for the publication of a report on the state, development and perspectives of the environment every five years; 4. Scientific Advisory Board consists of particularly administrative activities in the field of the environment: 42 (42), the development of methods for forecasting in the field of the environment and methods for assessing the costs of environmental damage and the exchange of information on the technologies available for environmental damage; 5. External control of the European Court of Auditors. 
Development of methods for assessing the costs of environmental damage as well as costs for precautionary, protective and remediation measures in the field of the environment. 
Table 1 European Environment Agency (Copenhagen), one representative of the Member States, update of the European Pollutant Emissions Register (EPER). 
N two representatives of the Commission, Community grant: 75 % (84 %). 
Commission appointed. 
19.12.2007 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 309/27 Origin of revenue Raised revenue Assignment of Community expenditure 27 650 5 264 4 200 27 650 5 115 1 798 Title I Staff 16 013 2 926 2 912 15 692 2 623 8 681 308 13 508 386 122 Other receipts Other receipts Title II Objective expenditure 283 19 895 836 59 Total income 37 114 34 563 Total 27 352 Supplements intangible assets 330 5 633 tangible assets 1 866 456 1 649 Operating expenses Short-term receivables 2 611 13 423 Long-term claims 494 personnel expenses Other administrative expenses Operating expenses 14 500 795 4 843 15 000 35 138 462 72 7 66 528 621 4 700 15 618 34 363 363 Đ1830 29 7 22 Đ1808 Cash and cash equivalents (2) 6 097 Income Expenditure Expenditures of the final budget of the financial year entered in the final budget of the financial year Total appropriations/losses from operating activities (c = a Đ b) Clearance liabilities 7 779 5 016 Revenues arising from financial transactions (e) Expenditure from financial transactions (f) Net income/losses from non-operating activities (g) = e Đ f) Economic result of the year (h = c + g) cumulative consumption/losses 4 242 Economic result for the financial year 528 net balances total 4 770 liabilities and net amounts total 12 548 Đ 6 050 1 808 4 242 9 258 (1) Recovery of property taxes 2000-2004 (EUR 905 000). Total (a) 35 601 0 Circulation 32 533 Short-term pre-financing (1) 1 151 598 1 581 482 4 491 9 258 Title III Operational expenditure 13 975 4 200 37 114 13 971 771 781 777 5 290 4 844 4 925 36 4 069 2 167 7 639 3 671 398 931 115 5 824 694 Assigned revenue 356 2006 2006 Investments 2005 (EUR 1 000) (EUR 1 000) Table 2 European Environment Agency (Copenhagen) This table summarises the information provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. The revenue collected and payments are saved according to the cash-based accounting method. 
(2) Recovery of property taxes 2000-2004 (EUR 905 000). 
C 309/28 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANTWORT OF THE AGENTUR The present share of payments to 2007 is mainly due to incidents of exceptional importance in 2006, which prompted us to postpone interim payments to thematic centres until the satisfactory delivery of the services. 
The proposed budget commitments were the obligation to conclude licensing agreements before 1 January of each year in order to maintain the continuity, as well as the time needed to determine and negotiate the costs and time for complex new work. 
The Agency will continue to endeavour to reduce the proportion of transfers in this context. 
The risks associated with the situation described were assessed by the management and controls were carried out to mitigate the risks. 
The remaining risk is considered acceptable. 
This situation will be reassessed as part of a review of safety sensitive tasks to take place in mid-2007. 
C 309/40 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the annual accounts of the European Agency for Reconstruction for the financial year 2006, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/08) INSTALLING................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
1-2 41 REQUIREMENTS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
3-6 41 COMMENTS...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
42 responsesofthe Agency......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/41 INCLUDING 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96(1), most recently gendert by Council Regulation (EC) No 756/2006 of 28 November 2006 (2). 
The Agency, established in 2000, had the original mandate to manage the European Union assistance programmes in Kosovo. 
Spter was also extended to Serbia-Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 
The Agency is implementing institutions building and good governance programmes to support the development of the market economy and basic infrastructures for civil society. 
The Agency's mandate is, in principle, to be held on 31 December. The end of December 2008. 
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information, essential information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2006. 
COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRODUCT 3. This endorsement shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (3). 
It insists on a review of the Agency's invoice, which the Court must carry out in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st Financial year ended in December 2006 (4) was drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 8(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5) and sent to the Court, who provides an explanation of the eligibility of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st year The financial year ended in December 2006 is in all material respects. 
The following observations do not call into question the Court's assessment of eligibility. 
COMMENTS 7. The budget implementation rate was satisfactory. 
However, the Agency will be alerted to the extent of the funds still to be committed, which will require special monitoring of the Agency's programmes as its mandate is exhausted at the end of 2008. 
8. With regard to the accounting system and the internal control system, the Court noted improvements over previous years, in particular as regards the monitoring of funds managed by external bodies and the application of procurement procedures. 
FR the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER Prsident (1) OJ L 204, 14.8.1996, p. 1. 
L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18. 
L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. 
(4) The annual accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 6 July 2007. 
L 306, 7.12.2000, p. 7. 
C 309/42 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community areas of competence under the Treaty of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5. (December 2000) Management structure The Agency shall carry out measures for economic, financial and technical cooperation with third parties within the framework of its obligations (information for 2005) Products and services in 2006. 
These measures are taken by the Member States and are consistent with the Community's development policy. 
Objectives Scope Tasks Management Board of final budget According to operational centres (most important developments): (Article 181 a) Operations centres in Belgrade, Pristina, Podgorica and Skopje with broad administrative autonomy. 
The Agency manages the main assistance programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). States, territorial units under the administration of the United Nations, fderal, regional and local districts, public and semi-public institutions, social partners, business organisations, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organisations. 
108 (114) posts provided for in the establishment plan, (iii) supporting the development of a market economy and continuing investments in basic infrastructures and environmental protection measures; Other posts: (IV) supporting social development and strengthening civil society. 
Discharge charge of contract staff: 29 (28) posts, of which 26 (26) are occupied. 
External control of staff: 164 (170) posts, filled posts: 157 (162). 
Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Court of Auditors. SERBIA: draft legislation on public administration reform; B) supply of equipment to the border police; C) Completion of a state-of-the-art DNA laboratory; D) Renovation and equipment for dishes; e) Renovation programme for patients; job creation through loans from the Revolving Credit Fund; g) Company training measures; h) regional training programmes for adults; economic development programmes for the most urban administrations; a new border mountain with Hungary and Croatia; renewal of municipal infrastructure; reform of the statistical office; support in the management of direct foreign investment; N) support of guided groups, including minorities and returnees; O) completion of projects for the refurbishment of electricity plants; P) Installation of an air filter in Kostolac's electrical plant. 
Euro Euro) 19.12.2007 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 309/43 Community areas of competence under the Treaty of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5. (December 2000) Management structure of the Agency (information for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Source: Information from the Agency. 
MONTENEGRO: a) construction of the international airport of Podgorica and modernisation of the airport of Tivat; B) central IT database for the Ministry of Interior; C) Support of the Agency for Human Resources Management; D) Creation of a new Stra§enbau-Behrde and a new traffic law; e) Unbundling/restructuring of public electricity companies, energy efficiency strategy; F) Establishment of an environmental protection agency; g) Management consulting for companies; support for the training centre for the judiciary; I) Penal reform; support for the development of a strategy for agriculture and development. 
C 309/44 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Origin of revenue Raised revenue Allocation of Community expenditure 24 795 20 200 Titles I Personnel 18540 17304 17117 187 1236 495 385 109 19035 17304 17502 187 1345 47 6755 4705 4651 507 Revenue Expenditures appropriations entered in the final budget of the financial year Other revenue p.m. 
The revenue collected and payments are saved according to the cash-based accounting method. (EUR 1 000) 
C 309/46 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANTWORTEN DER AGENTUR 7. The Agency has a very accelerated procedure for the implementation of assistance programmes. 
The last allocation to the Agency for the assistance amounted to EUR 250 million in 2006, which will be distributed over a period of three years, i.e. until 2009. 
In the first six months of 2007, the Agency received EUR 185 million in aid, representing 74 % of a year's budget. 
Therefore, the balance to be awarded at the end of the mandate is expected to be low. 
C 311/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the annual accounts of the European Agency for Reconstruction for the financial year 2007, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/07) INSTALLING................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
1-2 43 ADDITIONAL CONTROL........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
3-6 43 COMMENTS...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
45 responsesofthe Agency......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/43 INCLUDING 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96(1), most recently gendert by Council Regulation (EC) No 1756/2006 of 28 November 2006 (2). 
Spter has also extended its mandate to Serbia and Montenegro as well as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 
The Agency is implementing institutions building and good governance programmes to support the development of the market economy and basic infrastructures and to strengthen civil society. 
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's needs and activities. 
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information, essential information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007. 
COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRODUCT 3. This endorsement shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (3). 
It relies on the audit of the Agency's invoice, which the Court must carry out in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st Financial year ended in December 2007 (4) was drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 8(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5) and sent to the Court, who provides an explanation of the eligibility of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
5. The Court carried out its inspection in accordance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Officers (ISSAI) and the International Professional Foundations for the IFAC(6), provided that they are applicable in the Community context. 
The inspection was planned and carried out in order to obtain reasonable security in order to ensure that the annual accounts are reluctant and that the underlying claims are legal and orderly. 
L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18. 
L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. 
(4) The annual accounts were drawn up on 10 July 2008 and received by the Court on 16 July 2008. 
(6) ISSAI stands for International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC stands for the International Federation of Accountants. 
6. The Court has an appropriate basis for the following declaration of eligibility: The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st year The financial year ended in December 2007 is well known in all material respects. 
The following comments do not call into question the Court's discretion. 
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to EUR 250,2 million against EUR 268.8 million in the previous year. 
Although the implementation rate of the budget was satisfactory at the end of the year, the Agency allocated at that time over unused appropriations (453 million euro) for operational activities, namely 163 million euro that had not yet been committed and EUR 290 million for payments on existing commitments. 
As the Agency's activities are set up over several years, some of them will have to be carried out beyond 2008 (the Agency's last year of existence). 
8. The Agency's mandate ends on 31. December 2008. 
On 24 April 2008, the European Commission adopted a decision approving the programmes previously managed by the Agency, and on 11 June 2008 it received a note containing instructions and guidelines for the submission of the programme and contract documents. 
This note does not cover any items of the Agency's merging intention. 
The Agency and the Commission must sign an agreement approved by the Agency's Management Board in order to regulate the transfer of smt programmes and posts of the Agency. 
This facilitates the transfer of items and ensures that they are correctly reported in the Agency's annual accounts. 
C 311/44 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 9. In the merging view of the 31st In December 2007, a cumulative margin of EUR 180 million reflected, in large part, the amount received by the Commission for pre-financing paid by the Agency on the basis of contracts and grant agreements. 
These should also be subject to the administrative responsibility of the European Commission at the end of the Agency's mandate. 
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 18 September 2008 in Luxembourg. 
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 311/45 Community areas of competence under the Treaty of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5. December 2000) Management structure 1. Administrative appropriations made available to the Agency for 2007 (indications for 2006) Activities and services in 2007 The Community carries out measures for economic, financial and technical cooperation with third parties within the scope of its obligations. 
These measures are taken by the Member States and are in line with Community development policy. 
Objectives Scope Tasks of the final budget: According to operational centres (most important developments): KOSOVO: (Article 181a) Administration, strengthening of institutions and the rule of law; On a proposal from the Commission, the Commission has decided to carry out all the measures necessary for the implementation of Community assistance. 
Operational Ttigkei-b) provision of equipment and support of police and border guard police, support of the juvenile prison; development and strengthening of civil society. 163 (171), c) Introduction of per capita premia in primary health care institutions; The Agency manages the main assistance programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 
States, territorial units under the administration of the United Nations, fderal, regional and local districts, public and semi-public institutions, social partners, business organisations, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organisations. 
One representative per Member State, two representatives of the Commission and one observer from the European Investment Bank. 
EUR 250,2 million (EUR 268.8 million) (a) socio-economic development assistance to minorities; Council Court of Auditors, of which 27 (26). 4. Total staff responsible for discharge: 264 (273) a) elaboration of legislation for the reform of public administration; Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Other posts: the privatisation of public utilities; Staff members: 165 (164) posts of which: 154 (157) g) sustainable forestry and spawning use; administrative activities: 101 (102). d) Support for privatisation and business training measures; support for civil society and the media; SERBIA: 
MONTENEGRO: supporting the integration of refugees and internally displaced persons and supporting civil society organisations; B) Strictness of environmental management; C) Improvement of road infrastructure in coastal areas; D) Supporting the reform of the public administration: Police and penitentiary; e) Unbundling/restructuring of public electricity companies, energy efficiency strategy; F) Management consulting for companies; system for the identification and registration of animals and management of fishery resources. 
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: support in the context of partnerships in the area of money laundering, corruption and organised crime, statistics, air quality, financial control; completion of the establishment of a national animal identification system; increasing the performance of SMEs and setting up a Human Resources Development Fund; Developing a national transport strategy; support for civil society organisations and communities; support for the disposal of industrial problem zones, wastewater treatment at municipal level and waste management and their risks to health care; support in the planning of the instrument for assistance; g) Support in the implementation of professional standards in business administrations. 
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 311/47 Origin of revenue entered in the financial year Raised revenue Assignment of expenditure Grant from the Commission 24 559 p.m. 
23 960 4 743 Title I Personnel 187021786917540 330 832 187 0 133 54 18889 17869 17673 330 886 36 6364 4768 4770 469 1125 Other revenue Title II Administration 5857 4768 4299 469 1089 507 0 471 Assigned revenue 225 642 222 461 Title III Operational expenditure 13727 3031 120 13607 0 678806 276086 236172 439217 3417 692533 279117 236292 236292 452824 3417 Total 250 201 251 164 Total 38286 25668 21959 14406 1921 679500 276086 236776 439217 3507 717786 301754 258735 453623 5428 Revenue Expenditures Expenditures in the final budget of the final budget Still available appropriations (from the financial year and the previous year) Table 2 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) financial year 2007 out-out-out-out-out-null-ass the pay-beared-failed-to-fail the pay-behind the pay-behind the pay-carryed source: Information from the Agency. 
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
The revenue collected and the payments are saved according to the method of cash-based accounting. 
C 311/48 DE Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 of the European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Viewing the economic result for the financial years 2007 and 2006 5.12.2008 Operational contributions Community contributions Other operating expenses Personnel expenses Other administrative expenses Operating expenses Operating expenses Total (a) 2007 255 537 1 243 256 780 16 724 412 512 525 525 568 248 158 8 622 36 Đ36 8 586 (EUR 1 000) 2006 273 192 239 273 432 16 164 581 5 510 247 269 764 3 668 25 25 3 643 Total (b) credits/losses from operating activities (c = a Đ b) Expenditure from financial transactions (d) credits/losses from non-operating activities (e = Đ d) Economic result of the year (f = c + e) Source: Information from the Agency. This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method. 
Table 4 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) December 2007 and 31 December 2007 December 2006 Investments Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Long-term receivables Current debt Short-term pre-financing Short-term receivables Cash and cash equivalents Short-term liabilities Receivables for risks and liabilities Settlement liabilities Reserve cumulative/losses Economic result for the year Total liabilities Net capital 2007 41 529 3 618 179 810 30 329 41 499 255 826 1 189 79 108 80 297 175 529 166 943 8 586 175 529 (EUR 000) 2006 70 743 10 175 166 885 24 562 51 991 254 425 1 986 85 496 87 482 166 943 163 300 3 643 166 943 Source: Information from the Agency. This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/49 ANTWORTEN OF THE AGENTURY 7. At the end of 2007, the Agency was able to continue with commitments and payments for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 annual programmes, given the multi-annual nature of the CARDS programmes. 
For CARDS, the deadline for commitment is 2009 and 2010 for disbursement. 
The cost of these three programmes, which had not yet been completed, amounted to EUR 1.8 billion. 
The fact that EUR 163 million (9 %) are still committed and a total of EUR 453 million (25 %) still to be paid out three years before the CARDS deadline shows a very high rate of delivery. 
The Court praised the Agency's performance in its Special Report No 5/2007 (OJ C 285, 27.11.2007, p. 1). 
8. The agency is doing everything in its power to successfully carry out this transfer. 
It is in the process of drafting agreements for the sale of counterparts from their merging with various EU institutions. 
In addition, the Agency is in contact with the Commission in order to formally regulate merciful aspects of the transfer and will submit the result to the Management Board for approval. 
C 311/20 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the annual accounts of the European Aviation Safety Agency for the financial year 2007, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/04) INSTALLING................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
1-2 21 REQUIREMENT.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
3-6 21 COMMENTS...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
23 Responsesofthe Agency...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/21 INCLUDING 1. The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2002 (1). 
The main tasks of the Agency are the maintenance of a high level of civil aviation safety, the performance of the proper development of civil aviation safety, the preparation of approval specifications and the issuing of certificates for aeronautical products. 
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's needs and activities. 
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information, essential information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007. 
COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRODUCT 3. This statement shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2). It relies on the audit of the Agency's invoice, which the Court must carry out in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st Financial year ended in December 2007 (3) was drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 49 of Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and sent to the Court, who provides an explanation of the eligibility of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
5. The Court carried out its inspection in accordance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Officers (ISSAI) and the International Professional Foundations for the IFAC(4), provided that they are applicable in the Community context. 
L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1. 
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 30 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008. 
(4) ISSAI stands for International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC stands for the International Federation of Accountants. 
6. The Court has an appropriate basis for the following declaration of eligibility: The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st year The financial year ended in December 2007 is well known in all material respects. 
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to EUR 72.0 million against 66.0 million euros in the previous year. 
The Agency's budget shall be financed from fees and fees for the issuance or modification of approvals or certificates and authorisations by the Agency, as well as from the Commission's contribution. 
8. The establishment plan for 2007 included 467 temporary staff posts, representing an increase of 139 posts against the establishment plan for 2006. 
Since the appropriations for staff expenditure did not cover actual staff expenditure, the Agency decided to reduce the number of recruitments and agreed with the Commission to limit the number of posts to a maximum of 342, of which 333 were filled at the end of the year. 
However, the establishment plan has not been adapted accordingly. 
The Agency should carefully assess the validity of the expenditure proposals submitted for adoption to the budgetary authority. 
9. In line with the new Rules on Remuneration (5) in force since 1 June 2007, the Agency classified appropriations of 14.9 million euro as assigned revenue to cover the cost of issuing licences or certificates. 
However, this amount was overestimated as it also includes fees levied in accordance with the provisions of the old Detention Regulations. 
(5) Commission Regulation (EC) No 593/2007 of 31 May 2007 
C 311/22 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 10. In the case of a procurement procedure, the situation for tenderers was opaque due to the lack of clear and complete information on the award criteria and their respective weightings and the method for financial evaluation on the other. 
In three other cases (1), a restricted procedure was carried out following a call for expressions of interest, although the total value of the services to be provided was above the threshold beyond which an open procedure must be initiated. 
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 24 and 25 September 2008 in Luxembourg. 
FR the Court of Auditors Vtor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Prsident (1) EUR 2.5 million over a four-year period. 
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 311/23 Community areas of competence under the Treaty of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the Parliament and of the Council) Management structure The Agency's 2007 management structure (information for 2006) Products and services Common transport policy Objectives to be taken by the Agency 1. Management Board composed of one representative per Member State and one representative of the Commission; it shall establish an advisory body of interested parties. 
Final budget: Comments: The Council, acting by a qualified majority, may decide whether, to what extent and in accordance with which procedures, appropriate rules for maritime and aviation are to be adopted. Maintaining a uniform, high level of safety in civil aviation safety in Europe and carrying out the proper maintenance and further development of civil aviation safety. 
(Article 80 of the Treaty) International cooperation: Source: Information from the Agency. 
N elaboration of approval specifications, including air pollution codes and acceptable means of proof, as well as any guidance on the application of Community policy; 2. Executive Director Heads the Agency and shall be appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Commission. 
55.8 (33,2) million euro (65 %), Community grant: 26.5 (31.4) Mil-17 amendments to certificates: Specifications (15) and acceptable detection methods and instructions (2). 
Contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany (Federal Ministry of Transport) and the City of Kln: 0.3 (1.2 million euros). 
Changes to working arrangements with the Interstate Aviation Committee (USA) and JCAB (Japan); To carry out inspections to monitor standardisation in the Member States; 4. External control 467 (328) Temporary staff posts in establishment plan, approval decisions as at 31.12.2007: Carry out the necessary investigations in companies. 
European technical specifications: 198 Court of Auditors. 
Additional type-certificates: 879 total staff: 362 (309) of which account for operational activities: 277 (227), administrative activities: 57 (57), other activities: 28 (25). 
C 311/24 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue entered in the final budget of the financial year raised revenue Assignment of expenditure from previous year(s) transferred Own revenue 42 800 26 530 40 967 26 530 Title I Staff posted 33 624 33 086 paid 32 152 cancelled 934 538 payable 286 disbursed 243 annulled 43 Community contributions Other contributions and amounts 1 879 2 593 Title II Benefits 9 819 27 766 9 564 27 155 7 968 9 956 1 596 255 17 199 611 2 585 16 381 2 504 14 238 81 2 143 Assigned revenue from fees and charges collected p.m. 
836 14 865 326 Assigned revenue from fees and charges collected p.m. 
14 865 326 0 326 14 865 0 500 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assigned revenue Other assigned revenue 836 Total 72 045 85 281 Total 72 045 84 996 50 402 35 094 1 414 19 252 16 985 267 Revenues Expenditure of the final budget NB: Because of the rounded betrge, there may be divergences in the sums. 
Source: Information from the Agency. 
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Aviation Safety Agency (Kln) 5 670 605 17 588 6 258 (EUR 1 000) 2006 35 173 26 401 2 021 340 63 935 23 778 573 6 436 27 798 58 586 5 349 263 19 244 5 593 Total (b) credits/losses from non-operating activities (c = a Đ b) Income from financial transactions (e) Expenditures from financial transactions (f) credit/loss from non-operating activities (g = eĐ f) Economic result of the year (h = c + g) Source Information from the Agency. 
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method. Table 4 European Aviation Safety Agency (Kln) December 2007 and 31 December 2007 December 2006 (EUR 1 000) 2006 268 1 719 0 0 13 881 24 056 39 924 639 30 663 31 302 8 622 3 029 5 593 8 622 Investment assets Intangible fixed assets Current assets Short-term pre-financings Stock-up 0 Short-term receivables Cash and cash equivalents Short-term liabilities rectifications for risks and liabilities Clearance liabilities Reserves cumulative/losses total liabilities Total liabilities Net capital 0 21 820 36 659 60 295 797 44 618 45 415 14 880 822 6258 14 880 2007 274 1 542 Source: Information from the Agency. 
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method. 
C 311/26 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 ANTWORTEN OF THE AGENTURY 8. During the first two years of implementation of the Fee Rules, the Agency's revenue was not sufficient to cover the total estimated costs. 
Therefore, as a precaution, the Agency has decided to restrict its attitudes. 
This was reflected in the Staff Policy Plan 2008-2010, which was agreed with the Commission. 
9. In 2007 in the transition phase, the old and the new rebate regulations were applied in the same way. 
The calculation of assigned revenue from the fees and charges is in accordance with Article 64(5) of the basic Regulation (EC) No 216/2008, which states that the fees and charges, including revenue collected in 2007, are assigned revenue. 
In fact, the basic regulation does not provide for the exclusion of fees collected under the previous regulation. 
The exact calculation method was submitted to the Committee on Budgets of the Management Board (28 May 2008). 
10. The Agency is fully aware of the need to strictly comply with the Commission's procurement rules. 
It will pay particular attention to informing potential tenderers exactly about the award criteria and their evaluation. 
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/55 REPORT on the annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency for the financial year 2006, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/10) INSTALLING....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
1-2 ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
3-6 COMMENTS.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
The Agency.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Point on page 56 56 56 58 61 
C 309/56 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 INCLUDING 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter 'the Agency') was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 (1). 
The Agency's tasks include the achievement of a high level of safety in maritime transport, the supply of pollution from ships, the scientific and technical support of the Member States and the Commission, as well as the monitoring of the application of Community legislation and the assessment of their effectiveness. 
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's needs and activities. 
COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRODUCT 3. This statement shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It insists on a review of the Agency's invoice, which the Court must carry out in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st Financial year ended in December 2006 (3) was drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and sent to the Court, who provides an explanation of the eligibility of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
5. The Court carried out its inspection in accordance with the guidelines for financial control and the INTOSAI's obligations and code of conduct, as well as the international professional background for IFACs, provided that they are applicable in the Community context. 
L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1. 
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 27 June 2007. 
6. The Court has an appropriate basis for the following explanation of eligibility. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st year The financial year ended in December 2006 is in all material respects. 
COMMENTS 7. More than 43 % of payments had to be cancelled at the end of 2006. 
In addition, there was a surge in advances in the last quarter of the year, which did not strictly respect the budgetary principle of budgetary truth. 
8. The drafting of the budget and the establishment plan did not deal with the ngent przision, resulting in a high number of appropriations (4), inadequate recruitment planning (5) and an incorrect presentation of the budget (6). 
9. Legal commitments were made before the corresponding commitments were made (7). 
Some contracts provided for 100 % pre-financing, which is not in line with the principle of sound financial management (8). 
(4) More than 35 budget transfers in 2006. 
(5) The non-failure of the recruitment targets resulted in a transfer of appropriations in which budget line 1 100 (basic bidders) was reduced by 1.2 million euro. 
(6) The budget includes a view on the payments due to commitments made in previous financial years in the next financial years (Article 31(2)(c) of the Agency's Financial Regulation). 
(7) Four Flles totalling around EUR 345 000. 
(8) Article 67 of the Financial Regulation (Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23. December 2002). 
19.12.2007 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 309/57 10. The inventory management system shows weaknesses in the existence of all the objects. 
They are on; on the basis of the records it is not possible, the Tatsch IT equipment is not recorded in the system. 
C 309/58 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Source: Information from the Agency. Areas of Community competence under the Treaty of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002, gendered by Regulations (EC) No 1644/2003 of 22 July 2003 and (EC) No 724/2004 of 31. Mr. 2004) Management structure 1. Management Board of the Agency for 2006 (information for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Common transport policy Objectives Tasks of the final budget 2006: Number of specifications and instructions: 49 (including reports and/or studies). aThe Council, acting by a qualified majority, may decide whether, to what extent and according to which procedures appropriate provisions for maritime and aviation are to be adopted. 
The achievement of a high, uniform and effective level of safety in maritime transport and in dealing with pollution by ships; Assisting the Commission in the further development of Community legislation and its application; Composition (Article 80 of the Treaty) and the scientific and technical support of the Member States and the Commission; Tasks 132 (95) posts, seminars, trainings & workshops foreseen in the establishment plan: 59 (102 days and 1 440 participants). 
Monitoring the application of Community legislation and assessing the effectiveness of existing measures; Cooperate with the Member States to develop technical solutions and support the application of Community legislation; 111 (80). N Introduction of Operational Methods for Compressing the Pollution of European Shipyards. 
Total number of staff: 131 (100), monitoring the functioning of the Community rules on port state control, which may include visits to the Member States; One representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four non-voting representatives of the sectors concerned. 
Inspections/Examinations: 47 (over 600 mission days). technical support of the Commission with regard to port State control; Adoption of the budget and adoption of the work programme; of which: Promoting cooperation between the neighbouring States of the maritime areas concerned; 2. Executive Director From the Management Board to advance cooperation between Member States and the Commission in developing a common methodology for the investigation of seaweeds; 3. External control of the Court of Auditors, of which operational Ttigkei-shall provide information on maritime safety and pollution by ships to the Commission and the Member States; ten: 83 (65), administrative activities: Assisting the Commission and the Member States in identifying and tracking ships that have carried out illegal discharges; Review the EU-recognised classification societies and submit relevant reports to the Commission; N assisting the Commission in recording and carrying out the tasks related to the Directive on ship delivery; N forwards information on the introduction to the Commission of the directive on port reception facilities for vessels entering the European Hfens. 
Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) 
4. Discharge procedure 41 (27), other activities: 7 (8). 
Staff at 31. December 2006: Bungen on the high seas (operational activities): 7. 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/59 Origin of revenue Collected revenue Assignment of Community expenditure 44 738 32 030 Titlel I Personnel (NGM) 13 459 2 972 12 705 2 550 10 387 1 944 664 606 2 408 422 161 62 99 333 248 85 Other revenue 0 362 VE 28 308 28 308 44 738 44 738 19 033 0,00 0 11 638 0 23 969 0 9 275 16 669 12 105 19 499 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 969 0 975 16 669 12 105 19 499 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 altogether 44 738 32 392 A total of appropriations entered in the final budget of the financial year 34 287 0 1 270 1 270 494 310 184 revenue Expenditure of the final budget for the financial year Non-differentiated appropriations (the commitments correspond to payments). 
GM: Differentiated appropriations (the commitments do not have to correspond to payments). 
ZE: Payment appropriations under separate appropriations. 
Title II Non-material expenditure (NGM) Title III Operational expenditure (GM) Table 2 European Maritime Safety Agency This table summarises the information provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
C 309/60 DE Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 of the European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) (EUR 1 000) 2005 15 666 0 15 666 6 099 151 2 042 2 925 11 217 4 439 0 3 Đ3 4 435 Total (b) credits/losses from operating activities (c = a Đ b) income from financial transactions (e) Expenditure from financial transactions (f) over/(losses) from non-operational activities (g = e Đ f) Economic result of the financial year (h = c + g) (1) signature of new contracts for tankers. 
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) December 2006 and 31 December 2006. December 2005 Investments Intangible assets 55 Property, plant and equipment 523 Current short-term pre-financings Short-term debts Cash and cash equivalents Short-term liabilities receivables for risks and liabilities Settlement liabilities Net amount of accumulated assets/losses Economic result for the financial year Total liabilities 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 191 12 111 12 301 7 185 2 157 5 028 17 330 2006 (EUR 1 000) 2005 69 455 5 351 105 8 866 14 847 107 7 555 7 661 2 750 4 435 7 185 14 847 Net total liabilities and net pooling total Source: This table summarises the information provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method. 
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/61 ANTWORTEN DER AGENTUR 7. More than 50 % of the Agency's budget was used to prevent environmental pollution. 
In this area, the Agency launched calls for tenders with regard to the award of four tenders for vessels specifically barred to pollution. 
Towards the end of this process, two companies decided to withdraw their bids at the last moment, so that only two contracts could be awarded. 
This led to the cancellation of payment transactions in a significant amount at the end of the year. 
8. The move of the Agency from Brssel to Lisbon in 2006 had an impact on the budget, which was difficult to predict, including the departure of nearly 20 % of the recruited staff. 
9. The procedures for avoiding deferred commitments will be tightened. 
The conditions of pre-financing shall be revised in accordance with the Court's remark. 
10. ABAC Assets' disposal of the old inventory management system in June 2007 leads to the resolution of the problems raised by the Court. 
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 311/57 REPORTs on the annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency for the financial year 2007 together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/09) INSTALLING................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
Point on page 58 58 60 63 
C 311/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 INCLUDING 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter 'the Agency') was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 (1). 
The Agency's tasks include the achievement of a high level of safety in maritime transport, the supply of pollution from ships, the technical support of the Member States and the Commission, as well as the monitoring of the application of Community legislation and the assessment of their effectiveness. 
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information, essential information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007. 
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st Financial year ended in December 2007 (3) was drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and sent to the Court, who provides an explanation of the eligibility of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 11 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008. 
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to EUR 48.2 million against EUR 44.7 million in the previous year. 
The Agency's budget is mainly financed by the European Commission. 
The procedures for drawing up the budget have not been handled strictly enough. 
This resulted in a high number of transfers (5), an incorrect presentation of the budget (6) and the irregular change of the source of funding in the measures taken to address pollution (7). 
8. Legal commitments were made before the corresponding commitments were made (8). 
(5) More than 32 budget transfers in 2007. 
(6) In the case of differentiated appropriations, the budget must include a view on the payments due to commitments made in previous financial years in the next financial years (Article 31(2)(c) of the Agency's Financial Regulation). 
(7) From mid-June to December, 25 million euros for measures taken to address pollution were granted by the budgetary authority as a reasonable amount (C1) to the assigned revenue (R0). 
(8) Three fines with a total value of EUR 208 000. 
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 311/59 9. As regards the audited recruitment procedures, selection criteria and the minimum number of points required for admission to the next stage of the selection procedure had not been established before the start of the evaluation process. 
At no time have members of the Staff Committee been invited by the appointing authority to participate in the recruitment procedures. 
This approach did not ensure transparent and non-discriminatory procedures. 
Community matters arising from the Treaty of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council, gendered by Regulations (EC) No 1644/2003 and (EC) No 724/2004) governance structure 1. Management Board of the Agency for 2007 (information for 2006) Products and services in 2007 Common transport policy Objectives Tasks of the final budget: (incomplete list; the Council, acting by a qualified majority, may decide whether, and in accordance with which procedures, appropriate rules for maritime and aviation are to be adopted; Assisting the Commission in the further development of Community legislation and its application; Composition Title I: EUR 15 320 297 (EUR 13 400 000) (Article 80 of the Treaty) Total: EUR 48 249 058 (EUR 44 738 440) Technical support of the Commission with regard to port State control; Title III: EUR 29 749 058 (EUR 28 433 440) Preparation of the technical specifications of the new THETIS project; Monitor the application of the Community legislation and assess the effectiveness of existing measures; Adoption of the budget and adoption of the work programme; Temporary staff and permanent staff: 153 (132) Introduction of operational methods for the contamination of pollution in euro-based fishing vessels. 
Development and operation of the necessary information systems; Member States' requests for support. 13 (9) Deputies national factual monitoring of the functioning of the Community rules on port State control, which may include visits to the Member States; one representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four non-voting representatives of the economic sectors concerned. 
Start of the activity of maritime support services. 
Assisting the Commission and the Member States in identifying and tracking ships that have carried out illegal discharges; 3. External control of the Court of Auditors. 
Review the EU-recognised classification societies and submit relevant reports to the Commission; 4. Assistance to the Commission in the collection and execution of the tasks related to the Directive on ship delivery; N forwards information on the introduction to the Commission of the directive on port reception facilities for vessels entering the European Hfens. Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Parliament on a recommendation from the Council. 
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 311/61 Origin of revenue Collected revenue Assignment of expenditure Community contribution 48 249 37 387 Title I Personnel (NGM) 15 320 3 180 11 999 3 149 11 805 1 881 194 1 267 3 321 31 664 245 419 606 523 83 Other revenue 157 VE 29749 29 749 48 249 48 249 48 249 28132 0 43 280 0 0 19 295 0 32 982 141 1617 10 454 4 969 13 806 0 0 0 Total 48 249 37 544 CA total TO 1 603 1 603 1 270 768 502 Revenue Expenditure of the final budget for the financial year Revenues entered in the final budget of the financial year Title II Objective expenditure (NGM) Title III Operational expenditure (GM) NGM: Non-differentiated appropriations (the commitments correspond to payments). 
ZE: Payment appropriations under separate appropriations. 
The appropriations allocated for the financial year under Title III concern exclusively reused revenue (EUR 101 000) and assigned revenue (Phare Đ 40 403). 
The revenue collected and the payments are cancelled according to the cash-based accounting method. 
C 311/62 DE Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 of the European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) on the economic result for the financial years 2007 and 2006 5.12.2008 Operational gains Community contributions Other Income operating expenses Personnel expenses Other administrative expenses Operating expenses Operating expenses Total (a) 2007 33 801 1 111 34 912 10 791 356 3 252 14 842 29 242 5 669 (EUR 1 000) 2006 24 716 678 25 394 9 616 236 3 548 14 151 27 551 Đ 2 157 Total (b) Economic result of the year (c = a Đ b) Source: Information from the Agency. 
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
This financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the accrual accounting method. Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) December 2007 and 31 December 2007 December 2006 (EUR 1 000) 2006 55 523 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 191 12 111 12 301 5 028 7 185 Đ 2 157 5 028 Investment assets Intangible assets Current assets Short-term pre-financing Short-term receivables Cash and cash equivalents Short-term liabilities rectifications for risks and liabilities Clearance liabilities Reserves Cumulated bills/losses Economic result for the year Total liabilities Total liabilities net capital 2007 257 555 10 003 254 15 166 26 234 232 15 305 15 537 10 697 5 028 5 669 10 697 Source: Information from the Agency. 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/63 ANTWORTEN OF THE AGENTURY 7. The Agency welcomes the observations of the Court of Auditors. 
The Agency continues its efforts to improve planning and monitoring. 
Particular attention is paid to the forecasting and timing of payments. 
The appropriations required in 2007 are within the 10 % threshold of the financial regulation. 
On 20 March 2007, on a proposal from the Commission, the Management Board decided to use the appropriations for the use of pollution as assigned revenue, but decided not to treat these appropriations as such on 21.11.2007. 
8. The measures taken to avoid subsequent middle formations will be stalled. 
The key factors are training and communication. 
9. In response to the Court's observations, measures were taken to ensure that the selection criteria and the necessary minimum score are set at an earlier stage of the selection procedure. 
In the light of the forthcoming adoption of the new implementing rules on the recruitment of temporary staff, the Agency will take into account the Court's further observations on the approach to recruitment procedures. 
Orricial J ournal c 393 Volume 40 of the European Communities 29 December197 Notice No 97/C 393/01 97/C 393/02 97/C 393/03 97/C 393/04 97/C 393/05 97/C 393/06 97/C 393/07 97/C 393/08 # Information and Notices Contents Page I Information Court of Auditors Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop - Salonika), accompanied by the replies of the Centre 1 Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), accompanied by the replies of the Foundation 10 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA, London) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies 18 Report on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (OHIM, Alicante) (Financial year 1996), together with the Office's replies. 
23 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies 29 Report on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies 35 Report on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies 41 EN 2 (Continued overleaf) Report on the financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies 47 
Notice No 97/C 393/09 97/C 393/10 Contents (continued) Report on the financial statements of the Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO-Angers) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the office's replies 52 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Financial 1996), together with the Agency's replies. . . . 
58 Notice to readers (see page 3 of the cover) EN 
29. 12. COURT OF AUDITORS REPORT on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop - Salonika), accompanied by the replies of the Centre (97/C 393/01) CONTENTS THE FINANCIAL STATEM ENTS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background of revenue of the audit financial data Observation OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 3 21 3 22-23 3 24-26 4 27-29 
C 393/2 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is addressed to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 12 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (a) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (2). 
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ended 31 December 1996. 
In accordance with Article 18 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board. 
This responsibility includes the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for in Articles 65, 67 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3). 
The Court of Auditors is required within the meaning of Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community to examine these financial statements. 
3. The Court undertook its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context, and, accordingly, carried out such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances. 
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996'are reliable and the underlying transactions are, as a whole, legal and regular. 
Audit OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was established by the Council Regulation EEC No 337/75 {) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of promoting vocational training at Community level. 
Cedefop commenced operations in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Salonika in 1995. 
6. The same Regulation defines its role as that of assisting 'the Commission in encouraging, at Community level, the promotion and development of vocational and in-service training', of contributing 'to the implementation of a common vocational training policy' and particularly encouraging 'the exchange of information and the comparison of expertise'. 
ITS main tasks in the field of vocational training are 'to compile documentation, to contribute to the development and coordination of research, to disseminate useful documentation and information, to encourage and support initiatives likely to facilitate a coordinated approach (specifically in respect of the approximation of standards and the mutual recognition of certificates) and to provide a forum for all those concerned'. 
Scope of the audit 7. The Court carried out a financial audit of the 1996 accounts and has reviewed the Centre's decisions concerning its temporary and permanent premises and staff situation. 
Financial data 8. Tables 1 and 2 summarise the financial statements of the Centre. 
Available funds for the financial year 1996 amounted to ECU 14,8 million. 
Commitments entered into gave rise to ECU 11.4 million in payments and ECU 2.1 million in carry-overs to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 1,3 million having been cancelled. 
Appropriations carried over from the previous financial year gave rise to ECU 4.2 million in payments and ECU 0.6 million in cancellations. 
Table 3 of this report gives an analysis of the utilisation of the funds for 1996 as well as of those carried over from 1995. 
Observations concerning budgetary implementation Separation of duties 9. The Centre has put in place adequate procedures for the separation of duties of authorising officer, accounting officer and Imprest Holder (5). 
Imprest account 10. A high proportion (in 1996 74 %, including salaries) of payments continue to be made prior to approval by the Financial" Controller. 
Last year (5) the Court recommended that the use of the.imprest account be limited to ongoing or small expenses, where' the risk of irregularities is comparatively low. 
A Management Board decision defining which kind of expenses may be paid thrnnph the imnrest account has been established and came into force on 1 January 1997. 
Transfers of appropriations 11. The value of transfers of funds between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 891 600 (6 % of the initial budget), down from ECU 922 000 in 1995. 
29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/3 12. Following consultations with and the approval of the different services in the Commission (DG IX, DG XIX and DG XX), the Centre transferred ECU 30 000 from budget line 117 6 'Other services and work sent out for translation and typing' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 0 'Auxiliaries', and ECU 40 000 from budget line 1 1 0 0 'Basic salaries' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 2 'Local agents'. 
These new budget lines were created by the Centre. 
The Court acknowledges the reasons for making these transfers, but notes that they are contrary to paragraph 4 (a) of Article 21 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 which states: 'appropriations may be transferred only to budget headings for which the statement of expenditure has authorised appropriations or carried a token entry'. 
The same budget lines are also included in the 1997 budget with approval of the Budgetary Authority. 
Carry-overs and cancellations of appropriations 13. The volume of funds carried over has decreased in 1996. 
Almost 77 % of final appropriations for 1996 were paid out in 1996 as compared with 61 % in 1995. 
The percentage of commitments made and carried over to 1997'was 14 % (28 % in 1995). 
The percentage of cancellations was 9 % compared with 10 % in 1995. 
Table 4 shows the carry-overs from the 1996 initial budget by title and their subsequent use. 
Observations concerning the revenue and expenditure account and the balance sheet Revenue 14. The EU subsidy for the Centre for 1996 was ECU 14 625 000. 
The Centre actually requested and received ECU 14 410 000. 
15. In 1996, for the first time Norway and Iceland paid the Centre ECU 9 6 1 3 5 as a contribution for their participation in the work programme. 
Expenditure 16. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 stipulates that contracts may be made by direct agreement where the contract involves an amount not exceeding the limit of ECU 12 000. 
In the case of at least 17 study contracts and five fixed asset purchases, contracts over that limit were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of the Regulation, but all payments were approved by the Financial Controller. 
17. The result of a study of delays in the submission of work by contractors for 1996 showed that 55 % of the contractors did not respect the contractual deadline. 
None of the minutes of management meetings contained any evidence of a review of the performance of contractors in meeting contractual deadlines. 
Balance sheet 18. The Centre made an up-to-date inventory list as foreseen in Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (s). 
Fixed assets of ECU 1 443 431 recorded in the 1996 balance sheet represent the historic cost of materials and furnishings. 
19· At the year end, cash balances held by. the Centre were ECU 4.1 million, down from ECU 5,9 million in 1995. 
The Centre is again taking responsibility for managing large cash balances. 
The Court recommends the Centre make its quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of its actual cash needs. 
20. The balance sheet includes an amount of ECU 483 308 relating to 'VAT to recover', of which ECU 251 434 relates to the year 1995 but not yet recovered due to the move to Salonika. 
The Court asks the Centre to do the necessary to recover this amount as soon as possible. 
With regard to the 'VAT to recover for 1996', the Centre is recommended to explain to the responsible tax authorities every detail related to this procedure to avoid funds being cancelled or excessive delays in reimbursement. 
Audit of the Centre's premises' and staff situation Temporary premises 21. As the Court observed last year (8), the Centre had to invest ECU 120 000 to fit out the premises to make the temporary building functional and 'ready for use'. 
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the Centre 'explained that these costs were incurred to improve the conditions for efficient functioning of the Centre', but was unable to explain who was liable to bear these costs. 
Permanent premises 22. The Centre and the Greek State signed on 22 June 1995, a basic agreement regarding the construction of the permanent building. 
According to this agreement, the Centre will pay to the Greek State ECU 6 879 750 in four equal instalments of ECU 1 719 937. 
The first two were paid on 1 September 1995 and 1 September 1996 
This third instalment has to be approved by the Budgetary Authority and the last instalment will be paid when the building is handed over. 
23. If approval is given by the Budgetary Authority before 1 September 1997, the Centre will have paid to the Greek State ECU 5 159 811 for the construction of the permanent building. 
The construction of the building was planned to begin on 30 March 1997. 
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the tendering procedure, which is managed by the Greek authorities, was not yet finalised nor were any contracts signed. 
As a consequence, no financial data or budget related to this investment was available for audit. 
Staff 24. In 1996, the Staff Complement Table Authorised 81 posts (permanent and temporary positions), of which: 25 A, 11 LA, 15 B, 27 C and 3 D. At the time of the audit (May 1997), 78 persons were actually working in. 
Salonika, of which: 60 officials and temporary officials (25 A/LA, 10 B, 23 C and 2 D), 7 national experts, 5 local agents, 3 auxiliaries, 2 interims and 1 'stagiaire'. 
25. Another three persons are working at Cedefop's office in Brussels, one person is seconded to Eurostat for a cooperative project, three persons we're still in Berlin, This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors and 13 November 1997. four staff members are on special leave (CCP) and one person has been ill for many months. 
Many new members of staff have been recruited during 1996. 
26. The Court has been informed of an investigation by the Greek tax authorities concerning, among others, tax and social security payments for local staff put at the disposal of Cedefop by a company in Salonika. 
Conclusion 27. In the case of at least 17 study contracts and five fixed-asset purchases, contracts over the limit of ECU 12000 were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (see paragraph 16). 
28. The Centre once again holds large cash balances. 
This situation should be avoided by making quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of actual cash needs (see paragraph 19). 
29. The Centre is recommended to make sure that the work concerning the permanent premises is progressing in conformity with the contract (see paragraph 23). in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President (!) 
OJL39,13.2.1975,p. 1. 
(2) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993, p. 11. 
(3) OJ L 164, 24. 6. 1976, p. 1. 
(4) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993, p. 15. 
(5) Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1995 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop - Salonika). 
29. 12. 97 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/5 Fixed assets 1. Furniture Current assets Fixed capital 1. Stocks 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Advances 4. VAT to recover 5. Expenditure to be charged Cash accounts 1. Bank account 2. Imprest account Sums t o b e recovered Assets 1996 1 4 4 4 7 66 8 483 294 3 151.882 29 ¦ 1995 941 7 10 9 251 1962 5 360 504 16 Liabilities 1. Own capital 2. Balance for the financial year Current liabilities 1. Salary deductions 2. Other liabilities Sums to be reused Appropriations carried over Payments in progress Sums to be collected 1996 1450 1623 82 654 133 2 151 242 29 6 364 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 948.2 013 482 558 326 4 668 49-16 9 060 6 364 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop. 
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 9 060 
Total expenditure (b) 
29. 12. Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/7 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure not provided for Total Definitive 7 839 3 008 3 974 14 821 Payments 6 225 (79.42) 2 667. 
(88.65) 2 492 (62.71) 11384 (76.81) Carry-overs 510 (6.5) 258 (8,59) 1 383 (34.8) 2 151 (14.52) Cancelled 1 104 (14.08) 83 (2.76) 99 (2.49) 1286 (8.67) Available 1287 864 2 664 10 4 825(*) 1213 (94, 32) 757 (87,52) 2 229 (83.67) 10 (100,00) 4 209 (87.23) Cancelled 74 (5.68) 107 (12.38) 435 (16.33) 0 (0.00) 616 (12.77) TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 - UTILISATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRI ATI ONS The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available appropriations. (*) ECU 4 668 287 (31. 12. 1996) + ECU 156 500 (non-automatic carry-overs) Source: Prepared'by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop. 
1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 -CARRY-OVERS FROM THE 1996 INITIAL BUDGET Staff Administrative expenditure Operational expenditure Carry-over from 1996 509 8 8 3 258 0 4 3 1 383 122 Carry-over as percentage of initial budget 6.5 8,59 34.8 14,52 Carry-overs paid out 1. 1. to 31. 3. 97 254 4 0 5 168 2 5 4 574 599 997 258 (in ECU) Percentage of 1996 carry-over used by 31. 3. 97 49,89 65,04 41,54 46,36 expenditure Total Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop. 
2 151 048 (in ECU 1000) 
C 393/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING The nature of the observations of the Court of Auditors makes it possible for the Management Board of the Centre to react in a direct manner. 
The Board will follow the structure of the Court's observations and conclusions. 
The numbering of the annotated paragraphs corresponds to that used in the Court's report. 
12. The Centre thanks to the Court for the understanding shown for the indicated transfers, which were necessary for smooth functioning in the Greek context and points out the exceptional nature of these operations which will not recur under normal circumstances. 
16. Concerning the procedure to call for tenders the following points should be taken into account: (a) Some ongoing contracts are based on earlier calls for interest and for tender. 
In the case of the documentary network, for which contracts are mostly above ECU 12 000, these were signed in most cases with the same specialised institutions as in.previous years. 
A high degree of continuity is needed in this work and a yearly call for tenders with the possibility of frequent changes in contractors would be very disruptive and, due to the need for training and a period of introduction, inefficient. 
Nevertheless the performance of the contracts is carefully evaluated and a call for tenders (on the basis of the call for interest recently made by the Centre) will be launched in cases where it is considered that this performance is not satisfactory. (B) Contracts for preparing new monographs describing the vocational education and training systems in the Member States (or for updating existing ones) are subject to the usual rules, i.e. a restricted invitation to tender is organised. 
In the case of the monographs, this list is drawn up following consultation with members of the Management Board. 
An exception to this rule was made during 1995 and 1996 in relation to monographs concerning the new Member States and the EEA countries, when it was thought more appropriate to take the decision directly following consultation with members of the Management Board. 
As planned, the Centre launched a general call for an expression of interest for participation in networks and the performance of study contracts. 
This was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities (C 214 of 16 July 1997) and the results of this call are now processed. 
17. Delays in completing transactions in relation to contracts in many cases derive from defective administrative procedures, especially the failure of contractors to forward in time the necessary invoices for payment. 
Delays were also incurred sometimes in signing contracts, allowing work on them to begin only some months after the date initially planned which had knock-on effects. 
In other cases delays were due to the need for intensive and time-consuming discussion between the contractor and Cedefop on the basis of the contractor's. draft report. 
In cases in which the contracting institution may be co-funding the activity itself, or obtaining some funding from another source, Cedefop cannot always dictate the timetable. 
This is especially so, when the price that Cedefop is paying is lower than the market might dictate for the work involved. 
Nevertheless, Cedefop will try to avoid delays. 
In the case of unreasonable delays the Centre indicates to the contractors that these imply serious disadvantages for them, as far as the prospects for future cooperation are concerned. 
The new list of interested persons/institutions, which will be the result of the recent call for expression of interest, should enlarge the options available to the Centre for the future award of contracts and therefore make it easier to insist that contractors and their institutions comply strictly with the rules and timetable laid down. 
A business-like approach will be maintained. 
19. The Management Board notes the improvements in 1996 and considers that further progress is possible. 
It wants to intensify its efforts to that end. 
The Centre has improved its procedure by adding to every quarterly drawing from the Commission subsidy a detailed statement with respect to the current supply of means of payment and the total payments expected during the subsequent four months. 
The difference between these shows the balance of the real demand and, as a result, a permanent excessive cash balance will be avoided. 
20. The Centre immediately initiated action after the audit of the Court of Auditors and is pressing for reimbursement. 
The corresponding records for reclaiming from the German financial authorities the value-added tax (VAT) paid in 1995 and 1996 by the Centre have been submitted. 
The Centre has made contact with the responsible tax authorities in Greece and has been informed in detail on the procedure and appropriate preparation of the records for reclaiming value-added tax 
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/9 (VAT) paid in previous years. 
In the mean time, the records-concerning the financial years 1995 and 1996 have been prepared and forwarded to the authorities. 
21. The Centre draws to mind that - the rapid refurbished temporary premises are not an optimal· solution (e.g. the available surface area is only ±one third the size of the future new building), - new needs arose after Cedefop's relocation (particularly, investment in the infrastructure for electronic equipment), - neither the initial agreement nor the Greek law is clear on who should bear such costs. 
Legal advice confirmed the uncertainty. 
The Centre had to make modifications to run operations efficiently. 
The Centre Recognises that it would have been better to make arrangements beforehand on any additional investment. 
The owner has taken note of these additional investments made by Cedefop and has shown a generous attitude in new issues (e.g. extra meeting facilities). 
The Centre will try to receive compensation in the settlements at the end of the present rental contract. 
23. The Centre agrees that the preparatory time was very long, but is confident that matters will now proceed rapidly. 
The calendar for the coming period delivered by the Greek authorities is as follows: Calendar with main events and dates for Cedefop's new building Selection of the winner of the call for tender in the second round of tenders Implementation of the infrastructural work Foundation stone laid by Mr Pangalos, Foreign Affairs Minister Signing of the contract Estimated total time for completing the work Expected completion of the project The Centre expects that the Budgetary Authority will lift the reserve in the 1997 budget and that the Centre will be able to comply with its contractual obligations vis-ŕ-vis the Greek Government. 
Hopefully, the progress will be substantial enough to pay the third instalment before the end of 1997. 
This would also be of importance because in the budget proposal of 1998 there is no request for another instalment. 
24-25. There are indeed many new staff members recruited and several persons working in the Centre on different contracts on top of the table of posts. 
The social measures related to the transfer came to an end (May 1997) and the Management Board will assess the staff situation at the end of 1997. 
30 July 1997 In progress 6 September 1997 30 October 1997 460 calendar days 10 May 1999 at the latest 26. The expectations are that the results of this investigation will not have consequences for the Centre. 
27. As explained, a new extensive call for interest has been undertaken with success. 
28. This situation has been improving over the last years and this trend hopefully willcontinue in 1997. 
29. The Centre did its utmost, and will continue to do so, to ensure that it will have a high-quality new building and to obtain good value for good money. 
The cost of the new building could be less than the initial estimates. 
The prospects are positive (see paragraph 23). 
C 393/10 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 12 REPORT on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), accompanied by the replies of the Foundation (97/C 393/02) CONTENTS The financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year 1996 AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background Scope of the audit Financial data Following up of previous observations Separation of duties Imprest account Transfers of funds between titles Mission expenses Study Contracts Budgetary Implementation and the revenue and expenditure account Transfer of Car appropriationsry-overs and cancellations 11 11 Revenue Management of health and safety Coordination with Bilbao 1 
29. 12. Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/11 THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996. This report is addressed to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (l) as amended by Article 1 (4) of Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 (2). 
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ended 31 December 1996. 
In accordance with Article 1 (16) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76(4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Administrative Board. 
This responsibility includes the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for in Article 1 (52), (54) and (55) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (4). 
3. The Court undertook its audit in accordance with generally accepted international auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context and, accordingly, carried out such tests of the accounting records and such other procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances. 
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996 are reliable and the underlying transactions are, taken as a whole, legal and regular. 
Audit OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Foundation for the Improvement in Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (5) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of contributing 'to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions through action designed to increase and disseminate knowledge likely to assist this development'. 
The Dublin Foundation commenced operations in 1976. 
Scope of the audit 6. The Court of Auditors has examined the accounts and financial management of the Dublin Foundation for the financial year 1996 in accordance with the provisions of the relevant regulations(6). 
A review of the cooperation with the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao and Directorate-General V of the Commission in the area of health and safety was carried out. 
Financial data 7. Tables 1 and 2 summarise the financial statements of the Foundation. 
Available funds for the financial year 1996 amounted to ECU 13,8 million. 
Commitments entered into gave rise to ECU 10,5 million in payments and ECU 3,1 million in carry-overs to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 0.2 million having been cancelled. 
Appropriations carried over from the previous year gave rise to ECU 2,9 million in payments and ECU 0.1 million in cancellations. 
Table 3 attached to this report gives an analysis by title of the utilisation of the funds for the year and for those carried over from 1995. 
Follow up of previous observations Separation of duties 8. There is still an inadequate separation of duties between the authorising officer and the accounting officer (7), contravening Article 1 (15) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76. Imprest account 9. Last year the Court recommended that the use of the Imprest account be limited to ongoing or small expenses, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low. 
At the time of the audit in April 1997 a written definition of ongoing and small expenses still had not been established by the Foundation in consultation, with the Financial Controller. 
Transfers of appropriations between titles 10. The Court welcomes the fact that no transfers of funds between titles were made during 1996. 
The Court has criticised such transfers in previous years (8). 
Mission Expenses 11. Some improvements have been made to strengthen the controls and monitoring of the results of missions. 
The Foundation should continue its efforts so as to ensure that: 
C 393/12 ? Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 - For all missions a report stating the times of meetings, persons met and the results of the meeting is prepared. 
The report should be reviewed by a senior member of staff and filed centrally, - wherever possible, more than one meeting should be arranged during a mission to Brussels in order to avoid the same staff member going to Brussels on successive weeks, - other means of communication, including tele-conferencing, should be seriously considered, especially when communicating with persons in Brussels well already known. 
Study contracts 12. The audit team of the Court followed up last year's observation regarding delays in the submission of work by contractors. 
The minutes of the programme management meetings did not contain any evidence of a review of report deadlines. 
A summary of the information supplied by the Foundation during the audit is shown in Table 4 and demonstrates the need for a formalisation of followup procedures. 
Management of health and safety Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao commenced its activities in September 1996. 
'Health and safety' was in the Foundation's programme of work for 1996, but was replaced in the programme of work for 1997 with 'Health and wellbeing'. 
There is an urgent need for a clear and detailed M emorandum of Understanding (currently being negotiated) to be agreed on by both satellite agencies. 
This should maximise cooperation and exclude any overlap in activities. 
17. Formal contacts already exist at administrative level, notably through both directors attending the other's Administrative Board meetings as an observer. 
Links Need to be extended to the research manager level in order to ensure full coordination. 
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. Directorate F of DG V, 'Public Health and Safety at Work', makes use of some of the Foundation's research within this specialised field. 
While maintaining the present independence of the Foundation's Administrative Board, there is a need to make more effort to ensure that its output is as useful as possible to DG V/F in terms of content and timing. 
DG V/F is unable to attend all meetings concerning specific study contracts. 
It would therefore be useful to hold periodic meetings at which the whole range of studies which may concern DG V/F can be discussed. 
Conclusion 19. There is an inadequate separation of duties between accounting officer and authorising officer (see paragraph 8). 
20. The use of the Imprest account should be regularised (see paragraph 9). 
21. Controls over mission expenditure and the monitoring of study contracts should be tightened (see paragraphs 11 and 12). 
22. Cooperation and communication with the Bilbao Agency and DG V/F in the fields of 'Health and safety at work' and 'Health and wellbeing' should be strengthened (see paragraphs 16 to 18). 
Budget implementation and the expenditure account Transfer of appropriations revenue and 13. The value of transfers of appropriations between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 1 366 000 (9.9 % of appropriations entered into the budget), down from ECU 1 494 000 (11?·%) in 1995. 
Carry-overs and cancellations of appropriations 14. Table 3 shows that the payment rate is 76 % for the account as a whole, but only 55 % for Title 3 Operating expenditure'. 
This is in line with previous years and is due to the fact that studies are usually paid in three instalments over the period foreseen in their contracts. 
Revenue 15. The EU subsidy for the Foundation for 1996 was ECU 13.4 million. 
The actual amount requested and received was ECU 12 895 632. 
The funds were requested as required by the Council Regulations and in line with a cash flow forecast, previously as recommended by the Court. 
29. 12. 97 '1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities' C 393/13 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 and 13 November 1997. 
(2) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 93, p. 13. 
(4) OJ L 164, 24. 6. 76, p. 16. 
(5) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 published on 30 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30. 5. 1975). 
(6) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30. 5. 1975) on the creation of the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993). 
Council Regulation (EEC) N o 1417/76 of l'June 1976 (OJ L 164, 24. 6. 1976) on the financial provisions applying to the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) N o 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23. 7. 1993). 
(7) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 8. 
(8) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 10 and Dublin Foundation annual report 1994, paragraph 3.2. 
For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President 
C 393/14 1 EN I - Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assets 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Mission advances 4. Miscellaneous advances 5. Bank charges Cash accounts Bank account - ECU - Main (IR Ł) - Imprest (IR Ł) 1996 7106 1 5 5 1 38 337 3 9 2 440 794 204 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1' 1520 190 245 Liabilities 1996 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 8 479-2 040-18 306 224 3 012 751 10 750 Fixed assets 1. Buildings 2. Furniture Current assets 1. Stocks Fixed capital 10 484 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation. 
10 484 - ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 10 750 1. Own capital 8 695 2. Balance for the financial year - 2 8 8 3. Balance from the previous year - 2 040 Current liabilities Salary deductions 24 Revenue to be collected 336 Sums to be reused ¦ 209 Appropriations carried over 3 098 Payments in progress 450 
C 393/16 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 - UTILICATION OF AVAILABLE Appropriations Definitive 5 950 1 170 6 680 13 800 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation. 
Cancelled '50 (0.8) 16 (1.4) 130 (1.9) 196 (1,4) Available 28 177 2 807 3 012 Total The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available appropriations. 
Year 1995 1996 Total contracts (') 110 62 Deadlines not respected (2) 57 42 Percentage (2)/(') 52 68 Payments 5 877 (98.8) 976 (83.4) 3 653 (54.7) Carry-overs 23 27 (96.4) 174 (98.3) 2 669 (95.1) 2 870 (95.3) Caitcelled 1 (3.6) 3 (1, 138 (4.9) 142 (4.7) 10 506 (76.1) 1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments - (0.4) 178 ' (15.2) 2 897 (43.4) Total 172 99 58 (1) For 1996 only those contracts for which the contractual deadline was prior to 31 January 1997 have been included. 
(2) Only cases where reports were shown as received over one month after the deadline have j)een included. 
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation. 
3 098 (22,5) TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 - RESPECT OF STUDY CONTRACT DEADLINES ' (in ECU 1 000) 
29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/17 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS Separation of duties 8. The Foundation would ask the Court to note that the two functions of authorising and accounting officers are carried out separately by different individuals: a residual problem of separation of duties is limited to data input to the accounting system. 
This problem will be resolved when the Foundation obtains delivery of a new system. 
The Foundation is in contact with the Commission services with regard to the feasibility of the application of the Commission's Sincom 2 system to the Foundation's accounting requirements. ~ - Imprest account 9. During 1996 the Foundation's use of the Imprest account was, in practice, in accordance with the recommendation of the Court, limited to ongoing or small expenses. 
The Foundation, in June 1997 in consultation with the Financial Controller, established a written definition with regard to these expenses. 
Mission expenses 11. In 1996, the Foundation further developed existing procedures with regard to mission reports. 
This process will continue and will incorporate the suggestions of the Court. 
The Foundation continually seeks to accommodate the optimal number of meetings during a particular mission. 
The Court's comments regarding missions to Brussels are, however, noted. 
Following the successful completion of a pilot scheme during 1996 the Foundation has now installed a tele-conferencing facility. 
It is intended to review the utilisation of this facility at the end of a trial period at which time further decisions will be taken, based on a cost analysis, regarding the value of acquiring more extensive and sophisticated video-conferencing equipment. 
Study contracts 12. Although the minutes of the programme management meetings have not recorded the situation on specific contract deadlines, such discussions on each contract take place at every meeting and appropriate action is taken. 
With regard to such recording the Foundation is now establishing an improved system for formalisation of follow-up procedures in order to present a more realistic picture. of the situation. 
Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The memorandum of understanding currently under consideration is considered as a priority item by the Foundation. 
The establishment of links at research manager level has therefore commenced. 
This will be intensified in line with any increase in activities undertaken by the Bilbao Agency. 
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. The Foundation.is very cognisant of the need for its output to be relevant to the work of DG V. The Commission is represented on the Foundation's Administrative Board by the Deputy Director-General of DG V. Various forms of working relations have been established with the Directorates of DG V, including mutual participation in working groups as appropriate. 
Specifically through the office of the Director of DG V/F the Foundation has regular contacts with officials in the various units within DG V/F. Presentation of aspects of the Foundation's work to DG V officials is provided for within the Foundation's operational activities. 
The Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work in Luxembourg is also kept informed of the Foundation's programme and its results. 
More generally there is a flow of relevant documentation from the Foundation to DG V •in relation to the results of the work programmes. 
The Court's acknowledgement that DG V/F is often unable to attend meetings related to specific study contracts is noted. 
The Foundation is fully open to alternative proposals from DG V/F with regard to utilisation of the Foundation's output. 
C 393/18 I EN [Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEÄ, London) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/03) 1.1. 
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, pursuant to Article 57 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (*). 
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial year 1996. 
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accordance with Article 57 (7) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 (l). 
His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in accordance with thé internal financial provisions provided for in Article 57 (11) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts. 
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are appropriate to the community context. 
It examined the account books and records and carried out such additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary. 
The financial statements concerning the financial year 1996 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions as a whole are guaranteed. 
Main OBSERVATIONS concerning the IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE EVALUATION OF MEDICINAL· PRODUCTS (EMEA, LONDON) for the FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budgetary accounts 1.5. 
The Agency's budgetary accounts do not enable the principle of the inviolability of the accounts to be guaranteed, as a posteriori modifications are possible and undetectable. 
Furthermore, the accounts do not make it possible to detect cases of spending in excess of available funds. 
The current system does not allow the Authorising Officer to input accounting data (proposals for commitments and payment orders) to the computer. 
These data are recorded by the accounting officer in the accounts for the record (temporary freezing) before being approved by the Financial Controller. 
This practice does not provide accurate information on the accounts in real time. 
As the Sincom 2 system, which is supposed to replace the present accounting system, is not yet operational, an alternative solution should preferably be sought without delay. 
General accounts - analytical 1.7. 
The general accounts software that is currently used is insufficient for the Agency's needs and is separate from the budgetary accounts system. 
Furthermore, the Agency has no system of analytical accounts, which is however indispensable if one wishes to establish whether the scale of fees laid down by the Council (3) adequately covers the costs of evaluation. 
Use of appropriations. 
1.8. The funds carried forward from 1995 to 1996 totalled ECU 5,9 million. 
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million (29 %) was cancelled. 
ECU 0.9 million of 1995 appropriations made available for reuse but not used in 1996 were also cancelled. 1.9. 
Only 79.6 % of current appropriations (ECU 22,6 million before the SAB and ECU 17.9 million after a reduction following the adoption of an amending budget) were implemented and 20.7 % were cancelled (ECU 4,7 million). 
The main reason for this was the impossibility of recruiting staff in good time (only 65 % of the posts for which provision had been made); a second reason was the reduction in licence applications and in the corresponding studies. 
1.10. The funds carried forward from 1996 to 1997 totalled ECU 4.8 million. 
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million and ECU 2,8 million concerned Titles II (administrative expenditure) and III (operational expenditure). 
In the case of Title II, ECU 1.1 million concerned purchases of equipment based on new technology. 
In the case of Title III, ECU 1,3 million concerned fees to be paid to the inspectors during examinations (started in 1996 and finished in 1997) and ECU 0.8 million was for orphan drugs. 
29". 
12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/19 Imprest account 1.11. 
Contrary to accounting principles, a loss of ECU 0.02 million in 1994 was listed under expenditure to be settled in 1995 and 1996. Revenue; subsidies; own resources 1.12. 
The total révenue actually collected, i.e. ECU 18,4 million, represents 81 % of the amount for which the budget initially provided. 
The fees collected amounted to ECU 7 million. 
Only 73 % of the amount initially provided for could be collected and checked. 
The balance sheet shows ECU 0,9 million of fees due that have not yet been validated and established in accordance with Article 5 (3) of the Agency's Financial Regulation. 1.14. 
In 1997, the Agency adopted a new computer system for revenue. 
This system will be examined during the next court audit. 
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. 
0 OJ L 214, 24". 
8. 1993, p. 18. 
(2) Article 57 (9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 26 March 1997, on which date they were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors. 
These accounts were received by the Court on 31 March 1997. 
The short forně of these financial statements is presented in the tables annexed to this report. 
(3) OJ L 35, 15. 2. 1995. 
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President C 393/20 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assets Equipment and furniture 1996 1 893 1 893 0 147 728 113 1995 1394 1394 0 21 199 937 1 157 8 249 8 249 10 800 Liabilities Capital (l) Balance for the year ^ Current liabilities 1996 1 893 4 583 6 476 1620 3 152 328 8 190 895 314 728 7 235 13 711 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 364 1226 41 85 390 0 199 7 855 10 800 Fixed assets fixed capital Current assets Commission subsidy receivable Sundry accounts receivable VAT to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Cash accounts Banks - current accounts Term deposits Total assets Non-automatic carry-overs of appropriations Automatic carry-overs of appropriations Appropriations for reuse Salary deductions Sundry accounts payable Deferred fees Exchange profit riot realised VAT refund Subtotal Total liabilities (') This amount corresponds to the fixed assets. 
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data. 
Annex TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 Subtotal Subtotal 988 Subtotal 756 10 074 10 830 13 711 Subtotal 
29. 12. 97 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/21 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND Expenditure ACCOUNT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Subsidy received from the Commission Fees Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff - Budget Title I Payments Appropriations carried over Total revenue 1996 11 000 7 004 372 18 376 6 593 263 2 858 1698 3 650 2 811 138 18 011 365 1 551 2 667 4 583 (in ECU 1 1995 10150 3 210 299 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 0 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551 Buildings, equipment and various administrative expenses - Budget Title II Payments Appropriations carried over Operating expenditure. 
Budget Title III Payments Appropriations carried over Miscellaneous expenditure not included in budget Payments to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Exchange losses Outturn for the financial year Balance carried over from previous year Appropriations carried over from previous year, cancelled Total expenditure Balance to be carried over Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data. 
In the absence of a commercial computerised system which meets the requirements of the Financial Regulation and until the new SI2 system, developed by the Commission, which the Agencies are in the process of adapting to their needs, is available, the Agency is managing its budget accounts using Excel software. 
This software ensures that the information required for the sound management of the budget is always available and it provides the Agency's management with information which is relevant and up-to-date. 
The software verifies budget appropriations, commitments, orders, frozen appropriations and payments. 
The existing system indicates cases spending in excess of available appropriations. 
The supporting document for each entry in the budget system is the document signed by the authorising officer. 
It is approved by the Financial Controller and is processed by the accounts department. 
It is true that the Agency's system is not yet completely computerised and, because it does not retain in its memory changes to entries, it does, in principle, allow changes to be made without any indication thereof appearing in the general accounts. 
However, it should be noted that all commitments, cancellations, payment orders, etc. are prepared and classified in accordance with the rules, the relevant supporting documents being placed in an annex. 
In the new system it will not be possible to make ex post facto changes without there being any indication thereof. 
Like most of the Agencies, the EMEA expects that the work on the SI2 project will be completed in 1997 and that the system will be made available. 
The new system will allow the general accounts to be better integrated with the budget accounts. 
Together with the other Agencies, the EMEA issued an invitation to tender two years ago for compatible software; the result was disappointing. 
The EMEA anticipates that the SI2 system, adapted to the needs of the Agency, will be available by the end of 1997. 
1.7. On 5 February 1997 the Management Board adopted a report on the cost of operational activities, which was forwarded to the Commission. 
The Agency is busy structuring its accounts system so as to include analytical accounts. 
In addition, a pilot programme for the electronic recording of activities has been started. 1.8. 
The sum of ECU 0,9 million in 1995 appropriations made available for reuse but not used in 1996 relates notably to Article 204 (fitting-out of premises). 
As these funds could not be transferred and as no significant fitting-out work was carried out in 1996, the sum in question was cancelled. 
1.11. Article 5 of the Financial Regulation stipulates that expenditure for which authorisation reaches the Financial Controller no later than 31 December, and for which the corresponding payments are made no later than the following 15 January, will be entered in the accounts for the financial year which is coming to a close. 
Following the imprecise interpretation of these provisions in 1994 a sum of ECU 16 915,22. was imputed to the Imprest account. 
Following discussions with the Court's auditors the sum in question was settled in the 1997 accounts. 
1.13. Even if, with more experience in the field, the Agency was able to improve its estimates of the volume of dossiers to be received, taking account also of the seasonal nature of their submission, the Agency would still be no more able in the future it is present at formulate, one year in advance, exact estimates of the plans of the pharmaceutical industry and therefore of the amount which might be expected from fees. 
These uncertainties mean that the Agency is obliged to pursue a cautious policy with regard to expenditure. 
29. 12. Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/23 REPORT on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the I nternal Market (OHI M, Alicante) (Financial year 1996), together with the Office's replies (97/C 393/04) 1.1. 
This report is addressed to the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the I nternal Market pursuant to Article 137(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 C. 
The Court has examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the I nternal Market for the financial year 1996. 
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office in accordance with the requirements of Article 119 (2) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2). 
His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (3) in accordance with the internal financial rules, as provided for by Article 137 of Regulation (EC) No 40/94. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court.of Auditors to audit these accounts. 
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are applicable in the community context. 
I t carried out tests on the account books and records and such' additional procedures as it considered necessary in this context. 
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report. 
1.4. For the reasons indicated in paragraphs 1.8 to 1.12 (own revenue) the Court was unable to form an opinion as to whether the accounts underlying the revenue shown in the financial statements are reliable. 
Subject to the above reservations, the financial statements for the financial year 1996 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, assured. 
Main OBSERVATI ONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE OFFI CE FOR HARMONI ZATI ON I N THE I nternal MARKET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget accounts 1.6. 
Although 1996 is the Office's third year of activity, the accounts department of the Office still does not have proper budget accounting software. 
Monitoring the implementation of the budget is carried out with the aid of a tool which is not a real accounting system (changes may be made to entries with no subsequent record of their having been made, absence of any link to the general accounts, etc.). 1.7. 
The Office does not possess any system of analytical accounting, which is, however, indispensable for the purpose of establishing the real cost of services rendered. 
Own revenue 1.8. 
Before the entry into service, in May 1996, of the system set up to monitor the charges associated with the filing of trade marks (Euromarc), two alternative systems had been used temporarily to monitor applications for trade-mark registrations. 
The risk that is inherent in the transfer of data from these temporary systems to Euromarc is high and the Court was therefore unable to form an opinion as to whether such transfers were complete. 
The Office was not able to demonstrate that the Euromarc system was functioning according to the description it had given. 
The Court is, therefore, not in a position to state with certainty that the reliability of the system is assured. 
The new description drawn up by the Office reached the Court too late for it to be able to carry out the additional work that was necessary to remove this uncertainty. 
For reasons which are mainly due to the unwieldiness of Euromarc and the complexity of the THE regulations, long delays in dealing with applications were observed. 
Some clients complained to the Office on this account. 
Moreover, the accumulated delay prevented the entry of more than ECU 12,4 million of revenue out of a total of ECU 45,9. million in receipts. 
The difference, i.e. ECU 33,5 million, was entered under liabilities and shown on the balance sheet as 'advances from clients'. 
Of this amount, ECU 4,7 million was made up of payments that could not be linked to the related trade-mark applications. 
Bearing in mind that new payments arrive every day, these old transactions must be identified as a matter of urgency. 
C 393/24 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 ACPC 1.12. 
The Office's ACPC was not created until 1 April 1996. 
Several contracts for which the opinion of the ACPC would have been required, had. already been approved by the Office on the basis of an operating report, in some cases, by a note from the legal department, concerning the regularity of the procedure followed. 
Search notes can, under no circumstances, replace the opinion of the ACPC. 
Appropriations carried over; cancellations; transfers 1.13. 
Appropriations carried over to 1997 totalled ECU 14.5 million (total automatic carry-overs), i.e. 44.8 % of the total of ECU,32,4 million of appropriations for the financial year. 
These funds carried forward originating in the large volume of trade-mark applications which had not been processed at the end of the year. 
The total of current appropriations which lapsed was ECU 5,6 million, i.e. 17.3 % of the funds for the financial year. 
As far as the funds carried over from the financial year L995 are concerned ECU 4,65 million, i.e. 14.6 %, lapsed (ECU 0.68 million). 
Transfers of funds amounted to ECU 7,6 million. 
The. totals quoted, as well as the funds carried over to the financial year 1997 and the volume of revenue received, show the inaccuracy of the budget estimates for the financial year 1996. 
An amendment of the initial budget estimates should have been made during the financial year. 
Buildings 1.16. 
The Office continues to occupy a building belonging to the Spanish authorities and placed at its disposal free of charge. 
However, no contract exists in this respect. 
As far as the final location is concerned, the Office has opened negotiations in respect of a proposed acquisition and has entered an initial amount in the budget for supervisory work. 
1.17. It must be emphasised that the Office must ensure that the necessary appropriations are available before a legal commitment is entered into. 
(2) OJ L 11, 14. 1. 1994, p. 30. 
(3) Article 137 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 21 February 1997. 
These accounts were received by the Court on 25 February 1997. 
The short form of these financial statements is to be found in the tables annexed to this report. 
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President 29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/25 Fixed assets Fixed capital Installations and furniture Movable equipment Computer equipment Intangible assets Current assets Subtotal Capital 0 2 412 Balance for the year (4 318) Securities and guarantees received 3 Other long-term liabilities 43 Subtotal (2) (1 860) Current liabilities Automatic carry-overs of 14 517 funds Revenue for reuse 69 Institutions 478 Sundry accounts due 35 Balance of Commission subsidy (3) 6 289 VAT and charges to be recovered 429 Advances from clients 33 511 Subtotal 55 328 Total liabilities 53 468 Commission subsidy Sundry accounts receivable VAT and charges to be recovered. 
Cash accounts Bank - current accounts Imprest account Subtotal Total assets Assets "1996 383 48 1 890 91 212 6 289 42 429 6 760 44 291 5 44 296 53 468 1995 569 48 162 779 3 275 26 169 3 470 1 863 16 1 879 6128 Liabilities 1996. (in ECU 1 000) 1995 779 478 2 43 1302 4 648 9 169 4 826 6 128 ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 (') This amount corresponds to total fixed assets. 
(2) The negative total of the balance for the year and capital does not constitute a loss of capital. 
It is the result of applying the Financial Regulation in respect of revenue (only revenue which has been collected) and expenditure (payments plus funds carried over). 
(3) In the financial statements for the financial year 1995, the amount of Commission subsidy still to be paid at the end of the financial year is listed as revenue. 
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities. '' 
Source: Draw up-by the Court, on the basis of information supplied by the Office. 
C 393/26 |~ën~1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Commission subsidy Commission subsidy receivable (*) Miscellaneous revenue Own revenue Expenditure Staff - Title I Payments Appropriations carried over Buildings, equipment, etc. - Title II Payments Appropriations carried over Total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 8 291 1061 12 369 21721 8 903 402 3 279 8 272 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 6 825 3 275' 90 3 10 193 3 310 465 1669-3 869 50 314^ 9 677 516 62 (100) 478 Operating expenditure - Title III Payments 89 Appropriations carried over 5 843 Total expenditure 26 788 Outturn for the financial year (5 067) Appropriations carried over and cancelled 683 Exchange gains/losses 66 Balance for the financial year (4 318) (1) In the financial statements for the financial year 1995, the amount of Commission subsidy still to be paid at the end of the financial year is listed as revenue. 
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities. . 
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/27 REPLIES OF THE OFFICE FOR Harmonication IN THE INTERNAL MARKET 1.4. 
Own revenue The payment of the fees and charges associated with the filing and registration of a Community trade-mark is the final step in a lengthy procedure, which is laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993. 
Between the time a trade-mark application is filed and the time the corresponding charges are entered in the accounts there is usually an interval of two months, in the course of which the case is handled by at least three different types of staff. 
The whole process is computerised and each category of staff involved is authorised to access the computer system which covers the duties for which they are responsible. 
In order to be able to cover in a limited amount of time (two to three days) all the stages involved from receipt of application to entry in the accounts of the charges, it is absolutely essential that the cases selected at the outset receive priority treatment. 
This is possible providing two conditions are met: 1. That a single user is authorised, temporarily and by way of exception, to have access to all the computer systems required to complete all the stages, up to entry in the accounts, and 2. that the demonstration of the accelerated procedure takes place in a test environment in order that there may be all the flexibility of use required without the production base being contaminated. 
During the visit of the auditors in February 1997 it was not possible to carry out such a demonstration in the time available for technical reasons. 
Measures have already been put in place to ensure that a complete presentation of the revenue payment system can be made during the auditors' visit which is planned for October 1997. 
Budget accounts Like the other Agencies, the OHIM is awaiting the final version of the Sincom 2 budget accounting software. 
This software ought to be available towards the end of 1997. 
Once the OHIM receives the software, it will be brought into use over a period of a few months. 
Analytical accounts The Office will start to establish analytical accounts for certain areas of activity at the beginning of 1998, when it will have a sufficiently broad and stable production base in certain sectors to be able to establish realistic standards. 
Own revenue - change of system While changing over to the final system for monitoring applications and charges, the Office verified extremely thoroughly that the data transferred were consistent. 
Moreover, bank Reconciliations confirmed the results of the transfer. 
The Office therefore considers that the transfer was carried out correctly. 
1.9-1.10. 
System for the payment of charges See reply to paragraph 1.4. 
Delay hi the identification/entry of payments On account of the large number of applications received in 1996 (43 000 rather than the 15 000 anticipated), the Office built up a certain backlog in 1996 in the entry of application charges. 
The Office has almost caught up with this backlog. 
As regards the ECU 4,7 million made up of non-identified payments, the situation has been rectified since March 1997, as intended and explained to the Court's auditors. 
At present, the time-lag between the receipt of a cheque by the OHIM and its identification and transfer to the bank is six days. 
C 393/28 Occupational Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 1.13 ACPC The ACPC began operating as soon as the Office's Financial Regulation and the implementing rules applicable to the Financial Regulation, which govern the composition of the ACPC, entered into force. 
Before the creation of the ACPC the OHI M had no alternative but to follow the procedure which it did, namely to consult the legal department in respect of contracts exceeding a threshold of ECU 42 000, in order to ensure that the procurement procedure was in accordance with the rules applicable to the conclusion of public contracts. 
In the case of sizeable contracts, the OHI M was compelled during this transitional period to use the contracts of the other institutions and of the Commission in particular, in order to benefit from the legal guarantee attached to such contracts and the economies of scale which necessarily result. 
Appropriations carried over a relatively large amount of funds were carried over in 1996. 
80 % of the carry-overs in question related to procedural expenditure (searches/translation/publication, etc.). 
In accordance with Article 29 of the Financial Regulation, the Office must commit the procedural expenditure arising from Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 on the Community trade-mark the moment application charges are entered in the accounts. 
This is effectively unavoidable expenditure, the implementation of which is directly linked to the collection of the application charges. 
Clearly, during this start-up phase, taking into account the fact that the number of applications was much higher than anticipated (+ 280 %), the discrepancy between the commitment of procedural expenditure and the actual implementation of the procedures in question is much greater than normal operation. 
This situation is progressively being regularised; in 1997, appropriations carried over in respect of procedural expenditure will be significantly less. 
Lapsed appropriations/transfers of appropriations The 1996 budget was drawn up at the end of June 1994 and submitted to the Budgetary Authority in February 1995. 
At that stage, there was nothing to suggest that the OHIM would be faced with such a number of trade-mark applications. 
In June and September 1996 the OHI M informed its Budget Committee of how the situation was developing, drawing its attention to the budgetary consequences. 
It should be noted that some of the.lapsed funds come under Chapter 1 1 and relate in particular to Heading 1 1 3 3 (Constitution or maintenance of pension rights for temporary staff) (ECU 1 031 000). 
These funds were entered in the budget at the request of the Commission in order to cover the employers' contribution to pensions payable to staff (it was said that this entry was contrary to the staff regulations). 
I n the mean time, the Commission has indicated that no pension fund exists and that no amount is due as an employers' contribution. 
As regards the other lapsed appropriations, they are essentially funds relating to procedural expenditure for which it was impossible to make commitments in 1996 due to lack of time. 
Building There is no lease contract between the Spanish authorities and the OHI M. for the latter's occupation of its temporary seat at 20 Avenida de Aguilera. 
There is, however, a document entitled 'Acte de remise des clés du sičge provisoire' (Deed of delivery of keys to the temporary seat), which was signed on 25 February 1994 by the COSOAMI and the OHIM and which provides for the OHI M to occupy the temporary seat until it is able to occupy the final seat. 
Final seat The OHI M has taken note of the Court's observation concerning the availability of funds for the acquisition of the final seat. 
ITS Budget Committee has, however, approved the acquisition of the first phase of the final seat by means of bank loan financing. 
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/29 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/05) 1.1. 
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency, pursuant to Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 i1). 
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 1996. 
The Court carried out tests on the account books and records and also such additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary in this context. 
The observations set out in paragraphs 1.6 to 1.15 show that there are accounting practices in use at the Agency which are not consistent with the regulations. 
There are also certain sums for which no justification could be given. 
Subject to the above reservations, the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 1996 are - reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, guaranteed. of accounts. 
No such reconciliation was made during the financial year 1996. 
Furthermore, for the financial year 1996, such reconciliation was complicated by the consolidation of a substantial proportion of the general account entries (the various budget accounts were grouped into five major expenditure accounts in the general accounts; several non-budget entries concerning various credit or debit operations in respect of staff were also grouped together in a single account in the general accounts. 
Another weakness of this accounting system is the impossibility of checking a posteriori the level of funds during the year and thus of ensuring that available funds have not been exceeded. 
1.8. Furthermore, it was noted that a balance of approximately ECU 0,02 million was shown on the balance sheet (sundry accounts payable) for which the Agency was unable to provide the Court with the appropriate supporting documents (see consolidation problem mentioned in paragraph 1.6). 
The Agency's budget accounts are still behindhand and could not provide the authorising officers and the financial controller with the information they need if the former are to commit themselves legally in respect of third parties and the latter to give his approval to the proposals for commitments that are submitted to him. 
For this reason, the Agency has had to set up a parallel system for monitoring the implementation of the budget so as not to exceed available appropriations, as it did during the previous financial year (see report on the implementation of the 1995 budget), and to enable the authorising officers to check at all times the level of commitment of the funds for which they are responsible (failure to observe Articles 58 and 59 of the implementing provisions for the Commission's Financial Regulation, so apply to the EEA, as the Agency has not adopted its own implementing provisions). 
As the Sincom 2 system is unlikely to be available within a reasonable time, the Agency should preferably seek an alternative solution so as to have an effective accounting system at its disposal. 
The methodology applied during the financial year 1996 neither with accounting rules nor with the MAIN OBSERVATIONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (EEA, COPENHAGEN) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget and general accounts 1.6. 
The accounts continue to be kept on two different computerised accounting systems: commercial software is used for the general accounts and another tool is used for the budget accounts. 
This double system would require regular (at least monthly) Reconciliations of the two sets concerning THE 
C 393/30 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Communities' financial regulations and ultimately led to the financial statements (trial balance sheet and revenue and expenditure account) being submitted after the deadlines had expired. 
1.12. The approach adopted by the Management Board for drawing up and submitting the financial statements is thus not a relevant one. 
1996 payments recorded in 1997 1.15. 
Appropriations carried over; contracts 1.18. 
The percentage of funds carried forward This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. 5. 1990, p. 4. 
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI Edmann President 
29. 12. 97 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/31 Fixed assets Assets 1996 1995 153 2 209 9 2 371 0 172._ 32 421 5 740 6 365 3 243 11979 Liabilities Fixed capital Capital C) Balance carried forward Subtotal (2) Short-term liabilities Non-automatic carry-overs Automatic carry-overs Accounts for reuse Deductions from salaries Sundry accounts payable VAT refund Recovery order Suspense account Revenue receivable (3) Subtotal Total liabilities 1996 2 629 (3 387) (758) 89 6 126 129 15 20 28 10 0 6 392 12 809 12 051 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 2 371 1 844 4 215-989 5 997.0 0 153 172 32 421 0 7 764 11979 Equipment and furniture Office equipment Stocks 17 Subtotal Current assets Sundry accounts receivable VAT to be recovered Recovery order Suspense account Commission subsidy receivable 2 629 219 28 10 0 692 6 649 2 494 27? 
C 393/32 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND Expenditure ACCOUNT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Subsidy received from the Commission Miscellaneous revenue Exchange profits Subsidy receivable i1) Expenditure Staff - budget Title I Payments Appropriations carried over Total revenue 1996 8 329 157 0 0 8 486 4 500 235'2 099 193 1 4 6 5 5 786 20 14 298 (5 812) 1844 581 (3 387) (in ECU 1 000) 1995 6 219 362 0 5 740 12 321 2 896 202 1488 320 637 6 465 32 421 o. 12 461 (140) 193 1 791 1844 Buildings, equipment and various items of administrative expenses - budget Title II Payments Appropriations carried over Operating expenditure - budget Title III Payments Appropriations carried over Non-budgetary expenditure Payments to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Exchange loss Balance for the year (2) Balance carried forward from previous financial year Reimbursements to the Commission Appropriations over carried from previous year, cancelled Total expenditure Balance to be carried over (2) In the 1995 financial statements the part of the Commission subsidy still to be paid at the end of the financial year is included in the assets. 
29. 12. 97 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/33 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY Budgetary and general accounts Point 1.6 - Budget and accounting systems The Agency suffers from the lack of an integrated and automated budget and accounting system. 
C 393/34 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 and the resulting efficiency, the Agency will use SI2 for its integrated and automated budget and accounting system. 
29. 12. Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/35 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/06) 1.1. 
The Contracts and ACPC 1.12. 
C 393/36 ? Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 tender (sometimes in the absence of a preliminary invitation to interested parties to apply). 
O OJL36,12.2.1993,p. 6. 
OJ L 341, 30. 12. 1994, p. 7. 
C 393/38 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Commission subsidy Commission subsidy receivable Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff - Title I. 
29. 12. 97 [EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/39 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN MONITORING CENTRE FOR DRUGS AND DRUG ADDICTION 
C 393/40 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 1.16. 
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/41 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies (97/C 393/07) 1.1. 
C 393/42 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities' 29. 12. 97 for 1996) for certain items of expenditure was not recorded in the accounts of the Foundation (but in separate accounts). 
Awarding of contracts 1.12. 
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President ¦29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/43 Assets 1996 Computers Equipment and furniture 544 1995 326 242 0 568 24 543 0 567 3398 3 398 4 533 Liabilities Fixed capital Own capital (') Net results Shortterm liabilities 1996 1578 1794 3 372 665 431 3 288 350 56 432 4 9 45 5 280 8 652 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 0 1985 195 75 0 2 0 2 399 4 533 Fixed assets Office supplies Current assets Sundry accounts Subsidy (Commission 1995)· 543 Subsidy (Commission 1996) 431 Subtotal 986 Cash accounts Banks - current accounts 5 312 Imprest account 776 Subtotal 6 088 Total assets 8 652 ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 16 Subtotal 1578' Subtotal Deductions from salaries Sundry accounts payable Accounting officers' Indemnities Recovery orders Revenue earmarked for a special purpose Subtotal Total liabilities receivable 2 Nonautomatic Carryovers Subsidy to be paid (Commission) (2) Automatic carryovers.Current payments 1 0 1 8 '(') This amount corresponds to the fixed assets. 
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/45 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION 1.5. 
1.12. 
C 393/46 ? Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 be carried out for Tempus projects (Phare and Tacis) and Phare vocational training programmes. 
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/47 REPORT on the financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/08) 1.1. 
C 393/48 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 years), these contributions are to be flat-rate and are to be calculated on the basis of each body's forecast of its translation needs. 
OJ L 314, 7. 12. 1994, p. 3. 
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/49 Fixed assets 1996 17 464 Subtotal 481 BALANCE Assets 1996 SHEET FOR 1995 198 198 924 1122 THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Liabilities Fixed capital Own capital (x) Net results Short-term liabilities Appropriations carried over by the Budgetary Authority Automatic carry-overs Sundry accounts payable Net contributions from clients (2) Subtotal Total liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1995 334 334 320 468 788 1122 equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets Contributions from clients 259 Sundry accounts receivable 7 Subtotal 266 Cash accounts Banks - current accounts 1 894 Imprest account 109 Subtotal 2 003 Total assets 2 286 1 5 4 3 3 259 1 805 286 ANNEX TABLE 1 (') This amount corresponds to that of the fixed assets. 
Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Various revenue Own revenue Recoverable revenue (?) Expenditure Staff - Title I Payments Appropriations carried over Total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 90 2 703 2 793 1 155 905 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 12 1095 198 1305 181 393 2 395 971 334 Buildings, equipment, etc. - Title I Payments 88 Appropriations carried over over outturn for the financial year Outturn from previous financial year Appropriations carried over and cancelled. 
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/51 REPLIES OF THE TRANSLATION CENTRE FOR THE BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Budgetary accounts 1.5. 
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/53 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. (') OJ L 227, 1. 9. 1994, p. 27. 
C 393/54 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Fixed assets Equipment and furniture Computer equipment Intangible fixed assets Current assets Sundry accounts receivable Cash accounts Bank - current accounts Imprest account Subtotal Assets 1996 15 35 2 52 20 4 498 150 4 648 4 720 1995 24 2 26 0 3 403 3 429 Liabilities Fixed capital Own funds (x) Balance for the financial year 1996 52 3 885 3 937 472 28 283 783 4 720 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 26 3 065 3 091 97 ¦ 37 204 338 3 429 Subtotal Subtotal Total assets Short-term liabilities Automatic carry-overs of funds Sundry accounts payable Client advances ANNEX TABLET BALANCE SHEET FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS NB: A recovery order for ECU 300 000, issued by the Commission at the end of 1996 and corresponding to the subsidy paid to the Office when it started work in 1995, could not be included in the accounts for the financial year just closed. 
29. 12. 97 I EN. 
C 393/56 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE COMMUNITY PLANT VARIETY OFFICE The main points raised by the Court in this document on the execution of the budget for these years relate to the absence of: - effective IT for general and budgetary accounting, - a formal Financial Controller, a Consultative Committee on Procurement and Contracts. 
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/57 President of the Council had to stand in as 'mandataire', (b) no relevant purchase or tendering exercise exceeded the threshhold set under the Financial Regulation of the Commission. 
C 393/58 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/10) 1.1. 
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/59 were also delays in the recruitment of the persons who make up the Agency's basic staff. 
C 393/60 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Fixed assets Fixed assets Fixed capital Equipment and furniture Computer equipment Liquid assets Sundry accounts receivable Recoverable VAT and duties Own funds (l) Balance for the financial year Short-term liabilities Subtotal Cash accounts Banks - current Imprest acount account Subtotal Subtotal assets 34 16 50 1 9 7 100 2 075 2 157 Appropriations carried over by the Budgetary Authority Automatic carry-overs Sundry 'accounts due Assets 1996 25 7 Subtotal -32 Liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1996 
Source:' Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data. 
Annex TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Recoverable V A T and duties Subtotal Total liabilities 
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/61 TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR.1996 Total revenue (in ECU 1 000) 1996 3 000 36 3 036 292 81 884. 
6 3 0 319 2 206 830 830 Revenue Commission subsidy Sundry revenue Expenditure Staff - Title I Payments Buildings, equipment, etc. - Title II Payments Appropriations carried over Operating expenditure - Title III Payments. 
Appropriations carried over outturn for the financial year Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data. 
Total expenditure Balance for the financial year 
C 393/62 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK The Court of Auditors visited the Agency for Safety and Health at Work from 12 to 16 May 1997 and carried out the audit for the financial year 1996. 
The Director presented the objectives, programme and activities carried out, under way or planned. 
In order to facilitate the work of the Court, the accounts and all relevant supporting documents were made available to the Court. 
The personnel files and the contracts concluded were also presented. 
The Court forwarded its preliminary comments with a view to drawing up the report on the financial statements of the Agency (financial year 1996) in its letter No 001594 of 15 July 1997. 
The Agency, which welcomes the conclusions drawn in paragraph 1.4 of the Court of Auditors' draft report, in so far as the Court states that the financial statements for the financial year 1996 were reliable and, on the whole, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions were guaranteed, would like to comment on the following paragraphs. 
Paragraph 1.5. 
The breakdown is incomplete because when the budget was drawn up in 1995 it was not possible to plan in detail the budgetary requirements for the financial year 1996 and to include specific amounts; this was due to the fact that the Agency was in its start-up phase. 
As a result, 'token entry' was entered in most chapters. 
Paragraph 1.6. 
It is true that there is no documentary evidence to show that the Administrative Board of the Agency approved the amendments to the initial budget for 1996. 
In order to avoid a similar situation in the future it was agreed, at the meeting of the Bureau of the Administrative Board on 5 and 6 June 1997, that the minutes of meetings would include, in addition to the account of the discussions at meetings, a document explaining the formal decisions taken, in order to facilitate their retrieval. 
Paragraph 1.7. 
The Agency does not indeed possess suitable software for its budgetary accounts and it is provisionally using Excel. 
In order to overcome this, the Agency has joined forces with the other Agencies to analyse the feasibility of an integrated software package such as the prototype of the beta version of SI2 provided by the European Commission. 
Moreover, the Agency is following with interest the progress of the software being developed by Cedefop in Salonika, which would appear to meet our needs as it comprises a budgetary and accounting management module as well as human resource management modules. 
The Bilbao Agency will take a decision before the end of the year on the installation of one system or another, depending on the results of tests using both systems and the opinion of the supervisory bodies (Financial Controller and Court of Auditors). 
The Agency is doing all it can to improve the administration of its Imprest account and in September 1997 installed the RAI software with the assistance of the EMCDDA in Lisbon. 
Paragraph 1.8. 
In order to make good the deficiency described by the Court of Auditors, the Agency acquired Cubic software in June 1997 which, the training of the competent staff having been completed, is already being used to keep the general accounts. 
Paragraph 1.9. 
It is true that the implementation of the budget for 1996 was adversely affected by the delay in the recruitment of the Director and staff for the administration unit of the Agency. 
The staff were only recruited in May 1997, when the head of the unit and two assistants (a computer expert and a financial officer) took up their posts. 
This means that the gradual introduction of all the systems necessary to ensure sound financial management (staff management, budgetary and accounting management, conclusion of contracts and general services) did not begin until after the said date. 
Paragraph 1.10. 
At the time of the negotiations on the seat of the Agency the Basque Government and the County of Vizcaya committed themselves to pay 75 % of the cost of the rent of the office building occupied by the Agency. 
Despite the 
29. 12. 97 1 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/63 absence of an agreement signed between the Agency and the Basque authorities to this effect, the Basque Government has, as of September 1997, paid the Agency a subsidy of Pta 20 million and the County of Vizcaya has initiated the necessary procedures for the payment of its subsidy of Pta 10 million. 
Paragraph 1.11. 
In accordance with the provisions of its Financial Regulation, the Agency is doing all it can to make good the deficiencies pointed out by the Court of Auditors as regards public contracts and has recently submitted a draft Regulation for the creation of an ACPC for the opinion of the Financial Controller at the Commission and to the Court of Auditors for information; the Regulation is based, as far as possible, on the models adopted by the other Agencies. 
As regards the contracts for the procurement of goods and services concluded by the Agency, notably since the audit conducted by the Court in May 1997, it should be pointed out that invitations to tender have always been issued, even where the value of the estimated expenditure would have allowed private treaty. 
The Agency would like to assure the Court that it is doing all it can to acquire, as quickly as possible, all the means necessary to carry out the improvements indicated by the Court of Auditors. 
It would ask the Court to take account of the difficulties it has had in its start-up phase in respecting in full the rules arising from Financial and other Regulations to which all its activities should be subject. 
Notice TO READERS In 1998 several changes to the Official Journal (OJ) L & C subscription will be introduced. 
This notice aims to help paying subscribers make an informed choice about the new possibilities. 
EU LAW SERVICE Starting in January 1998, the full text (including tables and graphics) of new editions of the OJ L & C will be available in all 11 languages free of charge on the Internet (http://europa.eu.int) for a period of 20 days. 
OJ L&C CD-ROM In 1998 a CD-ROM version of the OJ L & C will be published in quarterly, cumulative, single-language editions. 
Current subscribers to the OJ L & C who purchase the CD-ROM subscription in addition to the paper or microfiche version or CELEX will benefit from a promotional discount of 50 % on the CD-ROM. 
A LAN option will be available. 
Individual copies of each CD-ROM can also be purchased. 
Flat FEE SUBSCRIPTION TO CELEX In Spring 1998 a flat fee subscription to CELEX will be available, offering one year's access at a fixed price (960 ECU), independent of consumption. 
CELEX is the EU's official legal database offering unparalleled coverage of EU legislation since 1951 (http://europa.eu.int/celex). 
Penalties FOR LATE Renewals OF PAPER SUBSCRIPTION Despatch of the paper version of the OJ L & C will be stopped on 31 January 1998 to all paying subscribers who have not renewed their subscription by then. 
Subscribers starting or renewing a subscription to the OJ L & C after this date may choose: (I) not to receive retroactive despatch of missing editions, and pay only for months received; (II) to receive the CD-ROM version of the missing editions, and pay the normal annual subscription fee; (III) to receive the paper version of the missing editions, and pay double for each month requiring retroactive despatch. 
Please note it is now possible to purchase all versions of subscription to the Official Journal L & C (paper, microfiche, off-line and CELEX) from any member of the EUR,-OP sales networks, except document delivery agents. 
Please contact your sales agent for further details on the above. 
Price ECU 'L + C' paper version ? 700-•L + C' Recruitment microfiches notices (*) (") 595-30-OJ Supplement (Notices and public contracts) calendar year 1997 1-32 33-64 pages pages 6,50 13-More than 64 pages Price determined case by case BELGIQUE/BELGIE Moniteur beige/Belgisch Staatsblad Rue de Louvain 4042/Leuvenseweg 4042 ?1000 Bnjxelles/Bnissel Tél. 
(322) 552 22 11 Fax (322) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/Koningslaan 202 B1060 Bruxelles/Brussel Tél. 
(322) 538 51 69 Fax (322) 538 08 41 Email: jean.de.lannoy @ infoboard.be Librairie européenne/Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/Wetstraat 244 B1040 Bruxelles/Brussel Tél. 
(322) 295 26 39 Fax 322 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 1012 DK2620 Albertslund Tlf. 
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 Email: schultz@schultz.dk URL: www.schultz.dk GERMANY Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 7880 Postfach 10 05 34 D50667 Köln Tel. 
(49221)20 290 Fax 49221 20 29 278 G.C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR105 64 Athens Tel. 
(301)33141 80/1/2/3 Fax (301) 323 98 21 Email: elebooks@netor.gr s.s.s. It is necessary to make sure that it is necessary to ensure that it is not necessary to do so. 
(301)3314180/1/2/3 ????a (301) 323 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellň, 37 E28001 Madrid Tel. 
(341) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (341) 575 39 98 Email: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: www.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficlal del Estado Trafalgar, 2729 E28071 Madrid Tel. 
(343) 488 34 92 Fax (343 487 76 59 FRANCE Journal officiel Service des publications des CE 26, rue Desaix F75727 Paris Cedex 15 Tél. 
(331)40 58 77 01/31 Fax 331 40 58 77 00 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 45 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel. 
(3531) 661 31 11 Fax 3531 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 150125 Firenze Tel. 
(3955)64 54 15 Fax (3955) 64 12 57 Email: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/ bibliot/vetrina/Licosa/tt1.htm grandduché DE LUXEMBOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L2411 Luxembourg Tél. 
(352)40 10 20 Fax (352) 490 661 E-mail: mdl@pt.lu subscriptions: Messageries Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L2339 Luxembourg Tél. 
Austria Manz'sche Verlags-und Universitâtsbuchhandlung GmbH Siebenbrunnengasse 21 Postfach 1 A1050 Vienna Tel. 
(431)53 161 334/340 Fax (431) 53 161 339 E-mail: auslieferung@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa NacionalCasa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A 1050 Lisboa Codex Tel. 
(3511) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (3511) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlnen Kirjakauppa/Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoisesplanadi 39/Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel. 
(3589) 121 41 Fax (3589) 121 44 35 E-mail: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractorvagen 11 PO Box 200 S22100 Lund Tel. 
(4646)18 00 00 Fax (4646) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel. 
(44171)873 9090 Fax (44171) 873 8463 URL: www.tne­stationery­office.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blondal Skólavördustig, 2 IS101 Reykjavik Tel.(354)55 15 650 Fax (354) 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 E tterstad N0606 Oslo Tel. 
(4722) 97 45 00 Fax (4722) 97 45 45 SCHWEIZ/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH8035 Zurich Tel. 
(411)365 53 15 Fax (411) 365 54 11 Email: urs.leimbacher(r) ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKA RE PUBLIKA NIS CR -prodejna Konviktskâ 5 CZ113 57Praha1 Tel. 
(422) 24 22 94 33 Fax (422) 24 22 94 33 Email: nkposp@dec.nis.cz' URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, Grivas Digenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY1509 Nicosia Tel. 
(3572) 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (3572) 361 044 E-mail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hâz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H1396 Budapest 62 Tel. 
(361)11 16 061/11 16 216 Fax (361) 302 50 35 E-mail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LOA 05 Malta Tel. 
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polona Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL00950 Warszawa Tel. 
(482)26 12 01 Fax (482) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dünya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad. 
(90212) 251 91 96 (90312)427 02 10 Fax (90212) 251 91 97 Balgarija EuropressEuromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel. 
(1613)741 73 33 Fax (1613) 741 54 39 Email: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/Renouf EGYPT The Middle E ast Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel. 
(813)3234 69 21 Fax (813) 3234 69 15 E-mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi­japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146 Sandten Tel. 
(2711)883 37 37 Fax (2711)883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611F Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel. 
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) Email: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MEXICO MundlPrensa Mexico, SA de CV RioPânuco, 141 Delegación Cuauhtemoc ME06500 México DF Tel. 
(525) 553 56 58/60 Fax (525) 514 67 99 Email: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE Corée Kyowa Book Company 1 F1. 
Other COUNTRIES Please address yourself to the sales office of your choice 95 (Libras)/15 (Suscnpciones) 49 (Libras)/14 (Suscripciones) Euromedia Str. 
(401) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax (401) 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka kniznica Nŕmestie slobody 19 SLO81223 Bratislava 1 Tel. 
(427)53 18 364 Fax (427) 53 18 364 Email: eurap@tbb1.sltk.stuba.sk SLOVENIA Gospodarski Vestnik Zalozniska skupina d.d. 
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 Email: belicd@gvestnik.si URL: www.gvestnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel. 
(9723)546 14 23 Fax (9723) 546 14 42 Email: rayil@netvision.net.il Subagent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel. 
9 117312 Moscow Tel.(095)135 52 27 Fax 095)135 52 27 SALES AND SUBSCRIPTION PRICES Annual subscription (including normal postage) Single copies (**) More information is available on the European Union via the INTERNET: http://europa.eu.int * &H> • OFFICE FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES L-2985 LUXEMBOURG paper version 800-CDROM 600-Special mailing charges are invoiced separately. 
The Officia/Journal of the European Communities and all other European Communications publi-cations on sale, whether periodical or otherwise, may be ordered at the sales offices listed below. 
N.B.: The subscription to the Official Journal of the European Communities also includes the 'Directory of Community Legislation in Force and other Acts of the Community Institutions' (two editions per year). (*) Only joint subscription (including delivery) are available to the L (Legislation) and C (Information and Notices) series of the Official Journal of the European Communities. (**) The notices of open competition, which are published as annexes to the C series, are basically free of charge from the Commission's offices in the Member States. 
For regular delivery of all notices of competition on a subscription basis a charge is made to cover postage. 
Sales AND Subscriptions BG1000 Sofia Tel. 
(3592) 80 46 Fax (3592) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR10000 Zagreb Tel. 
(3851)43 03 92 Fax (3851) 44 40 ROMANIA 59 
C 309/62 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work 2006 together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/11) INSTALLING....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
1-2 63 REQUIREMENTS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
7 63 Tables1-4.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
64 responsesofthe Agency......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/63 INCLUDING 1. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 (1). 
The tasks of the Agency shall include the collection and dissemination of information on national and Community prioritisations in the field of occupational safety and health, the support of the national and Community institutions concerned in the formulation and implementation of appropriate measures, and the provision of information on the implementation of preventive measures. 
COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRODUCT 3. This statement shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It relies on the audit of the Agency's invoice, which the Court must carry out in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st Financial year ended in December 2006 (3) was drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 and sent to the Court, who provides an explanation of the eligibility of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
6. The Court has an appropriate basis for the following explanation of eligibility. 
The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st year. The financial year ended in December 2006 is in all material respects. 
The following comment does not call into question the Court's discretion. 
REMARK 7. In 2006, the Director signed 19 decisions on an amount of around EUR 880 000 to authorise transfers of funds from articles to articles within chapters. 
Contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation (4), the Management Board was not provided with the necessary information. 
Consequently, the budgetary principle of the Specialitt was not strictly respected. 
FR the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER Prsident (1) OJ 
(3) The annual financial statements were received on 2 July 2007. 
(4) Article 23 of the Financial Regulation. 
C 309/64 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community matters relating to the Treaty of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994, most recently gendered by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 of 24 June 2005) governance structure 1. Appropriations made available to the Agency for 2006 (information for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Social legislation Objectives Tasks of the final budget: Creating connections and networking: The Community and the Member States shall (...) pursue the improvement of living and working conditions in order to facilitate, by means of progress, their alignment (...). 
In order to improve, in particular, the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on national and Community priorities as well as research, in accordance with the Treaty and the subsequent action programmes on safety and health at work; In order to achieve the objectives set out in Article 136, the Community shall support and endorse the activities of the Member States in the following areas: improving, in particular, the working environment to protect the health and safety of workers; the aim of the Agency shall be to provide Community institutions, Member States, social partners and stakeholders with all relevant technical, scientific and economic information in the field of occupational safety and health. 
Encourage cooperation and exchange of information, including information on training programmes; One representative of the workers' organisations from each Member State; Dissemination of information: (Excerpt from Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) Provision of information for the formulation and implementation of an effective policy for Community bodies and Member States, in particular as regards the impact on SMEs; 2. Executive Board of Personnel at 31. December 2006: Third generation information services on health and safety at work provided via the Internet. Source: Information from the Agency. 
Provision of information on Prventivma§-takes; Another representative of each group and the Commission. 
26 (20) Other posts (auxiliaries, seconded national experts, staff members of staff) Participation in the development of strategies and Community action programmes; Monitor the preparation and implementation of the decisions of the Board of Directors. 
4. Excerpts Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao), each of which is one government representative from each Member State; of which: N Stroking the tripartite structure in the Agency's networks; One representative of employers from each Member State; N Community grant, DG Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: 93.5 % (96 %), creation of institutional capacitors in the applicant countries (PHARE programmes). 
N various revenue: 2 %(1 %). Composition 40 (40) posts foreseen in the establishment plan, Chairman and 3 Vice-Chairs of the Management Board; of which: 33 (32), Development of knowledge: One coordinator per group; of which are not occupied: 7 (8). 
N Information material for national campaigns and campaigns in the context of the European Week 2006 (on young workers) and 2007 (MSE); Task Information material on workers, safety and health at work (OSH) & economic performance in the HORECA sector; 3. Director of the Executive Board, on a proposal from the Commission, is responsible for operational activities: N Information material on the monitoring of risks, including reports on research priorities in the field of OSH, biological agents and ultra-violet rays; Data collection on stress, problems due to shocks and skin problems, as well as musculoskeletal diseases in young workers in the framework of the 2006 and 2007 European weeks. 
42 (35), administrative activities: Mandatory invitation from the Commission and the Advisory Committee on Safety, Hygiene and Health at Work to the work programme. 
5. External control of the Court of Auditors. 
6. Discharge mandated by the European Parliament on the recommendation of the Council. 
19.12.2007 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 309/65 Origin of revenue Raised revenue Assignment of Community expenditure 13 200 247 11 900 248 Title I Personnel Title II General expenditure Title III Operational expenditure 4 556 1 524 7 367 4 080 1 481 7 025 3 831 1 083 5 060 125 600 75 28 47 Other revenue 381 61 331 313 17 Assigned revenue (1) 518 312 Assigned revenue (1) 518 407 324 194 0 206 0 total 13 965 12 460 Total 13 965 12 460 In total 13 965 12 993 10 298 2 663 1 005 2 825 2 155 670 Grant from the Community Other Income Other Income 11 730 238 1 580 13 548 11 021 284 2 460 13 765 71 Assets 247 Operating expenses Short-term pre-financing Short-term claims Cash and cash equivalents 435 27 2 990 3 774 454 administrative expenses (1) Other administrative expenses Other operating expenses 3 640 139 1 825 8 028 13 632 Đ 84 6 Đ6 Đ 90 3 312 Đ14 1 692 8 584 13 575 190 7 Đ7 183 Assets totalling 142 3 392 4 327 Revenues Expenditures from the final budget of the financial year revenue entered in the final budget of the financial year (1) The amount entered in the budget for assigned revenue amounts to EUR 661 000, of which only EUR 518 000 has been received. 
In order to provide a picture corresponding to the actual marriages, the correct amount of EUR 518 000 is shown at this point. 
Total (b) losses (losses) from operating activities (c = a Đ b) rectification of risks and liabilities Settlement liabilities 63 1 981 2 044 58 2 448 2 507 Financial expenditure (d) Net balance (losses) from non-operating activities (e = d) Economic result of the financial year (f = c + e) Cumulated profit/losses Economic result for the financial year (f = c + e) for the financial year 1 820 Đ 90 1 730 3 774 1 637 183 1 820 4 327 (1) The negative amount for 2005 is due to corrections. Total net total liabilities and net mergers Total (a) Circulation 2006 2005 (EUR 1 000) (EUR 1 000) Table 2 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) This table summarises the information provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
The revenue collected and payments are saved according to the cash-based accounting method. 
Table 3 Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) December 2006 and 31 December 2006. December 2005 Source: This table summarises the information provided by the Agency in its annual accounts. 
C 309/66 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANTWORTEN OF THE AGENTURY 1. The Agency shall adopt the remark. 
Since July 2007, the Management Board has been notified of all decisions taken by the Director regarding the Agency's extranet. 
C 311/50 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2007, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
COST-EFFECTIVENESS....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Tables1-4............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
52 responsesofthe Agency...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/51 INCLUDING 1. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter 'the Agency') was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 (1). 
The tasks of the Agency shall include the collection and dissemination of information on national and Community prioritisations in the field of occupational safety and health, the support of the national and Community institutions concerned in the formulation and implementation of appropriate measures and the provision of information on preventive measures. 
COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PRODUCT 3. This statement shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It relies on the audit of the Agency's invoice, which the Court must carry out in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st Financial year ended in December 2007 (3) was drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 and sent to the Court, who provides an explanation of the eligibility of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
5. The Court carried out its inspection in accordance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Officers (ISSAI) and the International Professional Foundations for the IFAC(4), provided that they are applicable in the Community context. 
6. The Court has an appropriate basis for the following declaration of eligibility: The Agency's annual accounts for the 31st year The financial year ended in December 2007 is well known in all material respects. 
FR the Court of Auditors Vtor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Prsident (1) 
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 24 June 2008 and received by the Court on 26 June 2008. 
(4) ISSAI stands for International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC stands for the International Federation of Accountants. 
C 311/52 DE Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Community areas of competence under the Treaty of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, as gendered by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) governance structure 1. Resources available to the Agency for 2007 (indications for 2006) Products and services in 2007 Social legislation Objectives Tasks of the final budget: Creating connections and networking: The Community and the Member States shall (...) pursue the improvement of living and working conditions in order to facilitate, by means of progress, their alignment (...). 
In accordance with the provisions of the Treaty and the subsequent Community strategies and action programmes for the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on national and Community priorities as well as on research; Composition of 14,9 million euros (EUR 14.1 million) finalisation and follow-up of the second external evaluation of the Agency's performance; In order to achieve the objectives set out in Article 136, the Community shall support and endorse the action of the Member States in the following areas: improving, in particular, the working environment to protect the health and safety of workers; B) working conditions; (...) 
Representatives of the (excerpts from Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) in the field of safety and health at work. 
N Task 25 (26) other posts (assistants, contract agents, seconded national experts and staff). 93.8 % of the Community grant, Directorate-General for the establishment of institutional capacitors in candidate countries and potential candidates (Phare and CARDS programmes). The aim of the Agency is to provide the Community institutions, the Member States, the social partners and the interested parties with all relevant technical, scientific and economic information to three representatives of the Commission. 
Total number of staff: 63 (59), of which operational activities: 47 (42) administrative activities: 9 (9) Other activities: 7 (8) Surveillance and evaluation: 2005 evaluation report on the campaign aClose with Lrm!; Online survey of website users; Performing a website benchmarking. 
N Chairman and 3 Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors; Composition of information material for national campaigns and campaigns in the context of the European Week 2007 (muscle and skeletal diseases) and 2008 (risk assessment); Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao), a government representative from each Member State; of which: N Community grant, a coordinator from each of the three stakeholders; N Information material on occupational safety and health projects and economic performance, the HORECA sector (guest sector), on the integration of occupational safety and health at work into education and cleaning; Another representative of each group and the Commission. 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/53 Source: Information from the Agency. Areas of Community competence under the Treaty of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, in the gendered version of the Agency by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Management structure of the Agency for 2007 (indications for 2006) Products and services in 2007 tasked with improving the quality and accessibility of information on good practical applications on the Agency's website and the online thesaurus. Monitor the preparation and implementation of the decisions of the Board of Directors. 
4. Compulsory guidance from the Commission and the Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work to the work programme and budget. 
5. External control of the Court of Auditors. 
6. Discharge mandated by the European Parliament on the recommendation of the Council. 
C 311/54 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue Collected revenue Assignment of expenditure Community contribution Other revenue 14 000 430 13 000 443 Title I Staff 4 797 1 623 8 010 4 292 1 443 7 880 3 996 1 087 4 972 160 641 184 130 79 47 Assigned revenue 498 491 147 282 68 194 194 0 Total 14 928 13 873 Total Assigned revenue 498 391 147 282 68 194 194 0 Total 14 928 13 873 14 928 14 006 10 202 3 702 1 023 2 663 2 312 351 Revenue Expenditures Revenue entered in the final budget of the financial year Title II Administration 352 381 369 11 Title III Operational expenditure 2 908 1 963 1 670 293 Table 2 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Information from the Agency. 
5.12.2008 DE Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Đ 3 491 (EUR 1 000) 2006 11 730 238 1 580 13 548 3 640 139 1 825 8 028 13 632 Đ 84 Đ6 Đ 6 Đ 90 Total (b) credit/losses from operating activities (c = a Đ b) Expenditure from financial transactions (d) credit/(loss) from non-operating activities (e = d) Economic result of the year (f = c + e) Source: Information from the Agency. 
Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) December 2007 and 31 December 2007 December 2006 (EUR 1 000) 2006 71 247 4 435 27 2 990 3 774 63 1 981 2 044 1 730 1 820 Đ 90 1 730 Investment assets Intangible assets 44 Property assets 261 Long-term receivables Current debts Short-term pre-financings Short-term claims Cash and cash equivalents Short-term liabilities rectifications for risks and liabilities Clearance liabilities Reserves cumulative/losses total liabilities Total liabilities Net assets 4 330 38 4 268 4 945 70 2 654 2 724 2 221 1 730 491 2 221 Source: Information from the Agency. 
C 311/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 ANTWORTEN OF THE AGENTURY 1. The Agency takes note of the Court's report. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union IV (Information) INFORMATION OF ORGANEs, INSTRUCTIONS AND SOCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION ACCOUNT Annual Report on the EU Agencies for the financial year 2017 (2018/C 434/01) INHALT C 434/1 DE ListederKrzel............................................................................................................................................ Page 2 4 15 29 CHAPTER 1 CHAPTER2 CHAPTER 3 The EU Agencies and the Court's inspection. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Survey results.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
De C 434/2 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 LIST OF THE KRZEL The list of Krzels includes the agencies and other bodies of the Union covered by this report. 
Full name Agency for the Cooperation of the Energy Regulators Committee of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications and the Institutions of the European Union European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Community Plant Variety Office Executive Agency Education, Audiovisual and Culture European Aviation Safety Agency Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises centre for the Prvention and Control of Diseases European Chemicals Agency European Fisheries Control Agency Europische Behrde for Food Safety European Institute for Gender Equality European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Occupational Pensions European Institute of Innovation and Technology European Medicines Agency European Maritime Safety Agency for Network and Information Security Krzel ACER Bro of the GEREK Cedefop Chafea CPVO EACEA EASA EASME EASO EBA EBDD ECDC ECHA EFCA EFSA EIGE EIOPA EIT EMA EMSA ENISA seat Ljubljana, Slovenia Riga, Latvia Luxembourg, Luxembourg Thessaloniki, Greece Luxembourg, Luxembourg Angers, France Brssel, Belgium Kln, Germany Brssel, Belgium Valletta, Malta London, United Kingdom Lisbon, Portugal Stockholm, Sweden Helsinki, Finland Vigo, Spain Parma, Italy Vilnius, Lithuania Frankfurt, Germany Budapest, Hungary London, United Kingdom Lisbon, Portugal Heraklion, Greece 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union Krzel EPA ERA ERCEA ESMA ETF EUA EUIPO eu-LISA EU-OSHA Euratom Eurofound Eurojust Europol FRA Frontex GSA INEA REA SRB C 434/3 Full name European Union Training Agency for Law Enforcement European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Railway Agency of the European Union Executive Agency of the European Research Council European Securities and Markets Supervisory Authority European Foundation for Vocational Training European Environment Agency Office of the European Union Intellectual Property Agency European Agency for the Works Management of IT-Gro§systems in the Area of Freedom, the Safety and Law European Agency for Safety and Health at Work Euratom Agency for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions of the European Union Agency for Justice Cooperation Agency of the European Union for Law Enforcement Agency of the European Union for Fundamental Rights European Agency for the Border and Kstenwache Agency for the European GNSS Executive Agency for Innovation and Networks Executive Agency for Research Single Resolution Committee Headquarters Budapest, Hungary Valenciennes, France Brssel, Belgium Paris, France Turin, Italy Copenhagen, Dnemark Alicante, Spain Tallinn, Estonia Bilbao, Spain Luxembourg, Luxembourg Dublin, Ireland The Hague, Netherlands The Hague, Netherlands Vienna, Austria Warsaw, Poland Prague, Czech Republic Brssel, Belgium Brssel, Belgium Brssel, Belgium 
De C 434/4 Official Journal of the European Union Chapter 1 EU Agencies and the Court's inspection INSTITUTION................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
Decentralised agencies deal with specific policy needs The Commission's executive agencies carry out EU programmes. . . . . . . 
CONTACT US........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
30.11.2018 Clause page 1.1-1.3 5 1.4-1.21 5 1.4-1.14 5 1.8-1.9 7 1.10 8 1.11-1.14 8 1.15-1.20 8 1.21 13 1.22-1.32 13 1.22-1.24 13 1.25-1.32 13 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/5 INCLUDING 1.1. 
In accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (1), the European Court of Auditors is the external partner of EU finances. 
In this capacity, the Court plays the role of the independent Hter of the Union's financial interests, in particular by helping to improve EU financial management. 
More detailed information on the Court's work can be found in its annual reports and annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget, as well as its special reports, landscape analyses and opinions on new or gendered EU legislation or other decisions affecting financial management (2). 
As part of its mandate, the Court annually examines the annual accounts and the underlying accounts of all Union institutions, agencies and other bodies (3). 
This report contains the results of the audit of the EU agencies and other bodies of the Union (together adie Agencies) for the financial year 2017. 
The report is structured as follows: N Chapter 1 gives a review of the agencies and the nature of the inspection of the Court. N Chapter 2 presents the overall results of the inspection. N Chapter 3, each of the 41 agencies, contains a declaration of eligibility, together with the audit judgments and the Court's observations on the eligibility of the agencies' accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying revenue and payments (Vorgnge). 
The EU AGENTURES Different types of agencies contribute to the design and implementation of EU policies at 1.4. 
Agencies are separate entities with their own legal personality, created by an act of secondary law, in order to carry out specific technical and scientific tasks or administrative tasks, thereby contributing to the design and implementation of the political measures taken by the EU institutions. 
Many agencies are clearly visible and have a significant impact on important areas that are important for the daily lives of European citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice. 
The information contained in Chapter 3 is accompanied by a brief description of the tasks carried out by each agency. 
In this report, the agencies use their respective crazes, which can be taken from the list at the beginning of this report. 
There are three types of agencies: decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other bodies. 
Its main characteristics are below. 
The number of agencies has increased over the years and was 41 agencies in 2017 as shown in Figure 1.1. 
(1) Articles 285 to 287 (OJ C 326, 26.10.2012, p. 169-171). 
(2) Available on the Court's website: (3) Three defence agencies (the European Defence Agency, the European Union Institute for Security Studies and the European Union Satellite Centre) financed by the contributions of the Member States are not tested by the Court but by other independent external agents. 
De C 434/6 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.1 Increase in number of agencies Source: European Court of Auditors. 
The Commission's executive agencies, like the Commission itself, are based in Brssel or Luxembourg. 
Decentralised agencies and other bodies are located throughout the EU and are spread across 23 different Member States, as shown in the list of Krzel and Figure 1.2. 
The seat of the agencies shall be decided by the Council or jointly by the Council and the European Parliament. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/7 Illustration 1.2 Headquarters of the agencies in the Member States Source: European Court of Auditors. 
Decentralised agencies address specific policy needs 1.8. 
The 32 decentralised agencies (4) play an important role in the preparation and implementation of EU policies, in particular technical, scientific, operational and/or regulatory tasks. 
The main objective is to meet specific political needs and to strengthen European cooperation by combining the expertise and expertise of the EU and national governments. 
The decentralised agencies have been established indefinitely by Regulation of the Council or the European Parliament and of the Council. 
Decentralised agencies operate under the control of a Management Board composed of representatives of the Member States, the Commission and in some agencies also from other parties. 
The Management Board shall define the operational framework to be followed by the Agencies, such as the multiannual and annual work programme, the budget drawdowns and the posts carried out under the responsibility of the respective Executive Directors/Directors. 
Each decentralised agency shall be subject to its own discharge procedure in relation to the implementation of its budget covering staff, administrative and operational expenditure. In most cases, discharge is granted by the European Parliament and the Council (5). 
(4) Cedefop, Eurofound, EEA, ETF, EMA, EMCDDA, CdT, CPVO, EUIPO, EU-OSHA, FRA, EASA, EFSA, EMSA, Eurojust, ECDC, ENISA, ERA, Frontex, GSA, EPA, EFCA, ECHA, EIGE, ACER, Bro des BEREC, Europol, EASO, EBA, EIOPA, ESMA and eu-LISA. 
(5) Two self-financed agencies (CPVO and EUIPO) are subject to the discharge procedure by their Management Board. 
De C 434/8 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The executive agencies of the Commission carry out EU programmes through 1.10. 
The six Commission Executive Agencies(6) are entrusted with implementing and operational tasks relating to one or more Union programmes. Their duration is limited in time. 
They have been set up by Commission decision and operate under the supervision of a steering committee appointed by the Commission. 
Their work is based on multiannual and annual work programmes established and implemented under the responsibility of an Executive Director. 
They are subject to individual discharge procedures by the European Parliament and the Council for their own budgets. 
In contrast to decentralised agencies, their budgets cover only human resources and administrative expenditure, while all the operational expenditure they cover comes from the Commission's budget and is therefore part of the total relief granted to the Commission. 
The own budget of the executive agencies therefore corresponds only to a very small part of the budget they actually carry out. 
The other bodies have specific tasks 1.11. 
The three other bodies are the EIT, the Euratom Supply Agency and the SRB. 
The EIT in Budapest is an independent, decentralised EU body that leverages science, business and education resources to boost the Union's innovative capacity by providing financial support. 
The Institute was established indefinitely by the European Parliament and the Council. 
It is headed by a Director and supervised by a Management Board and is subject to its own discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council. 
The Euratom Supply Agency in Luxembourg was established by the Council for an indefinite period to support the objectives of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community. 
It is subject to its own discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council. 
An advisory board composed of members from the Member States shall assist the Euratom Supply Agency in carrying out its tasks by issuing opinions and providing analyses and information. 
The Director-General of the Euratom Supply Agency shall work under the supervision of the Commission. 
The SRB is the central resolution authority in the Banking Union and is based in Brssel. 
The SRB is responsible for the orderly resolution of insolvency-threatening banks with a minimum impact on the real economy, the financial system and the public finances of the participating Member States and beyond. 
The SRB shall be reprsented by its Chairperson, who also performs the role of the appointing officer. 
The Chairperson of the SRB shall be subject to a separate discharge procedure by the Board, which invites members of the national resolution authorities of the participating Member States. 
Agencies are financed from various sources and under different MFF headings 1.15. 
The total budget of all agencies (excluding the SRB) in 2017 amounted to EUR 3.5 billion (2016: 3.4 billion euros). This corresponds to around 2.7 % of the EU's 2017 overall budget (2016: 2.4 %), as shown in Figure 1.3. 
The agencies with the highest increase in 2017 were the GSA and the EIT financed under the MFF (7) subheading 1a (Competitiveness for Growth and Employment), Frontex, EMA and EASO financed under MFF heading 3 (Security and Union Funding). 
In addition, the SRB's 2017 budget in Hhe is EUR 6.6 billion (2016: 11.8 billion euros) (8). 
It consists of the contributions paid by credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund. 
(6) INEA, REA, EACEA, ERCEA, Chafea and EASME. 
(7) Multi-year EU financial framework for the period 2014-2020. 
(8) The revenue budget for 2016 consisted not only of credit institutions' contributions to the Single Resolution Fund for 2016, but also of the 2015 contributions collected by the national resolution authorities in 2015, but only forwarded to the Fund in January 2016. 
Therefore, the overall budget for 2017 is much lower than the 2016 budget (6.6 billion against 11.8 billion euros). 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/9 1.17. 
The budgets of decentralised agencies and other bodies cover staff, administrative and operational expenditure, whereas executive agencies carry out programmes financed by the Commission's budget and cover their own budgets (around 241 million euro in total) only for staff and administrative expenditure. 
The Commission's operational expenditure paid by the six executive agencies amounted to around EUR 6.8 billion in 2017; this is more than double the overall budget of all other agencies together without the SRB. 
Illustration 1.3 Sources of funding for the agencies in 2017 Source: Total EU budget 2017 and 2017 budgets of the Agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors. 
Most agencies, including executive agencies, are almost fully financed from the EU's overall budget. 
The other agencies are fully or partially financed by fees and fees, as well as by direct contributions from participating countries such as Member States, EFTA countries, etc. The EU's overall budget totalled around EUR 2.5 billion. In addition, 1 billion euros came from fees and fees as well as direct contributions from the participating countries. 
Figure 1.4 shows an increase of the agencies according to the extent of the contributions received from the EU budget. 
De C 434/10 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.4 Agencies by volume of contributions from the EU budget Source: Agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/11 1.19. 
The 2.5 billion euros in contributions from the EU's overall budget are financed under various MFF headings, as shown in Figure 1.5. 
Illustration 1.5 Financing of agencies by MFF heading of the EU general budget Source: Multi-year EU financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and 2017 budgets of the agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors. 
As regards staff, the agencies employed around 11 000 staff (9) at the end of 2017 (2016: 10 300); this corresponds to about one-sixth of the total staff employed by the EU institutions and agencies. 
Figure 1.6 can be found on the breakdown of the total staff to the individual agencies. 
(9) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. 
De C 434/12 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.6 Deployed by agency at the end of 2017 Source: Agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/13 The Network of EU Agencies promotes agency-wide cooperation and communication with interested parties 1.21. 
The EU Agencies Network (EUAN) has been set up by the Agencies as an agency-wide forum for cooperation to increase the visibility of agencies, identify and generate potential efficiency gains and add value. 
The EUAN works on the basis of the priorities set out by the agencies in a 5-year strategy agenda (2015-2020) and the annual work programmes, which define the activities and the results to be achieved. 
An important role played by the EUAN is to ensure efficient communication between the agencies and interested parties, mainly to the EU institutions. 
The Court's mission is to examine the annual accounts and the agencies' advances 1.22. 
In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court has (a) the annual accounts of all agencies consisting of the annual accounts(10) and the reports on budget implementation (11) for the 31st year. The financial year ended December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts. 
On the basis of the results of its inspection, the Court shall provide the European Parliament and the Council or the other discharge authorities referred to in Chapter 3 of this report to each agency with an explanation of the eligibility of the accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying assets. 
In accordance with Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (12), the annual accounts of 32 agencies receiving benefits from the EU budget were audited by independent external agents. 
The Court assessed the reliability of the results of this review in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and took these into account when drawing up its own audit opinions. 
The Court's assessment of the risks identified is 1.25. 
In order to obtain sufficient certainty, the Court has designed its inspection in such a way as to shed light on the main risks identified. As regards the eligibility of the agencies' accounts, there is generally a low risk 1.26. 
Overall, the Court considers the risk to all agencies to be low in terms of the reliability of the accounts. The accounts of the agencies shall be drawn up using the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector. 
The number of material errors identified in the past was small. 
Title I (staff expenditure) 1.28. 
The Commission's management of the Gehlters by the Commission's Office for the Determination and Resolution of Individual Audits (PMO) is reviewed by the Court in its specific assessments of administrative expenditure. 
No material errors have been detected in relation to staff expenditure in recent years. 
However, if the agencies have to recruit additional staff to a large extent in the short term, there is a medium to high risk for the legality and regularity of recruitment procedures. 
(10) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(11) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
(12) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
De C 434/14 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Title II (Administrative expenditure) 1.29. 
The procurement of various services (with increasing stakes in the IT sector) includes complex procurement rules and procedures, and agencies' administrations sometimes do not achieve satisfactory transparency and not the best price-performance marriage. 
Serious procurement errors affecting the conditions for payment were, as a rule, one of the main reasons for concurred tender opinions and observations of the Court. 
Title III (operational expenditure) 1.30. 
There is a low to high risk. 
This depends on the Agency and the nature of its operational expenditure. 
In general, the risks associated with the procurement are comparable to those in Title II, but the stakes concerned may be lower. 
As regards the grants paid under Title III, it was noted that, despite overall improvements, the agencies' controls were not always fully effective. 
There is a medium risk with regard to the sound financial management, mainly identified in the areas of IT and public procurement procedures. 
The Court has already reported on its findings on various IT landscapes in the agencies, weaknesses in IT project management and procurement procedures that did not ensure the best price-performance marriage. 
In general, the large number of small agencies (see Figures 1.4 and 1.6), which have their own administrative structures and procedures, poses a risk of administrative efficiency. 
THE RESULTS OF THE ANNUAL TESTS OF THE FR AGENCIES IN 2017 ARE INSGESAMTPOSITIV...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Unbridled opinions on the eligibility of the accounts for all agencies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
Absences to emphasise a situation are fundamental to the understanding of the annual accounts............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
The Court's observations cover a wide range of topics. . . . . . . REPORTS FROM OTHER RELATED TO THE AGENCIES,THEVOMHOF2017FURDEN......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Special ReportofHofesberdenSRB................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
De C 434/16 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 INCLUDING 2.1. 
This chapter provides a review of the results of the agencies' annual audits for 2017 carried out by the Court, as well as further audit work related to the agencies carried out by the Court in the course of 2017. 
OVERALL, THE RESULTS OF THE ANNUAL TESTS OF THE FR AGENCIES IN 2017 ARE POSITIVE 2.3. 
Overall, the Court's audit with regard to the annual accounts of the Agencies for the 31st year The year ended December 2017 and the revenue and payments underlying these accounts the positive results from previous years. 
The Court delivered unbridled opinions on the annual accounts of all agencies. 
According to its assessment, the annual accounts of the agencies present their merging and financial position at 31. In all material respects, in all material respects, the results of their advances and cash flows for the year ended on that date in accordance with their respective financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer (13) are appropriate in all material respects. 
Absences to emphasise a situation are fundamental to the understanding of the annual accounts 2.5. 
As regards EASO, the Court pointed out that the staff situation in the Bro was exponentially deteriorating. 
The Bro does not currently have the administrative capacity to fill the many vacancies. 
Overall, the staff situation has significantly contributed to the continuation of the bros's activities at present. 
In the case of the SRB, the Court highlighted that the contributions to the Single Resolution Fund are calculated on the basis of the information provided by credit institutions to the Board on the national resolution requirements. 
However, the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure the reliability of this information. 
We also found that the method for calculating contributions laid down in the legislation is very complex, which entails risks for accuracy. 
For reasons of confidentiality, the Board shall not disclose the data of credit institutions used for the calculation of the Funds; this reduces transparency. 
With regard to ECHA, the Court highlighted that the Agency is partly self-financed and that it receives a fee from each company requesting the registration of chemicals, as provided for in the REACH Regulation.(14) 
The calculation and invoicing of the fees shall be carried out by the Agency on the basis of the information provided by the undertakings at the time of submission of the application. 
The ex-post reviews carried out by the Agency have shown that there is a need for rebate corrections, the total amount of which was not known at the end of 2017. 
This finding shows the constraints of a system which, in too high terms, is based on self-crowding of the applicants. 
With regard to the GSA, the Court pointed out that the outcome of the public procurement procedure for one of the Agency's main contracts (framework agreement worth EUR 1.5 billion) was challenged by one of the tenderers. 
With regard to the two agencies established in London (EMA and EBA), the Court pointed out that they will leave the United Kingdom in 2019 and that their annual accounts, together with the desire to recover, have been drawn up on the basis of the information available at the time of their signature. 
The Court highlighted the impact of the current lease agreements in London and the potentially declining revenue resulting from the withdrawal of the United Knigreich from the EU. 
These are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector. Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18. December 2006 on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Control of Chemicals (REACH) 
L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/17 unrestricted opinions on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts of all agencies 2.12. 
FR All Agencies the Court has unrestricted opinions on the legality and regularity of the annual accounts for the 31st year. On December 1, 2017, underlying revenues were delivered. 
According to the Court's assessment, revenue was legal and orderly in all material respects. 
Unrestricted opinions on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts of the agencies (with the exception of EASO) 2.13. 
FR 40 Agencies the Court has unrestricted opinions on the legality and regularity of the annual accounts for the 31st year. December 2017 underlying payments made at the end of the year. 
According to the Court's assessment, payments were legal and orderly in all material respects. 
Since the findings occur systematically, the internal control system is obviously incisive. 
The cumulative error resulting from the irregular payments amounts to at least EUR 7.7 million or 10.3 % of the total payments made by the Bro in 2017. 
Absents referring to other facts deal with issues of particular importance 2.15. 
In order to indicate other facts, the reader should draw attention to important points that are neither presented or specified in the annual accounts nor concern the legality and regularity of revenue and payments. 
With regard to the EIT, the Court found that the initial reimbursement rates for Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) were raised towards the end of the Frder period. 
In addition, two KICs have added some new tricks to the annual business splint. 
For one of the KICs, this resulted in a significant EUR change in the original grant decision. 
Significant EUR changes may affect the equal treatment of KICs and are not in line with the Financial Regulation. 
In the case of Frontex, the Court has repeatedly reported since 2014 that the co-operating States often provide insufficient evidence of the expenditure they claim. 
This was also confirmed by this year's testing results. 
In response to the recommendation made by the Court in 2016, Frontex is currently implementing a simplified cost reimbursement model. 
With regard to EBA, EIOPA and ESMA, the Court pointed out that their budgets are partly financed from the European Union funds and partly from direct contributions from the supervisory authorities and/or the supervised bodies of the EU Member States. 
As a result of the decision of the United Knigreich to leave the EU, Behrden's revenue could decline in the future. 
With regard to the GSA, the Court reported that the Agency operates both the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) and Galileo ground stations in the United Kingdom, which may need to be relocated. 
With reference to the CdT, the Court pointed to the fact that several agencies increasingly resorted to in-house or other alternative replacements, which meant that the capacitance of the centre was not used to the maximum. 
In addition, there is double effort at European level with regard to the development of monitoring systems and running costs. 
In December 2016, the Bro of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (Bro des BEREC) mandated the CdT to issue four calls for expressions of interest with a view to drawing up reserve lists, despite the fact that all the posts authorised by the budgetary authority in the establishment plan of the Bros were filled. 
In the Court's view, the assignment issued in December 2016 was not justified. 
The payment made for this contract in March 2017 amounted to 2.5 % of the 2017 budget. 
De C 434/18 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.1 Annual audit opinions 2014-2017 on the annual accounts and advances of the agencies Source: European Court of Auditors. 
The Court's observations cover a wide range of topics 2.22. 
The Court made a total of 145 comments concerning 37 agencies in order to highlight important issues and identify areas where there is a need for improvement. 
These comments set out in Chapter 3 are summarised below. 
Major risks lead to significant weaknesses in EASO 2.23. 
In the case of EASO, the Court pointed out the major risks arising from the nature of its activities and the extraordinary challenges posed by the migration crisis. 
These risks were not mitigated by a sound governance structure and effective controls, which led to numerous essential stances against the legislation. 
Since 2014, the Bro has been struggling with a high personnel turnover. The recruitment procedures were suspended in December 2017. 
In addition, neither an internal audit body nor a legal service is established at the Bro, and legal documents are not systematically reviewed. 
Almost all the services tested, which were based on public procurement or recruitment procedures, were systematically affected by significant mismatches related to the determination of the needs of the Bros, the preparation of the tender specifications, the choice of the type of contract, the evaluation and award procedures, the changes and improvements of contracts, the use of the contract and the performance of the services provided, etc. 
These angels are at odds with the basic principles of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/19 Progress towards a more streamlined IT landscape 2.26. 
The operational activities of the agencies are broadly researched and require suitable, sometimes tailor-made IT solutions. 
Nevertheless, central operational and administrative activities are carried out on the basis of the same legal framework, suggesting that their procedures are used and that IT consultations can be used to support these procedures. 
While the agencies made very large progress on the use of financial and accounting systems, the Court reported in its 2016 summary report on the results of the audits at the agencies, a large number of IT services were still used in other key areas such as human resources management and procurement and management. 
The agencies will consider further harmonising IT operations in these areas, in particular to increase cost-efficiency, reduce the risks associated with internal control and strengthen IT governance. 
In 2017, a number of progress was made on IT tools for human resources management when 20 agencies concluded agreements with the Commission on the use of the SYSPER II tool, creating a more uniform IT landscape in this area. 
The majority of the agencies will use the Commission's tool from 1 January 2019, while it will be used in some agencies starting in the third quarter of 2018. 
In this fragmented IT landscape, the use of electronic tools for the procurement of supplies and services (electronic procurement) would also be an important step towards a streamlined IT framework among agencies. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation, which entered into force in 2012 and 2013 respectively, all EU institutions and agencies shall design and implement, as far as possible, the submission, storage and processing of data submitted in grant and procurement procedures; they shall establish a common area for electronic data exchange (15), (16) for applicants, candidates and tenderers. 
While no target date has been set in the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation for the implementation of e-procurement, the 2014 EU Directive on public procurement(17) requires the use of electronic means for public procurement in the EU Member States by 2018, and pursuant to the EU directive on electronic invoicing(18), which was also adopted in 2014, it is necessary to allow the receipt of electronic invoices by 2019. 
(15) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(16) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013 of 30 September 2013 on the framework financial regulation for bodies referred to in Article 208 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Art. 79 e-government) 
(17) Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC 
(18) Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing for public procurement 
De C 434/20 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2.29. 
All agencies publish their tenders electronically via TED (Tenders Electronic Daily), the online version of the EU Public Procurement Official Journal. In addition, the Commission launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). By the end of 2017, most agencies had introduced e-invoicing and electronic tendering for certain procedures, but not the electronic submission of tenders. 
Improvement in IT consulting services and project management at EMA and eu-LISA IT consulting services and project management at EMA 2.30. 
In the course of the audit carried out last year, the Court analysed how the agency manages advisory services. 
The extensive use of consulting firms has led to a critical affiliation of external expertise. 
The Court also reported that the control of project development and implementation was insufficient and that the projects resulted in appreciable distortions and cost increases. 
In the course of 2017, the agency took several measures to improve the situation. 
However, it will take time to reduce the critical adequacy of the agency of consulting firms, and the impact of the measures taken will only show up in the years. 
It consulting services and project management at eu-LISA 2.32. 
The Agency mainly uses consulting services in connection with IT projects due to the nature of its activity. 
In 2017, the Agency's IT projects were implemented within the financial and time frame. 
The Agency uses a outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, in which around 90 % of the corresponding work is carried out by three contractors. 
Although the IT projects are owned and controlled by the Agency, a model in which the development capacities for such sensitive IT systems are outsourced to this extent entails the risk of excessive adequacy from the contractors. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/21 2.34. 
At the same time, the small number of staff in operational key units creates a risk for the continuance of the holding. 
Public procurement is intended to ensure competition between economic operators and to ensure the most economically viable purchase, with a transparent, objective and consistent approach on the basis of the current legal framework. 
We identified 14 agencies (Bro des BEREC, EPA, Chafea, eu-LISA, EASO, EBA, EEA, EFSA, EIGE, EUIPO, ERA, EASA, FRA and SRB) Mngel in the field of public procurement, mostly in relation to services that pose risks for optimal use of funds. 
Among the most frequently identified mismatches, the lack of a balanced relationship between price and quality aspects in the award criteria, the lack of optimal design of the framework agreements, the use of framework agreements allowing the procurement of services, the description and/or price of which were not sufficiently defined and the use of intermediary services. 
Most agencies analysed the impact of Brexit 2.36. On 29. In March 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit). 
Unlike most other agencies, fnf agencies (ACER, Bro des BEREC, EPA, ENISA and EU-OSHA) did not carry out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on their organisation, operational discharges and accounting. 
Vacancy notices were published on the EPSO website 2.37. 
Most agencies (ACER, Cedefop, EPA, Chafea, EASA, EBA, ECHA, EEA, EIGE, EIOPA, EIT, EMA, EMCDDA, EMSA, ENISA, ESMA, eu-LISA, Eurojust, Europol, Frontex, GSA and SRB) publish vacancy notices on their own websites and on social media, but often not on the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
A publication on the EPSO website would increase transparency and publicity and allow Brgers to view vacancy notices from all European institutions. 
The main reason cited by the agencies is that EPSO requires the publication of vacancy notices in all the official languages of the EU, which entails high replacement costs. 
Fewer comments on the legality and regularity of payments 2.38. 
The number of comments on the legality and regularity of payments decreased to eight (2016: 11), which illustrates the continued commitment of the agencies to comply with the legal framework, in particular the provisions of the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation and the Staff Regulations. 
While fnf comments again concerned Mngel in relation to procurement procedures (EASO, EASA, EIGE and Frontex), three were related to recruitment procedures (EASO, Cedefop and Frontex). 
Budget management has improved 2.39. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, budget appropriations for a given year may be transferred to the next year under certain conditions (19). 
It is true that the Financial Regulation does not set any ceilings for such transfers and the multi-annual nature of the operations also largely justified. Nevertheless, outstanding transfers may be an indication of distortions in the implementation of work programmes or procurement procedures and may also be contrary to the budgetary principle of honorability. 
Illustration 2.4 shows how many agencies the Court reported in 2017 and in previous years on high budget transfers. 
The move to only two agencies (Chafea and EU-OSHA) in 2017 should be attributed to the fact that the agency's contributions have been better and more transparently lured and welcomed, but also to the Court's gendered approach to reporting in 2017. 
(19) The conditions for transfers are met in Article 13 of the Financial Regulation. 
De C 434/22 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.4 Less comments on excessive or high appropriations Source: European Court of Auditors based on information provided by the agencies. 
In addition, the Court found that two agencies (Frontex and EUIPO) cancelled budget appropriations from previous years. 
This was an indication that the need for funds was overestimated, in particular by the public authorities of the Member States and other cooperating States. 
Accounting could be further improved 2.42. 
In the course of this year's audits, the Court also reviewed the accounts of the agencies, which has an important role to play in drawing up the annual accounts. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, each agency has its own accounting officer. This has led to a total of 37 accounting directors responsible for 2 % of the EU budget. 
The main tasks of the accounting officer are the acquisition of payments, the acceptance of receipts and the recovery of the receivables, the preparation and presentation of the annual accounts as well as the accounting management, the establishment and validation of the accounting systems and the cash management. 
In order to increase efficiency, the Commission's accounting officer requested all agencies to delegate their accounting function on a contract basis in 2012. 
The first agency to adopt this proposal was the EPO in 2014. 
By the end of 2017, only three other agencies (GSA, Bro des BEREC and ACER) had joined the scheme. 
The hierarchical position of an accounting officer within an agency may affect his independence. 
In particular, the accounting directors must be independent of persons who are (subordinately) able to make commitments, enter into legal commitments and direct payments. 
This comment concerns a total of 13 agencies (CdT, EACEA, EASA, EASME, EEA, EFSA, EIOPA, EMA, EMCDDA, ERA, EU-OSHA, Eurofound and FRA). 
The designation and annual appraisal of the accounting officer should then also fall within the scope of the Board of Directors. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, accounting directors must insist that the agencies' accounting systems function properly (validation). 
While the validation of the accounting systems of most agencies is up-to-date, we found that the accounting systems of seven agencies (ACER, Bro des BEREC, EPA, EASME, EIT, EMA and GSA) were subject to timely revalidation due to major EUR changes. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/23 Illustration 2.5 Status of the independence of the agencies' auditors and the revalidation of accounting systems Source: European Court of Auditors based on information provided by the agencies. 
In three agencies (EASO, CPVO and REA), procurement, grant and recruitment procedures have been undeniably documented. 
In three agencies (ACER, EIT and Frontex), Mngel was identified in the implementation of the Internal Control Standard concerning the Emergency Plne. 
In the event of catastrophes, these angels could present a significant risk for the maintenance of business operations, as data could be irrevocably lost. 
Agencies continue to track audit findings from previous years 2.47. 
Where applicable, the Court reported on the state of play of the follow-up measures taken by the agencies following comments from previous years. 
Figure 2.6 shows that the correction measures related to the 170 comments not yet implemented at the end of 2016 were completed or underway in most cases. 
Of the 13 outstanding observations, the corrective measures required for three observations were not subject to the Agency's control. 
De C 434/24 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.6 Agencies to follow-up observations from previous years Source: European Court of Auditors. 
The Court forwards Flle alleged fraud to OLAF 2.48. 
OLAF then has the power to investigate and follow up in these cases, in cooperation with the national judicial authorities, where appropriate. 
In 2017, the Court identified three cases of alleged fraud, which it reported to OLAF, in the context of its inspection of unrestricted 1000 advances and 150 procurement procedures with regard to the claims made to the agencies. 
We provide information on reports from the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) and external evaluation reports 2.49. 
For information purposes, the Court also referred to IAS audit reports and external evaluation reports prepared on behalf of the Commission. 
In 2017, 26 IAS reports were prepared and an external evaluation of an agency was carried out in nine cases. 
The Court has not reviewed the appropriate screening or evaluation processes. 
Press releases from others with the agentures in the SUMMER HANKING REPORTS FROM HOF 2017 FROM HOF 2017 Rapid Case Review (Rapid Case Review) on the implementation of the 5 % reduction of posts 2.50. 
In 2017, the Court prepared a quick analysis (20) on how the European Union institutions and agencies implemented their commitment to reduce staff foreseen in their posts by 5 % over the period 2013-2017 (fr Agencies 2014-2018). 
The Court concluded that the agencies implemented the 5 % reduction in staff, albeit with some deteriorations. 
While decentralised agencies with traditional tasks managed to reduce their staff by 8.9 %, the number of employees of certain decentralised agencies and executive agencies entrusted with new tasks and obligations increased by 19.9 % and 42.9 % respectively. 
Box 2.7 shows the resulting percentage changes in posts in all institutions, bodies and agencies. 
(20) Rapid Case Review on the implementation of the 5 % reduction of posts; published on 21. December 2017. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/25 Illustration 2.7 Analysis of changes in the number of posts in posts between 2012 and 2017 (%) Source: European Court of Auditors. 
Special report by the Court on SRB 2.51. 
The Single Resolution Board (SRB) based in Brssel was established in August 2014. It is part of the political response to the financial crisis. 
The Board's task is to resolve insolvency-threatening banks that fall within its scope. 
In January 2017, the SRB was responsible for 139 banks, including 130 banking groups (21). 
In the context of the inspection (22), it was examined whether the Committee was in favour of effectively winding up banks. Particular attention was paid to the quality of resolution planning for individual banks and whether the Board was properly prepared to meet the legal requirements in the area of resolution planning and provided sufficient human resources to carry out its tasks. 
We identified deficits in all these areas. However, since the establishment of the Committee as a completely new structure was a huge challenge, the weaknesses should be seen against this background. 
The Court made a number of recommendations to the Board with regard to the preparation of resolution plenums and the completion of its rules and guidelines, with a view to increasing staff and improving human resources management procedures. 
(21) On 1 January 2018, the number decreased to 127 banks and 119 banking groups. 
(22) Special Report No 23/2017: aSingle Resolution Board: First steps have been taken on the challenging path to the banking union, but it is still a long way to reach the goal, published on 19. December 2017. 
De C 434/26 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Special annual report of the Court on contingent liabilities resulting from the performance of the Single Resolution Board 2.54. 
In accordance with the Regulation on the Single Resolution Mechanism (23), the Court must draw up a report on all contingent liabilities resulting from the fact that the Board, the Council and the Commission carry out their tasks under this Regulation. 
At 31. In December 2016, the contingent liabilities of the Committee resulting from the ex-ante contributions amounted to EUR 842 million, which increased to EUR 1 420 million as of 30 September 2017. 
In 2016, the Board did not initiate bank resolution and, consequently, no contingent liability related to resolution decisions was to be reported for the financial year 2016. 
However, at the time the Court's 2016 report was published on contingent liabilities resulting from the Board's performance of its tasks, 90 legal proceedings against the Board had been brought before the General Court of the European Union by the end of October 2017 on the resolution decision taken in June 2017 with regard to Banco Popular Espaol S.A. and 46 complaints were lodged with the SRB Board of Appeals. 
The Commission and the Council were informed of 26 proceedings brought before the General Court in connection with the above-mentioned resolution decision. 
Other special reports by the Court relating to one or more agencies 2.55. 
Apart from audit reports dedicated specifically to agencies, the Court produced a series of special reports and analyses on the implementation of EU policies during 2017 concerning a number of agencies (see Box 2.8). 
(23) Article 92(4) of the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/27 Illustration 2.8 Other special reports and analyses of the Court relating to the agencies Source: European Court of Auditors. 
De C 434/28 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE NETCWERKS OF THE EU AGENTURES The Agencies welcome the Court's positive conclusions on the reliability of their annual accounts and the accounts underlying those accounts. 
The network expressed its concerns that given the fact that the Commission only provides them with a basic package of modules in Sysper, the Agencies will be forced to continue to use separate tools for assessment, teleworking, flexitime and staff reporting. 
The IT landscape in the field of human resources management will therefore only become partially more uniform and even less so than the Commission can decide. 
The Agencies also consider the possibility of carrying out a joint operation for the services concerned in order to support recruitment procedures not currently covered by Sysper. 
In the field of procurement, there has definitely been a development towards harmonisation of electronic tools over the last two years. 
This development began in 2015/2016 when the e-PRIOR/electronic procurement tools designed by DG DIGIT in cooperation with DG BUDG were developed. 
Since then, this set of electronic modules for all phases of the procurement cycle has become more and more a standard that agencies adhere to. 
In 2018, this trend continued to grow when new modules for electronic submission and the ABAC LCK module were introduced and made available to the agencies. 
Little by little, the agencies put the use of their own isolated tools in some fast, some less fast, but relentless of how quickly this development is going to take place, the trend in itself is not in itself. 
In practice, the proposed efficiencies that could be achieved through the transfer of accounting tasks to the European Commission are difficult to achieve. 
The required workload not only depends on the balance of the budget, but it must also be taken into account that the annual accounts must be finalised at the beginning of each year in a tight time window. 
Experience shows that almost twice as much staff is required for the conclusion of more than one package of annual accounts (i.e. with additional financing through delegation agreements), although the corresponding betrge are smaller (and the financial assets paid less). 
However, when transferring these assets to the Commission, each agency would still have an accounting team, as accounting tasks still need to be carried out. 
As long as this is the case, any savings in staff would not be equivalent to a full-time equivalent. 
In addition, the annual fee must still be paid. 
For this reason, only a few agencies have decided to give this task to the Commission. 
The network would like to point out that no investigation or risk assessment has yet been carried out to justify the conclusion that the irresponsibility of the accounting officer would have been stalled if he was directly subordinated to the authorising officer and not to a duly authorised authorising officer. 
Some agencies have decided to adopt a charter of accounts, including rules for reporting to the governing body where necessary. 
C 434/29 Page 31 33 33 38 43 46 56 61 61 61 75 79 83 87 90 94 98 103 103 109 112 112 116 128 132 141 149 153 161 165 DE AGENTUREN THE MFF TEILRUBIC 1A FINANCIAL CONSULTATION............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
European Agency for Maritime Safety (EMSA)................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
European Institute for Equality (EIGE)....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
European Agency for the operational management of large-scale IT systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-LISA)................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
De C 434/30 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Page 3.29. 
169 3.30. 
184 3.31. 
188 3.32. 
Euratom Supply Agency.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
191 3.33. 
191 3.34. 
195 3.35. 
Single Resolution Committee (SRB)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
205 EXECUTIVAGENTURENCOMMISSION............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
209 3.37. 
209 3.38. 
213 3.39. 
217 3.40. 
221 3.41. 
225 3.42. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/31 3.1. 
We have carried out our testing in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) as well as the professional behaviour requirements of the IFAC and the International Standards for Supreme Audit Officers (ISSAI) of INTOSAI. 
Our responsibilities according to these standards are further described in the section of our report. 
We are independent in accordance with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code) as well as the professional behavior requirements relevant to our testing, and we have fulfilled our other professional behavioral obligations in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code. 
We believe that the proofs we obtain are sufficient and suitable to serve as the basis for our examination judgment. 
Responsibilities of management and those responsible for monitoring 3.1.2. 
In accordance with Articles 310 to 325 TFEU and the financial regulations of the agencies, management is responsible for drawing up and presenting annual accounts on the basis of internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts. 
This includes the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures, as necessary for the preparation and presentation of an annual financial statement free of material misrepresentations intended or unintentional. 
The management of the agencies bears the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the assets underlying their annual accounts. 
When drawing up the annual accounts, the management is responsible for assessing the ability of the agencies to continue business, to state facts relating to the continuation of business, where relevant, and to apply the accounting principle of continuing business, unless management intends to either liquidate the entity or discontinue business, or does not have a realistic alternative to it. 
Responsibilities of the author for the preparation of the annual accounts and the underlying claims 3.1.5. 
Our objectives are to obtain sufficient certainty as to whether the annual accounts of the agencies are free from material misrepresentation and the underlying claims are legal and orderly, as well as to the European Parliament and the Council or other relevant discharge requirements based on our examination of the eligibility of the agencies' billing, as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying advances. 
Misrepresentations and misrepresentations may be intended or unintentional and are considered material if they could reasonably be expected, individually or collectively, to take into account the economic decisions taken by users on the basis of those accounts. 
3.1.6. 
With regard to revenue, we review the grants received by the agencies from the Commission or co-operating States and assess, where relevant, their procedures for collecting fees and other revenue. 
3.1.7. 
With regard to expenditure, we examine the payment advances after the expenditure has been settled, recorded and accepted. 
Advance payments are checked after the fund has proven their proper use and the Agency has accepted the evidence by settlement of the advance payment in the same year or even in the same year. 
3.1.8. 
As part of an inspection in accordance with the ISA and ISSAI, we exercise a duty of discretion and maintain a critical basic attitude during the entire examination. 
In addition, we identify and assess the risks of significant or unintentional misrepresentations in the annual accounts, as well as material intentional or unintentional understandings against the legal frameworks of the European Union in the underlying advances, plan, plan and conduct inspection acts in response to these risks, as well as obtain proof of verification sufficient and appropriate to serve as the basis for our assessments. 
The risk of material misrepresentation or misrepresentation of legal provisions resulting from doless actions may not be revealed as a result of erroneous acts, since doless acts may involve treacherous interaction, flogging, intended imperfections, erroneous representations or the replacement of internal controls; 
The Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 we gain an understanding of the internal control system relevant to the inspection in order to plan procedures that are appropriate under the circumstances, but not with the aim of issuing a test judgement on the effectiveness of the internal control system; we assess the adequacy of the accounting policies applied by management, as well as the reasonableness of the financial statements presented by the management and constraints; we conclude with regard to the adequacy of the management's application of the accounting principle of continuing business and on the basis of the audit evidence obtained whether there is a material uncertainty in connection with events or circumstances that may raise significant doubts as to the ability of an agency to continue its business. 
If we conclude that there is material uncertainty, we are obliged to draw attention to the information required in the annual accounts in our note from the financial statements or, if this information is inappropriate, to modify our audit opinion. 
We draw our conclusions on the basis of the audit evidence obtained by the date of our final report. 
We are responsible for the instructions, supervision and execution of the inspection. 
DE 3.1.9. 
We discuss with the management, among other things, on the planned scope and the planned timing of the inspection as well as on significant inspection findings, including any significant mismatches in the internal control system, which we recognise during our inspection. 
3.1.10. 
We determine the facts about which we have exchanged with the agencies, those which were most important for the preparation of the annual accounts of the current period and are therefore the particularly important aspects of auditing. 
We describe these facts in our Note of the Final Report, unless laws or other legal provisions exclude the disclosure of the facts to the public or we determine in very rare cases that a situation should not be communicated in our Note of the Final Report, because it is reasonable to expect that the negative consequences of such communication would exceed its benefits for the public interest. 
(24) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012. 
AGENCY FR THE COOPERATION OF ENERGIEREGULATIONS (ACER) INTRODUCTION 3.2.1. 
The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (25). 
Within the framework of the REMIT Regulation (26), the Agency and the national regulatory authorities were entrusted with additional tasks with regard to the surveillance of the European energy wholesale trading market. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (27). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 13 total staff at 31. (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 16 103 PRFILITIES 3.2.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency, consisting of the annual accounts(28) and the reports on budget implementation (29) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1. 
(26) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1). 
(27) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.acer.europa.eu. 
(28) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(29) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/34 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Allowance of the clearance of accounts 3.2.4. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.2.6. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.2.8. In the course of this year's audit of smt EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the aspect of the timely (re)validation of the accounting systems. 
In October 2017, the Agency delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer. 
Despite this drastic EUR change, the accounting system was last validated in 2011. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.2.9. 
In 2011, the Agency received an additional task in connection with the monitoring of the Energiegro§Handelsmarkt (REMIT). 
In 2017, for the first time, smily elements provided for by the REMIT monitoring framework were implemented. 
However, the site originally established in Maribor, Slovenia for data recovery in the event of a disaster was moved to Ljubljana in April 2017 to the Agency's main data centre. 
As a result, the backup data is now stored at the same location as the original data. 
As a result, there is a significant risk for the maintenance of business operations in the event of disasters, as data could be irrevocably lost. COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.2.10. On 29. In March 2017, the United Knigreich (UK) notified the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit). 
Unlike most other agencies, the Agency did not carry out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, its operating fees and its accounting. 
3.2.11. 
The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and make it possible for Brgers to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/35 3.2.12. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (30) (31). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
The agency had not implemented any of these tools by the end of 2017. 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.2.13. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a staff management audit report to the Agency(32). The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.2.14. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(30) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Art. 79 e-government. 
(31) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(32) The Court did not review the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS). 
C 434/36 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Gem§ the Headquarters Agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian Government is to establish a European School in Slovenia, but this has not been done more than four years after the conclusion of the Agreement. 
In its May 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the urgent need to crank up roles and skills and to analyse the workload of the contracting authority in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures. 
The IAS also concluded that the planning and monitoring of procurement should be significantly improved. The Agency and the IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. 
The Agency allocated 4,9 million euro and 86 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2015: 1.4 million euros and 59 % respectively. 
As in previous years, these transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation on the integration and transparency of the energy wholesale trading market and amounted to 4.7 million euros in 2016 (2015: 1.1 million euros). 
For Title II (Administrative expenditure), the Agency allocated EUR 1 million or 38 % of the committed appropriations to the following financial year (2015: 0.8 million euros or 35 % respectively. 
The transfer rate is directly linked to the conclusion or signature of procurement procedures and contracts in part towards the end of the year, leading to a shift of deliveries and/or payments to the following year. 
In 2016, 98 out of a total of 299 contracts were signed in November and December (EUR 5 976 122.47 and 40 % of the total value of the contracts closed in 2016). 
The Agency may draw up separate budget appropriations in order to better reflect the multi-dimensional nature of the activities and the inevitable distortions between signatures, deliveries and payments. Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/37 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.2.8. 
The Agency agrees with the outcome and clarifies that the Agency records all financial transactions in the financial system provided by the European Commission, updated, maintained and validated by the Commission. 
With the outsourcing of accounting from October 2017 to the Commission, the Agency will accept the validation of the accounting system provided by the Commission in 2018. 
Since the ARIS prime location and disaster management site migrated to the internal ACER data center at the beginning of April 2016 and integrated into a single site in June 2017 to optimise and revitalise performance and to cope with increasing space requirements, it is no longer possible to maintain operations. 
However, it should be noted that the current situation in which the maintenance of operations cannot be achieved has been imposed on the Agency by the appreciable reduction of its budget over the last two years. 
The Agency has repeatedly warned the Commission and the budgetary authorities about the serious consequences of the budgetary restrictions, but without reaching a result with regard to additional resources. 
The Agency will continue to see the possibility of restoring a disaster management site for ARIS, but without using such funds in 2018. 
The restoration of the disaster management site would require additional financial resources to be provided to the Agency. 
Given that the risks associated with BREXIT were considered low and limited, management carried out only an informal analysis of Brexit in 2017. 
At the beginning of 2018, the Agency published a comprehensive analysis of the impact of Brexit on organisational management, operations and financial areas by highlighting the impact and the necessary measures. 
In 2014, the Agency's Management Board adopted Decision AB 15/2014 on the Agency's language regime. 
Nevertheless, the Agency still needs to translate the vacancy notices published on the EPSO website into all official EU languages. 
Due to the very limited financial resources repeatedly identified by the budget authority, the Agency is unable to pay the replacement costs for each vacancy notice in all official EU languages for the publication of this call on the EPSO website. 
In 2017, four out of nine vacancy notices, including two public calls, were published on the EPSO website and therefore translated into all official EU languages. 
The tendering of positions in operational departments was published only on the Agency's website, as these were mainly of interest to applicants who are already active in the field and who usually follow the agency's measures on our website. 
This approach corresponds to a pragmatic weighting between contacting potential candidates and efficient use of limited resources. 
3.2.12. 
In 2018, the Agency will start e-procurement, which will be extended in 2019 to the use of e-invoicing and electronic reporting of tenders. 
3.2.13. 
Following the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) report on human resources management, the Agency has agreed with the IAS an action plan and is currently implementing the proposed improvements. 
De C 434/38 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3. 
The Bro of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (hereinafter referred to as 'adas Bro') established in Riga by Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (33). 
The table contains the most important figures for the Bro (34). 
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 4 total staff at 31. December (2) 27 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Bro. EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 4 27 PRFILITIES 3.3.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Bros, consisting of the annual accounts(35) and the reports on budget implementation (36) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.3.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Bros for the 31st December 2017 end year the bros's merging and financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 337, 18.12.2009, p. 1. 
(34) Further information about the conditions and activities of the Bros can be found on its website www.berec.europa.eu. 
(35) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. 
(36) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.3.6. 
Note 3.3.7. 
In December 2016, the Bro instructed the Centre for the Institutions of the European Union (CdT) to issue four calls for expressions of interest to draw up reserve lists, despite the fact that all the posts authorised by the budgetary authority in the establishment plan of the Bros were filled. 
The payment made for this contract in March 2017 amounted to EUR 106 432.50 (or 2.5 % of the 2017 budget). 
3.3.8. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF ACCOUNTING 3.3.9. 
In the course of this year's audit of smt EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the aspect of the timely (re)validation of the accounting systems. 
The Bro delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer in 2016. 
In 2017, it introduced a new paperless system. 
Although these events have resulted in significant EUR changes in the Bros' procedures and accounting system, the system has not been validated again since 2013. 
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.3.10. 
In December 2017, the Bro signed legal commitments and commitments of EUR 20 000 for training planned for the end of March 2018. 
The financing of 2018 activities from the budget for 2017 is at odds with the budgetary principle of honorability. 
In August 2015, the Bro launched a call for tenders for a multi-service framework agreement in the cascade system, covering an increased market volume of EUR 3 million for organising and planning events such as meetings, workshops, conferences, etc. 
In addition, the competitive procedure covered only the tenderer's administrative fees, but not the potential event costs. 
The award procedure therefore did not result in appropriate price competition, which may not lead to the most economically advantageous offer. 
3.3.12. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (37) (38). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
(37) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(38) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (e-government). 
De C 434/40 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.13. 
On 29. In March 2017, the United Knigreich (UK) notified the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit). 
Unlike most other agencies, the Bro did not carry out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, its operating discharge and its accounting. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.3.14. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/41 ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court's observations The appropriations entered in the 2014 budget for contributions from EFTA(1) national regulatory authorities with observer status in BEREC have not been paid in the absence of agreements with these countries. 
In March 2016, the Bro initiated a procurement procedure with the aim of concluding a framework contract for the children of its staff with the two international schools located in Riga. 
The EUR 400 000 framework contract signed in July 2016 is therefore based on contradictory concepts, creating legal uncertainty for the Bro and the schools. 
In addition, a framework contract was unnoticed in this specific case. 
In the course of a reclassification, a member of staff was directly assigned to step 2 instead of step 1 of a higher grade. This is against the EU Staff Regulations. 
In March 2016, the Bro concluded a contract worth EUR 60 000 for the provision of technical support and consulting services in the field of human resources. 
In 2016, the average employment duration of the Bros staff was 2.58 years. Staff turnover was high at 25 %. 
One possible reason is the correction coefficient applicable to salary costs for the host state (73 %). 
Periodic external performance evaluations are not required in the Bros Grndung Ordinance. 
The Bro, together with the Commission, should consider commissioning such an evaluation at least every five years, as most other agencies do. 
Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 European Free Trade Association. Status of the correction decision (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.c.) Existing (not under the control of the Bros) n. z. n. n. z. n. e.g. Closed (not under the control of the Bros) (1) DE 
De C 434/42 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANNEX OF BROS 3.3.7. In view of the high staff turnover in which the management saw a risk factor in carrying out its work programme, the Management Committee of the Bros des BEREC requested that reserve lists be drawn up for at least 75 % (39) of the job profiles in the Agency. 
In order to comply with the obligation to publish calls for expressions of interest (40) on the EPSO website (41), the Bro of BEREC had to have the documents translated into all the official languages of the EU. 
With reserve lists drawn up in advance, it is possible for the Agency to meet the Management Committee's requirement to keep the vacancy rate below 15 % and to send job vacancies within one month of the establishment of a recruitment need. 
In order to avoid the high costs of mandatory transfers in the future, the Bro of BEREC intends to develop standard templates for calls and short position-specific sections for replacement. 
3.3.9. 
In 2016, the Bro des BEREC referred its accounts to the European Commission. 
Therefore, the auditor of the European Commission (within DG Budget) provides services required by Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to the agencies, including the validation of local systems. 
The validation approach is currently in progress and has been endorsed by the European Commission's accounting officer in an official note with reference number Ares(2018)3149885 dated 14 June 2018. 
The services of the European Commission's accounting officer will complete the procedure and submit a report on the results in the fourth quarter of 2018. 
3.3.10. 
The Bro des BEREC had already started preparing for training in November 2017, contacting potential trainers and checking the availability of the venues. 
Therefore, it was necessary to sign the contract with the organiser in order to ensure the availability of both the trainers and project managers and the venue for the planned dates of the training. 
The contract was signed in December 2017, with the result that a corresponding budgetary commitment was entered into in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation before the signature of the contract. 
Experience shows that it is very difficult to organise training in the first quarter of a year without receiving funds from the previous year; the Bro of BEREC will therefore take place in the event of strong trainings. 
3.3.11. 
The decision on a framework contract was taken in 2015. 
Firmness is considered compatible with the Financial Regulation, as other EU institutions have closed several such contracts and still close (e.g. services provided by travel brokers or banks). 
Due to the specificity of BEREC's activity, a large part of the expenditure on BEREC events covered by the BEREC Bro, concerns the renunciation of experts, predominant by public bodies located in the EU Member States (e.g. NRAs). 
It should therefore be noted that the Contractor has no influence on this type of expenditure. 
Following the observations and the valuable exchange of views with the Court, BEREC will also take into account other types of framework distortions that were not foreseen under the 2015 legal framework when reopening the procurement procedure. 
The Bro of BEREC takes note of the Court's observations and informs the Court that it intends to include these modules by the end of 2018, taking into account the availability of the Agency's budget. 
3.3.13. 
A review of the impact on the Agency's workload could only take place after the end of relations between the EU and the United Knigreich. 
In view of the fact that the allocations and staffing of the BEREC Bros were not gendered to cover the additional expenditure and the additional workload of Croatia's accession to the EU, and given the small budget of the BEREC Bros, there was no need to expect an EUR change in the case of Brexit. 
(39) See p. 9 of document MC (16) 136, Annual and Multiannual Programming of the BEREC Office Activities 2017-2019, of 9.12.2016; https://berec.europa.eu/eng/ document_register/subject_matter/berec_office/office_annual_work_programmes/6594-annual-and-multiannual-programming-of-the-berec-office-activities-2017-2019 (40) In the opinion referred to in the opinion as an invitation to tender. 
(41) Article 11 of Decision MC/2015/3: Decision of the Management Committee of BEREC laying down general rules on the recruitment and use of temporary workers pursuant to Article 2(f) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/43 3.4. 
EUROPEAN CENTRE FR THE PROMOTION OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING (CEDEFOP) INTRODUCTION 3.4.1. 
The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (hereinafter 'adas Centre', also known as 'aCedefop'), established in Thessaloniki by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (42). 
The main task of the Centre is to promote and develop vocational training at Union level. 
3.4.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the centre (43). 
Table Main figures for the Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 18 Total staff at 31. December (2) 117 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Centre. EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 18 122 PRFILITIES 3.4.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Centre consisting of the annual accounts (44) and the reports on budget implementation (45) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the exclusiveness of the accounting procedure 3.4.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Centre for the 31st of December December 2017 end year the centre's merging and financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 39, 13.2.1975, p. 1. 
(43) Further information about the needs and activities of the Centre can be found on its website www.cedefop.europa.eu. 
(44) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. 
(45) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/44 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.4.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.4.6. 
3.4.7. 
The following observations do not call into question the Court's assessment. COMMENTS ON RECHTMEURSCURITY AND ORDERALITY OF VORGEURNGE 3.4.8. 
The administration of two recruitment procedures for management positions showed weaknesses and the procedures are considered to be non-compliant. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.4.9. The Centre publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (46) (47). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
The center had not implemented any of these tools by the end of 2017. 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.4.11. 
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented in November 2017 a review report on the Centre's web-based services (48). 
(46) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(47) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (e-government). 
(48) The court did not review these inspections. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/45 RECOMMENDATION OF THE CENTURY NOTICE FOR RETURNS AND ORDERALITY OF THE REGULATION 3.4.8. 
We take note of the Court's comment on the irregularity of the two recruitment procedures. 
Cedefop is currently carrying out an in-depth assessment of the two procedures and is considering taking remedial action in these two and recruitment procedures in general in order to remedy the weaknesses identified by the Court. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.4.9. 
In some cases, Cedefop uses the EPSO platform. 
Cedefop publishes its vacancy notices on its own website and on the agency-grabbing online platform, which is available to all EU leaders, and uses various Kanle for the promotion of vacancies, including ReferNet, SkillsNet, Management Board, as well as other opportunities such as networks of economists, etc. Cedefop publishes the vacancies for the position of Director and Deputy Director at EPSO and uses its social media candidates for leadership positions. 
Cedefop considers that the additional costs associated with the posting of vacancy notices in all EU official languages for the EPSO portal are not in any way linked to the expected advantage. 
Cedefop has taken first steps to join the electronic tendering process and the electronic submission of tenders (modules of the Ăe-Priorň platform) in autumn 2018; as a result, the time limit laid down in Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement is complied with by all public contracting authorities for the application of the electronic information exchange procedure with economic operators (http://ec europa.eu/growth/single-market/public-procurement/e-procurement_en). 
In doing so, Cedefop cooperates with the Commission's Directorate-General DIGIT, which is responsible for the involvement of the public contracting authorities. 
The first general call for tenders, using the modules of the electronic tender and the electronic submission of tenders, will be launched in October 2018. 
Subsequently, all general procedures are handled using the electronic tools. 
The time for the start of the electronic invoicing depends on whether the Cedefop management decides to either include the accrual-based invoicing (with electronic invoicing being used as a module) or to continue to use the internal Fibus platform (where a connection to the electronic invoicing platform has to be set up). 
De C 434/46 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5. 
EUROPEAN AGENCY FR AVIATION SAFETY (EASA) INTRODUCTION 3.5.1. 
The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as aEASA), established in Kln, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council(49), repealed by Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (50). 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (51). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 192 total staff at 31. (1) The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts(52) and the reports on budget implementation (53) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.5.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1. 
L 79, 19.3.2008, p. 1. 
(51) Further information on the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.easa.europa.eu. 
(52) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. 
(53) Reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/47 Legality and regularity of the advance incomes underlying the annual accounts 3.5.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.5.6. 
3.5.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE 3.5.8. 
The Court considers it necessary to reduce the independence of the accounting officer by directly reporting to the Director (administrative matters) and the Management Board (functional matters) of the Agency. COMMENTS ON THE RECHTMEURSCURITY AND ORDERALITY OF VORGEURNGE 3.5.9. 
Framework agreements are concluded with companies in order to determine the conditions applicable during the duration of the agreement for certain procurements (individual contracts). 
FR used a framework agreement with three contractors in the cascade system to award IT services of up to EUR 22 million. 
In this procedure, the contractors will be placed in a ranking (the cascade) following a competitive procedure, which must be respected for all individual arrivals. 
However, the terms of the framework agreement were not specific enough to allow fair competition and to justify the establishment of a ranking of the contractors for all strong individual contracts. 
In accordance with the rules of application of the Financial Regulation (54), the individual contracts must be awarded by means of a competitive procedure between the selected contractors. 
3.5.10. 
In accordance with the Agency's financial regulations (55), procurements must be approved by the Board of Directors, either in the Agency's annual work programme or by an ad hoc financing decision. 
An IT framework agreement with a maximum amount of EUR 15 million was tendered and signed, although the financing decision only covered an amount of EUR 5 million. 
In 2014, the Commission concluded, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including EASA), a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of IT hardware and software, maintenance and support services (IT services). 
The contractor of the framework agreement shall act as an intermediary between the Agency and companies that can provide the IT services. 
Although most of these IT services and the respective prices were set out in the framework agreement concluded under the competitive procurement procedure, the latter also includes the procurement of non-specific IT services. 
In the case of a verified payment of around EUR 300 000, the Agency had acquired IT services from the contractor without a competitive procedure. 
In 2017, payments totalling EUR 2 million were made to the contractor of the framework agreement. 
3.5.12. 
(54) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 
(55) EASA Financial Regulations, Art. 68(2) and (3). 
De C 434/48 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.13. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (56) (57). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017, the Agency had introduced the e-tender and the electronic submission of tenders for certain procedures, but not electronic invoicing. 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.5.14. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented to the Commission an audit report on EASA's preparation of the European Aviation Safety Plan (58). 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.5.15. 
(56) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(57) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (e-government). 
(58) The court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/49 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations by the Court Although industry-funded activities in 2016 led to a deficit of 7.6 million euro, but the budgetary results differ from year to year(1), and the Agency has accumulated a surplus of 52 million euro from this type of activity. 
The Agency's reasoning regulation stipulates that the fees payable by industry should be proportionate in order to deduct the Agency's costs for the associated authorisations. 
In the period 2014-2016, the agency used 9.4 million euros for its move to a new building (2016: 4.4 million euros) of their cumulated shell to finance the costs in Hhe of 12.4 million euros for renovation (and relocation). 
In turn, the Commission contributed EUR 3 million from the EU budget to this end. 
2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
De C 434/50 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.5.8. 
The Agency has raised this issue in the framework of the Forum of the Network of Agencies with a view to exploring opportunities and reaching a common position. 
The Agency will implement the agreed common approach and will in any case clearly separate the role of the accounting officer from operational functions and involve the Management Board in the renewal and evaluation cycle. 
3.5.9. 
In order to prepare this procedure, the Agency carried out a market analysis and concluded that the main IT service providers support all necessary services under this procedure. 
As a result, the Agency has concluded that a multiple framework agreement with a renewed call for competition leads to a high administrative burden, which was considered to be unmarried in comparison to the potential benefit. 
As in the case of high-value calls for tenders and as a result of the Court's remark, the Agency will tighten the reopening of competitions in order to promote competition. 
The objective of this framework agreement is to support the proof of concept and the initial phase of a new project (Data4Safety), the financing and structure of which have developed over months with a number of parties. 
The contract amounted to EUR 15 million, but ultimately the financial commitments amounted to a maximum of EUR 4 million. 
Thus, the possibility of making payments beyond that amount does not deviate. 
3.5.11. 
The Agency considers this approach to be consistent with the principle of sound budgetary management when using the existing interinstitutional framework agreement. 
In the present case, a fee of EUR 24 816.60 was considered reasonable compared to the volume of the purchase and the required effort. 
This aspect was provided for in the framework agreement and the Agency used it under the agreement. 
In 2015, the Agency's Management Board (Decision 08-2015) decided that EASA's working language is English for recruitment and selection procedures. 
This Decision was notified to the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which does not accept the Decision as an exception to its rules on the publication of vacancy notices in all languages and the Decision does not meet the needs of the Agency. 
The Network of Agencies has recently set up an online platform through which agencies can publish their vacancy notices at a wider level. 
EASA regularly publishes external job advertisements on this new platform. 
3.5.13. 
As the Court noted, last year the electronic submission tool for procurement procedures was introduced. 
FR the e-invoicing was finalised in 2017 the business specifications and the Agency's resources and prioritisation are looking for an IT-Lsung. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/51 3.6. 
EUROPEAN BANKENAUFSBEH RDE (EBA) INTRODUCTION 3.6.1. 
The European Banking Supervision Authority (hereinafter referred to as 'adie Behrde'), also known as 'aEBA'), established in London, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (59). 
3.6.2. 
The table contains the most important figures for the Behrde (60). 
Table Main figures for Behrde 2017 budget (million euro) 38 total staff at 31. (1) The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Behrde. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Behrde, consisting of the annual accounts(61) and the reports on budget implementation (62) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.6.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Behrde for the 31st December 2017 end of year Behrde's merger and financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12. 
(60) Further information about the circumstances and activities of the Behrde can be found on their website www.eba.europa.eu. 
(61) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. 
(62) Reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as hauling. 
De C 434/52 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.6.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.6.6. 
Emphasis on a situation 3.6.7. Without calling into question its ruling, the Court points out that the United Kingdom was to the European Council on 29 September. Mr 2017 notified its decision to withdraw from the European Union. 
An agreement on the details of the withdrawal is currently being negotiated. 
The Behrde, established in London, has prepared its annual accounts and the desired hauls on the basis of the information available at the time of signature (3 May 2018). 
3.6.8. 
On 20 November 2017, the General Affairs Council of the European Union agreed to relocate the seat of the Behrde to Paris, France. 
The move is planned for early 2019, and Behrde has reported in its annual accounts for the associated costs rectifications in Hhe of 6.7 million euros and 11.2 million euros for contractual payments to be made for the Bro in London in the future. 
3.6.9. 
3.6.10. 
In the case of four open procurement procedures, only one tenderer met the award criteria for quality and all other tenderers were excluded. 
This suggests that the Behrde overemphasises the quality criteria. 
In such procedures, it is not possible to identify the most economically viable lungs in which quality and price should be in a balanced manner. 
3.6.12. 
The Behrde publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and make it possible for Brgers to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies. 
3.6.13. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (63) (64). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.6.14. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on the convergence of supervisors and training measures (65). The Behrde prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. 
(63) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(64) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (e-government). 
(65) The court did not review these inspections. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/53 3.6.15. 
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory requirements (66) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (67). 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.6.16. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(66) EBA, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority. 
(67) The Court has not reviewed this evaluation work. 
C 434/54 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In order to cover the higher school fees, the Behrde staff whose children attend primary or secondary school are entitled to an educational contribution in addition to the educational allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations. 
In 2012, educational aids totalled around EUR 76 000. 
Year 2012 Status of the corrections acceptance (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) Completed 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/55 ANNEX OF THE BEH RDE 3.6.11. 
When conducting procurement procedures, EBA strives to use smuch tools at its disposal to maximise competition. 
For four of the fnf procedures, the weighting of quality and price was 60 to 40, the other 50 to 50. In our view, the low level of participation in the Court's financial assessment should be reduced to factors over which the EBA has no influence; to this end, among other things, the low interest in the tender (due to the exchange rate risk, the contract volume, the high costs for participation in the tender and the low profit margins) as well as the poor quality of the technical offers. 
The EBA publishes its vacancy notices in numerous media: EBA website, Twitter and LinkedIn, EU Training, EuroBrussels and EurActiv, ESCB-HRC network, Financial Times and EURsesque (for positions with Hherem profile). 
In February 2018, the EBA published ten vacancy notices on the EPSO website in all EU official languages. 
The EBA considers that by using the Kanle mentioned above, it maintains full transparency for the publication of vacancy notices and that it reaches the target audience among EU leaders. 
The EBA will introduce the e-submission system in 2019 and conduct training in the first half of the year and test the updates to the implemented system. 
De C 434/56 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7. 
EUROPEAN CHEMICALS AGENCY (ECHA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1. 
The European Chemicals Agency (hereinafter 'adie Agentur', also known as aECHA), established in Helsinki by Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (68). 
Its main task is to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment and to ensure the free movement of substances in the internal market while improving competitiveness and innovation. 
The Agency also advocates the development of alternative assessment methods for hazards associated with substances. 
3.7.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (69). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 112 total staff at 31. December (2) 563 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 2. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 110 578 PRFILITIES 3.7.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts(70) and the reports on budget implementation (71) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.7.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1. 
(69) Further information on the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.echa.europa.eu. 
(70) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. 
(71) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/57 Highlighting a situation 3.7.5. 
Without calling into question its assessment, as set out in point 3.7.4, we would like to emphasise that the Agency is partly self-financed and that it is paid a fee from any company requesting the registration of chemicals as provided for in the REACH Regulation (72). 
The applicable fees are based on the size of the enterprises (micro, small, medium and large enterprises) and the quantity of chemicals registered (various quantity thresholds). 
3.7.6. 
As provided for in the Implementing Regulation (73), the Agency's calculation and invoicing shall be carried out on the basis of information provided by undertakings at the time of the application. 
Since the first registrations in 2009, around 30 % of companies have stated that they are micro, small or medium-sized enterprises. 
The Agency made considerable efforts to implement a system for ex-post inspections, which checks the information provided by these applicants on the company's credentials. 
For example, the Agency was able to establish that on the basis of the previously completed reviews, around 55 % of the above mentioned companies, which, according to their own information, were micro, small or medium-sized enterprises (16 % of all enterprises) had misrepresented their size, resulting in lower fees. 
In order to remedy the situation, the Agency has invoiced approximately 16.4 million Euros as a result of ex-post reviews over the years for correction purposes. 
However, the checks are significant in the rectangle, and the remaining amount of the necessary corrections was not known at the end of 2017 (74). 
This finding shows the constraints of a system which, in too high terms, is based on self-crowding of the applicants. 
The REACH Regulation stipulates that the verification of the quantities declared by the companies is the responsibility of the Member State authorities responsible for enforcement. 
The Agency is therefore not involved in the review of this second element for the calculation of the rebate. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.7.8. 
According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st In all material respects, payments underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 are legal and regular in all respects. 
3.7.9. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.7.10. 
The Agency's ex-post reviews have shown that for more than half of the companies registered and reported to be micro-enterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises, the information on the size was incorrect (see the paragraph highlighting a situation in point 3.7.5). 
This can be explained in part by the complex provisions of the Commission on the determination of company sizes (75) and partly by the financial incentive to indicate a too small size, since the registration fees for larger companies are far higher. 
Given that the original registration fees are collected on the basis of the company's stated data, false information may have a significant negative impact on the Agency's revenue if they are not detected. 
Although the Agency reviews the specified size for smaller companies in the context of ex-post inspections, the reviews have been completed significantly at the rectification level and only until 2012 (for the years with the largest quantities of chemicals registered). 
(72) Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006. 
(73) Article 13 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 340/2008 on the fees and charges payable to the European Chemicals Agency pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Control of Chemicals (REACH) 
(74) Ex-post inspections for registrations were completed by the end of 2017, but are still underway for the following years. 
(75) Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36). 
De C 434/58 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.11. 
If errors are detected, the Agency shall charge the difference between the original fee paid and the final fee, as well as an administrative fee. 
On 31. In December 2017, the amount to be recovered amounted to EUR 4.7 million, of which EUR 3.2 million was related to administrative charges. 
However, the Agency appears to encounter difficulties in recovering administrative charges. 
In its 2017 annual accounts, the Agency recorded a receivable receivable position of EUR 2.8 million (i.e. EUR 600 000 more than at the end of 2016). 
3.7.12. 
The inspection of the quantities declared by the undertakings is the responsibility of the Member State authorities responsible for enforcement; the Agency has no enforcement powers (see paragraph highlighting a situation in point 3.7.5). 
The measures taken by the enforcement authorities of the Member States shall be coordinated by the Forum for the exchange of information on enforcement. 
On 6. In December 2017, the Forum adopted new strategies and minimum criteria for the enforcement of chemical regulations (astrategies and minimum criteria for enforcement of chemical regulations), which provide a framework for the development of national enforcement strategies. 
The Agency's ability to fulfil its mission depends on the effectiveness of the practical implementation of this framework by the national authorities. 
In its 2017 general report, the Agency states that around two thirds of companies did not update the registered information on the quantities of chemicals they handle. 
This implies the effective implementation of the REACH Regulation and, in addition, the accuracy of the calculation of the rebate. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.7.13. The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
OTHER COMMENTS 3.7.14. 
The Agency's revenue from fees is linked to the registration deadlines for chemicals in the EU set out in the REACH Regulation (2010, 2013 and 2018). 
The Agency therefore does not charge any regular fees and, with a mismatch between relatively stable expenditure and staggering, less foreseeable revenue, has to pluck, which makes budget planning more difficult. 
In dealing with this situation, the Agency shall be assisted by a grant which it receives from the Commission. 
As the third and final registration period for chemicals under the REACH Regulation is exhausted in 2018, the revenue from fees and charges is expected to decrease from 2019 onwards and that the Agency will be subtracted from the EU budget in financing its operations. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.7.15. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/59 Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 State of revision (completed/in progress/e.g.) In progress (1) In progress pending ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court's observations on procedures related to a new specific activity of the Agency, the implementation of the Regulation on biocidal products, were in principle covered by requests for the assessment of the antrge for the registration of these products. 
However, the fees collected in 2014 covered only 17 % of this expenditure, so that the bulk was actually financed by the Union (6,3 million euro) and EFTA countries (0.2 million euro) to the Agency's budget. With 10.1 million euros or 39 % (2015: 7.3 million euro and 32 % respectively, the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year remained high for Title III (Operational Expenditure). For Title IV (Operational Expenditure) it fell at 1.3 million euro and 68 % (2015: 1.5 million euros, or 74 %, are even higher. 
Such a high transfer rate is at odds with the budgetary principle of honor. The Agency may take into account the use of separate budgetary resources in order to better reflect the multi-year nature of the activities and the inevitable distortions between signatures, deliveries and payments. 
In accordance with the Biocidal Products Regulation, ECHA contributes to the functioning of the market for biocides and biocidal products. 
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the structure and practical implementation of ECHA's internal control system with regard to the Agency's processes and activities under the Biocidal Products Regulation is effective and efficient. 
Although no serious mismatches have been identified, the IAS still sees a need for improvement. 
Unlike most other agencies, periodic external evaluations of their activities, which are essential for performance evaluation, are not explicitly required in the ECHA's Grndung Regulation. 
(1) In 2017, the Agency received fees and fees in the field of biocides of EUR 8.1 million (2016: EUR 7.6 million) covering 65 % of the expenditure on biocides (2015: 62 % and 2016: 88 %. 
This part was financed by contributions to the Agency's budget provided by the Union (6,3 million euro) and EFTA countries (0.2 million euro). 
De C 434/60 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.7.10. 
The relevant legislation (REACH Ordinance (EC) 340/2008) does not provide that the Agency should carry out an ex-post review of the size of all SME registrants. 
The Agency's Board of Directors approved a concept whereby SME registrants with the largest financial impact (i.e. with the majority of registrations within the larger quantity range) are given priority. 
The Agency is currently reviewing the company credentials of SME registrants who submitted their dossiers by 2015. In 2017, the Agency also focused its attention on SME registrants from the United Knigreich in order to review their company credentials prior to the withdrawal of the United Knigreich from the European Union. 
In the future, we are increasingly carrying out the agency's assessment of the size of SMEs on the basis of the cost-benefit principle. 
3.7.11. 
The REACH Remuneration Regulation (EC) No 340/2008 does not provide the Agency with tools necessary for the enforcement of the collection of administrative charges. 
The Agency proactively reminds debtors of their payment obligation. If this does not succeed, it entrusts local law firms to claim the outstanding fees and fees directly in the Member States. 
The law firms have so far contacted 74 % of the companies that are required to pay administrative fees. The result of this initiative will then be subject to a cost-benefit analysis to identify the next steps. 
Member States have the primary responsibility for enforcing the REACH and CLP Regulations, in particular the obligation to register chemicals. 
The Agency's ability to fulfil its mission and to obtain revenue from the fees to an appropriate extent depends on the effectiveness of the practical implementation of enforcement strategies by the national authorities. 
Discussions with the Commission will be conducted in order to address this problem. 
3.7.13. 
The Agency takes note of the comments submitted. This is a horizontal matter that concerns a number of agencies. 
The Agency publishes vacancy notices like other agencies on its own website, on social media and on the website of the EU Agencies Network (EUAN) (https://euagencies.eu/). 
The Agency recommends that the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) refer to the EUAN website in order to increase transparency and publicity and to allow Brgers to view vacancy notices. 
3.7.14. 
The preliminary remark is correct. 
The Agency shall be financed by a combination of revenue through fees and fees and from a compensatory grant from the European Union. 
The Agency has submitted to the Commission a number of alternative financing proposals, including the introduction of regular fees, as with some other EU agencies. 
The Agency points out that according to its Communication on the review of the REACH Regulation of 5. Mr 2018 (COM(2018) 116 final) will explore all possible options to ensure sustainable financing of the Agency in the future. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/61 3.8. 
EUROPEAN SUPERVISORY BOARD RDE FR INSURANCE AND OCCUPATIONAL PENSIONS (EIOPA) INTRODUCTION 3.8.1. 
The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (hereinafter referred to as "adie Behrde" (also known as "aEIOPA"), established in Frankfurt, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (76). 
The task of the Behrde is to contribute to the establishment of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices, to contribute to the cohesive application of the binding Union acts, to encourage and facilitate the delegation of tasks and to facilitate the delegation of tasks and to facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of market developments in their field of competence, and to encourage the protection of policyholders, pensioners and beneficiaries. 
3.8.2. 
The table contains the most important figures for the Behrde (77). 
Table Main figures for Behrde 2017 budget (million euro) 24 total staff at 31. 1 December (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Behrde. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 21 139 PRFILITIES 3.8.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Behrde, consisting of the annual accounts(78) and the reports on budget implementation (79) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.8.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Behrde for the 31st December 2017 end of year Behrde's merger and financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 48. 
(77) Further information about the circumstances and activities of the Behrde can be found on their website www.eiopa.europa.eu. 
(78) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. 
(79) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/62 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.8.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.8.6. 
Note 3.8.7. Without calling into question its ruling, the Court points out that the United Kingdom was to the European Council on 29 September. Mr 2017 notified its decision to withdraw from the European Union. 
The budget of EIOPA is 40 % financed by the European Union and 60 % from direct contributions from the EU Member States. 
Possibly, as a result of the decision of the United Knigreich to leave the EU, the Behrde's revenue will decrease significantly. 
3.8.8. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.8.9. 
At the Behrde, the head of the Corporate Support department is the head of the accounting officer. 
The Behrde publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and make it possible for Brgers to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies. RESULTS OF EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS 3.8.11. 
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (80) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (81). 
(80) EIOPA, the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority. 
(81) The Court has not reviewed this evaluation work. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/63 ANNEX OF THE BEH RDE 3.8.9. 
The accounting officer's reporting was addressed to the Head of Corporate Support and the Board of Directors until April 2018. 
In the light of the final assessment of the annual performance of the accounting officer by the Board of Directors, no conflict with the hierarchical and functional inconsistency of the accounting officer was assumed. 
A EUR change took place in May 2018 to strengthen the position of the accounting officer with the following new reporting lines: hierarchical reporting to the Executive Director and functional reporting to the Management Board. 
3.8.10. 
In order to be able to publish vacancy notices on the EPSO website, they must be translated into all 24 official EU languages. 
As this has an appreciable impact on the budget, EIOPA decided to use other media outlets where most EU agencies publish their vacancy notices. 
EIOPA also uses the Inter-Agency Job Advertisement Board (Inter-Agency Job Advertisement Board), a joint platform for job advertisements developed by the Agencies Network, to which all Brgers have access. 
In addition, EIOPA conducts a joint procurement process for the announcement of recruitment procedures, which provides greater visibility and reaches a wider audience in the EU. 
De C 434/64 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9. 
EUROPEAN INSTITUTE OF INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY (EIT) INTRODUCTION 3.9.1. 
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (hereinafter adas Institute), also established in Budapest, was established by Regulation (EC) No 294/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (82). 
The aim of the Institute is to contribute to sustainable economic growth in Europe and to increase competitiveness by stepping up the innovation capacitance of the Member States and the European Union. 
The Institute is seeking financial support for an increasing number of Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) that interconnect higher education, research and business, thereby fostering innovation and entrepreneurship. 
The KICs coordinate the activities of hundreds of partners. 
3.9.2. 
The table contains the most important figures for the Institute (83). 
Table Main figures for the Institute 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 303 total actual staff at 31. December (2) 60 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 2. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
Source: Data provided by the Institute. EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 283 59 PRFILITIES 3.9.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the institution consisting of the annual accounts(84) and the reports on budget implementation (85) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.9.4. 
According to our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts for the 31st December 2017 end year the institution's merging and financial position as at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 97, 9.4.2008, p. 1. 
(83) Further information about the needs and activities of the Institute can be found on its website https://eit.europa.eu/. 
(84) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. 
(85) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/65 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.9.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.9.6. 
Other comments 3.9.7. 
In December 2016, shortly before the end of the Frder period (1 January 2016-31. The EIT signed amendments to the Specific Grant Agreements with KICs EIT Digital, InnoEnergy, Health and RawMaterials. 
The EUR amendment to the Specific Grant Agreement with Climate KIC was signed even in January 2017, after the end of the Frder Period. 
The increase in the individual reimbursements agreed in these EUR changes allowed KICs to receive 15 million euros in financial assistance from the EIT (6.0 million euro in addition to Climate KICs, 5.6 million euros for EIT Health, EUR 2.2 million for KIC InnoEnergy and 1.2 million euros for EIT RawMaterials). 
This approach is at odds with the intention of encouraging the KICs to develop sources of funding and to encourage them to gradually reduce their financial adequacy from the EIT. 
It could also affect fair competition between the KICs, as the co-financing of expenditure also plays a role in the annual grant decisions. 
3.9.8. 
Also due to changes in the business of KIC InnoEnergy and EIT Digital, a number of activities not foreseen in the original business units were added to the total value of around 3.3 million euros and 0.6 million euros respectively. 
In the case of KIC InnoEnergy, the Court considers that it is a substantial change in the original business plan on the basis of which the maximum amount of the grant was applied. 
Since the Hhe of the grants awarded to the individual KICs is the result of a performance-based assessment procedure to which its originally proposed operations will be subjected, substantial changes to these funds call into question the grant decisions and equal treatment of the KICs and thus constitute a breach of Article 180(4) of the Rules of Application for the Financial Regulation. 
3.9.9. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.9.10. 
In 2017, the institution introduced a paperless payment system. 
Although this has led to changes in its procedures and accounting system, the accounting system has not been revalidated since 2012. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.9.11. 
In order to further strengthen the internal control system for grants to KICs, the EIT carried out centralised ex ante controls for those KIC partners whose cost statements exceeded EUR 325 000. 
The checks were carried out by two business inspection companies on behalf of the EIT (86) and carried out on certified cost statements of the KIC partners. 
The results of the ex-post controls carried out by another economic survey company mandated by the EIT confirm that the new approach to the certified cost statements is effective and important, as most of the material errors found concerned cost statements that had not been subject to these ex ante controls. 
(86) In previous years, certification was carried out by a large number of private companies on behalf of each KIC partner whose submitted cost statements exceeded the threshold of EUR 325 000 (reimbursement of actual costs and unit costs). 
De C 434/66 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.12. 
The business continuity plan and the EIT disaster recovery plan were adopted in 2013 and are outdated. 
For example, more than half of the members of the crisis management team did not work for the EIT in 2017. 
An updated version of the Plne has been working for two years, but it has not yet been adopted. 
As in previous years, the KICs did not take full advantage of the EIT-funded grants. 
The accepted total cost of the KIC added-value activities of the fnf KICs, which were functional before 2016 (KICs of the first and second wave taken together), were adopted by 15 % compared to the specific grant agreements concluded at the beginning of 2016 (87). 
The fact that the funds were not used was mainly due to the incomplete implementation of the business operations due partly to the approval of the grant agreements and the multi-annual nature of the KIC activities, as well as the in-house financing ratio of the administrative costs incurred by some KICs than planned. 
Part of this appropriation has been used to increase the early costs related to KIC added-value activity originally defined (see paragraph 3.9.7). 
In particular, the KICs of the second wave (EIT Health and RawMaterials) had to pluck with distortions when starting their activities. 
For the KICs of the first wave, according to the evaluation reports of the EIT, the performance of Climate KICs in particular was insufficient. 
3.9.14. 
The EIT underwent a performance assessment for the implementation of the business and then calculated some corrections. 
However, these corrections had no financial impact on any of the KICs. 
In line with the Horizon 2020 methodology for grant calculation, the EIT applies only those of the two in the case of corrections that become necessary due to financial controls and performance assessments. 
While this methodology is appropriate for individual Horizon 2020 projects, it is less suitable for the grants awarded to the KICs, which finance a wide range of different activities. 
It is questionable whether it is justified to offset corrections to be made on the basis of performance, for example in the case of educational activities, against corrections to be made on the basis of financial controls, which may, for example, affect innovation projects. 
3.9.15. 
In 2017, all KICs adopted strategies for sustainable financing in line with the EIT Guidelines, which is an important step towards a greater impact of the KICs in the future. 
Nevertheless, the KICs of the first wave continued to generate little revenue (between 2 % and 6 % of the cost of KIC value-added activities) and little progress was recorded in 2017. 
Co-financing by the KIC partners is also still low (and lower than those provided for in the original specific grant agreements): The KIC added-value activities are still financed from 62 % to 90 % by EIT grants, depending on the KIC. 
3.9.16. 
The EIT publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on DG Human Resources and Security's website, but usually not on the European Personnel Selection Office's website (EPSO). 
3.9.17. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (88). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. 
It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic invitation to tender in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
OTHER COMMENTS 3.9.18. 
The current interim director of the EIT took office in July 2014. 
A selection procedure for the appointment of a new director was launched in 2016, but was unsuccessful. 
No new recruitment procedure has been initiated since then. 
To fill this post for such a long period ad interim is contrary to the Staff Regulations, according to which a post may be filled for at least one year. 
3.9.19. 
In accordance with Article 5(1) of the Statutes of the EIT a, the staff of the EIT [...] shall be recruited directly by the EIT in the context of fixed-term work and shall apply to the staff of the EIT the conditions of employment applicable to other servants of the European Union. 
Consequently, the EIT may only offer temporary employment to its temporary staff with a maximum duration of five years, which can be applied once by fnf years. 
Those employees who started their activity at the EIT shortly after its establishment in 2009 will reach the maximum contract term of ten years in 2020, which in the coming years could lead to the continuance of measures and administration. 
(87) And still 6 % lower than in the gendered specific grant agreements concluded in December 2016 and January 2017. 
(88) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
De 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/67 REPORTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL Audit Service AND EXTERNAL Evaluation Reports 3.9.20. 
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) carried out the monitoring of grant agreements in 2017 (89). 
The Institute prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. 
3.9.21. 
In 2016-2017, the EIT underwent an interim evaluation for the period 2011-2015 on behalf of the Commission (90). 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.9.22. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(89) The court did not review these inspections. 
(90) The Court has not reviewed this evaluation work. 
C 434/68 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Year 2012 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) Completed (1) In progress (2) Closed (3) Completed In progress ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court's observations No specific thresholds for certain categories of costs (staff costs, subcontracting, legal services, etc.) were set in the grant agreements. 
The Institute estimated its budgetary needs for 2014 by 13.1 million euro and 5.6 % (2013: 3.4 million euros or 2.5 % respectively, so that only 220 million euros of the available EUR 233,1 million were committed. 
The low implementation rate is mainly due to unused funds for grants (11.4 million euro) to finance KICs' activities. 
In accordance with the provisions of the KICs on the basis of which the grant agreements were concluded, the funds available to the Institute for 2014 did not have to be used in full. 
The unused appropriations will be entered in the budget for 2015-2017 in accordance with the Institute's Financial Regulation. 
Although the KICs must devise strategies for sustainable financing, they are still fully dependent on funding from the institute and the KIC partners to this day, in the fifth year of its existence. 
Since its establishment in 2009, the Institute has had to vaccinate with a high staff turnover and instability at the management level. 
Two of the three Heads of Unit have been vacant since 2013. 
One of these has been phased out ad-temporarily since 2013, which is contrary to the Staff Regulations, which provides for a maximum of one year. 
The other currently holds the COO, which is also interim director and thus performs three functions simultaneously. 
In our Special Report No 4/2016, the Court concluded that the condition that the EIT contribution to the KICs should not exceed 25 % does not offer a significant advantage and its lifting would significantly reduce the burden of operational and financial reporting on KIC partners (4). 
However, these certificates are of very different quality, so that the security derivable from it is limited and the institute must carry out additional checks. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/69 DE Comments of the Court of Auditors of the EIT Regulation on the tasks of the Institute for the mobilisation of funds from public and private sources and [the] use of resources in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. 
In particular, the Institute aims to raise a significant and growing share of its budget from private finance and revenue generated through its own activities. 
Despite this provision, which clearly relates to the budget of the EIT, the contribution from Horizon 2020 budget accounted for 99 % of its 2015 budget. 
Although the institution may use unused appropriations (i.e. uncommitted appropriations during the year or released at the end of the year) in the budget for the following three years, it has not adjusted its procedures in time to be able to estimate 26.6 million euro available under the 2014 grant agreements in the 2015-2017 budget allocations. 
These funds were available because the KICs used less funds than expected. 
According to the Commission's original objective, the institution should acquire its financial autonomy in 2010. 
However, in June 2011, the Institute received only part of its financial autonomy, as grants and award procedures worth more than EUR 60 000 are still subject to prior approval by the Directorate-General for Education and Culture. 
The Institute is supporting the EIT Digital Master School programme, in which 16 European universities participate. 
The model for reimbursing university costs is based on a combination of a lump sum of EUR 8 000 per student (in accordance with the provisions of the Erasmus Mundus programme) plus the actual costs including indirect costs calculated on a flat-rate basis. 
On this basis, the universities received an average of EUR 15 000 per student in 2015 (including the lump sum). 
However, the model has never been frightened and it is not possible to distinguish which activities fall under the lump sum amount and which are covered by the actual costs. 
The institution should switch to a clear and flawed model for the recovery of costs, based on a single methodology, such as a uniform flat-rate amount based on proof of costs. 
Year 2015 State of the revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
C 434/70 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Comments of the Court Against the principle of sound financial management were violated when another KIC partner commissioned public relations services with daily strands between EUR 800 and EUR 3 250 per person through a procurement procedure (7). 
FR the organisation of conferences scheduled for 2015 and 2016 on innovation, the Institute used a framework contract of the Commission. 
The prices agreed for these services ranged from EUR 800 per day for a junior consultant and EUR 2 250 per day for a senior consultant (which was almost four times the rate set in the framework contract for a manager). 
The services procured at these prices exceed EUR 100 000 per conference. 
We found weaknesses in the ex-post reviews of the procurement procedures carried out by the legal entities of the KICs. 
At least for one of the KICs' legal entities, the selection of procurement procedures to be reviewed was not representative of the population. 
In addition, the Court reached a different conclusion in two procurement procedures with regard to their legality and regularity. 
In these cases, the Institute had accepted the direct or extended extensions of the branches. 
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded in its audit report aGrant Management: Transition to Horizon 2020? (Grant Management: On Horizon 2020) to conclude that the Institute has successfully adapted its procedures to the rules applicable to Horizon 2020, in particular the rules on participation, and that the controls carried out by the institution during the start-up phase have generally proved to be an effective means of supporting new KICs. 
The IAS also concluded that measures must be taken urgently in order to ensure the exclusive application of the Horizon 2020 legal framework and to further improve the start-up phase of new KICs. The Institute and the IAS agreed on a plan for correction measures. 
With 0.4 million euros or 40 % (2015: 0.4 million euro and 44 % respectively, the rate of committed appropriations for Title II for the following financial year was high. 
These transfers concern mainly year-to-year IT services and meeting expenses for which no invoices have yet to be received. 
2015 2015 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.) n. e.g. 2016 Completed 2016 In progress 2016 n.e.c. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/71 DE Court's observations The grants for the calendar year 2015 were only awarded in April 2015 and the grant agreements were signed in June and July 2015. 
FR the 2016 calendar year was awarded and the grant agreements were signed in April 2016. 
Despite an improvement in 2016, these distortions lead to uncertainty in the decision-making of grants and the signing of grant agreements and reduce the willingness of the partners to retain resources at the beginning of the year and to take action. 
The most recent calls for new KICs, whose thematic areas were defined in the EIT's Strategic Innovation Agenda for the period 2014-2020, had little competition. 
Only seven proposals were submitted for the call for two KICs (Health and RawMaterials) launched in 2014. 
As a result of the call for two additional KICs (Food and Manufacturing), published in 2016, three proposals were received and the only proposal for KIC Manufacturing (added value in manufacturing) was not selected from Qualittsgrnden. 
The director's post has been occupied as of August 2014 and another management post since February 2013 on an interim basis. 
This is not only against the Statute, according to which the previous occupation may not last more than one year, the frequent changes and long-term interims are also unsettling the stakeholders and affect the strategic continuity. The Institute is an important player in the implementation of the Horizon 2020 programme with a budget of EUR 2.4 billion over the period 2014-2020. 
The Commission has set up a single Horizon 2020 Support Centre to provide for Kohrenz between programme implementing bodies in areas such as legal services, IT tools, grant management, dissemination and use of research results, etc. 
However, unlike bodies such as the Commission's executive agencies and public-private partnerships, the Institute does not have direct access to the Support Body, but must in any case have the Commission's Directorate-General approved. 
This requirement determines the efficiency of the Institute's activities. 
Year 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
C 434/72 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Court's observations The coordination and representation of the KICs is carried out by the legal entities of the KICs, which are almost entirely financed by the Institute. 
In its inspection, the Court paid particular attention to the procurement procedures carried out by these bodies, which we consider to be a high-risk area. 
In accordance with the 2015 grant agreements, the legal entities of the KIC and/or the KIC partners must ensure that the best price-performance marriage is achieved in procurement or that the criterion of the lowest price is applied where appropriate. 
For all amounts exceeding EUR 60 000, the legal entities of the KICs and/or the KIC partners must, according to the grant agreements, invite at least three economic operators to submit tenders and document the procurement procedure to demonstrate its transparency. 
We examined a sample of procurement procedures worth around 7 million euro, carried out by the legal entities of the KICs and fully financed by the EIT. 
The inspection resulted in significant amounts, such as direct award of contracts, lack of essential elements in tenders, significant extensions of the initial increases in duration and/or scope, increases without limiting the duration and/or size or quality/price weights that led to price competition. 
The Institute also identified the Mngels in the procurement procedures of a legal entity of the KICs and set up an action plan to improve the procurement procedures of all KICs' legal entities. 
Despite the significant increase in the budget from EUR 309 million (2008-2013) to 2.4 billion euro (2014-2020) and although there have been six and no more than three KICs since the end of 2016, the number of posts granted to the institution has hardly changed (see Table 2). 
As the Court noted in its Special Report No 4/2016 (9), there is a risk that the Institute will not have capazitt in order to cover the workload incurred. 
The interim director of the institution has pointed out this risk in the Institute's annual activity report for 2015. 
2016 In progress (not under the control of the Institute) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (8) (9) Specifically, the administrative costs have been covered in the grant agreements since 2016. 
The need for budget appropriations for 2016 was by 13.1 million euro or 5.0 % (2015: EUR 25 million or 9.4 %) is too high, which means that only EUR 249,9 million of the available 263 million euro was committed. 
The unused appropriations can be entered in the 2017-2019 budget. 
On average, the EIT financed 90 % of the financial costs reported by the KICs under the 2015 grant agreements. 
The funds collected by the KICs from various sources accounted for 2.5 % of the appropriations requested by the EIT. 
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology needs to change its implementation mechanisms and some conceptual elements in order to achieve the expected impact. 
The EIT continues to interpret the EIT Regulation differently, as set out in its reply to the 2015 report. 
In 2016, universities received an average of EUR 17 000 per year per student on the basis of the model described, based on a combination of actual costs and lump sum payments. The model was set at the end of 2016 and will be applied from 2017. 
In 2016 (2015 grant extension), the EIT reimbursed EUR 410 000 for this contract. 
The leadership position was filled in February 2018. 
In June 2018, the Commission launched the recruitment procedure for the Director's post. 
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology needs to change its implementation mechanisms and some conceptual elements in order to achieve the expected impact. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/73 ANNEX OF THE INSTITUTE 3.9.7. 
The EIT would like to clarify that the specific grant agreements in accordance with the provisions of the KIC Framework Partnership Agreements of the EIT may be submitted at any time during the period of funding. 
The KICs' EUR amendment was subject to a technical and financial assessment by the EIT and the prior approval by the European Commission. 
Subsequently, the EUR changes were signed in December 2016. 
In the case of EIT Climate-KIC, the KIC received the approval of the EUR amendment application on 21. December 2016 (i.e. within the Frder period) formally communicated. 
As regards the establishment of the individual reimbursements, the EIT points out that no additional grant amount was paid to the KICs as a result of the EUR changes to the Specific Grant Agreements in 2016. 
The total amount of the final grant (EUR 241.8 million) was significantly lower than the initial amount (EUR 274.9 million). 
As regards the call for KICs to develop their own sources of funding and to become financially viable, please refer to our reply to section 3.9.15. 
In the context of the assessment of the EUR change, the EIT, after consulting the European Commission, concluded that the adjustment of the individual reimbursement rates is in line with the applicable legal basis and does not affect the equal treatment of KICs. 
The possibility to adjust the individual refunds was open to all KICs on equal terms. 
With regard to the second remark, the EIT considers that the EUR amendments corresponded to Article 180(4) of the Rules of Application for the Financial Regulation, since they did not call into question the decision to award grants and did not conflict with equal treatment of applicants. 
It should be borne in mind that there is no provision on a materiality threshold showing which EUR change in a measure is to be regarded as material in assessing whether the EUR change is relevant for obtaining the grant. 
Whether the inclusion of new activities corresponds to that provision must be determined on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the relevance and impact of the activities for the entire KIC business plan. 
The EIT carried out the assessment prior to the approval of the EUR change and concluded that the EUR changes did not call into question the decision to obtain grants. 
Since each KIC had the opportunity to include new cheerful activities in its gendered business on equal terms, KIC's equal treatment was also required. 
Finally, the EIT points out that in the case of EIT InnoEnergy, the only activity in question represented only 3.9 % of the gendered budget estimates of the KIC business plan. 
For EIT Digital, this share was 0.6 %. 
3.9.10. 
3.9.12. 
The updated versions of the contingency plan and the recommissioning plan following a system breakdown are adopted by the EIT in 2018. 
3.9.13. 
The 2016 Specific Grant Agreements with EIT Health and EIT RawMaterials were signed as planned, as the Framework Partnership Agreements had to be signed first. 
The specific grant agreements for 2017 and 2018 were systematically signed in February, allowing KICs to start their activities in advance in the respective year. 
Due to their dynamic and fast-moving nature, innovative measures cannot be planned linearly. 
Some innovation projects or projects do not meet expectations of their potential and must be discontinued during the implementation of grant agreements. Berdies are some of the operational activities of the KIC, such as master's and doctoral studies or long-term research and innovation projects, designed from home to several years. 
To address this issue, the EIT intends to enter into multi-annual grant agreements with KICs after 2020, provided that corresponding commitment appropriations are allocated in multi-instalments in the EIT budget. 
In fact, the EIT has complied with the methodology required by the legal basis for the calculation of grants without limitation and will continue to comply with the legislation in force in the future. 
The financial strength of KIC is a unique ambition of the EIT-KIC model and one of the most difficult aspects of the EIT mission. 
In the meantime, some of the innovation communities can already have an appreciable co-financing with which they dispute their activities and generate considerable revenue compared to their budget. 
For example, EIT Digital received co-financing of 26 % (22 million euros) to cover the costs of the KIC value-added activities in 2016. In addition, the partner organisations carried out and paid for KIC activities of more than 200 million euros in Hhe. 
Another example is EIT Health: In its first year of operation, KIC generated a respectable amount of EUR 6 million in revenue compared to the total financing it had received from the EIT (approximately EUR 19 million). 
De C 434/74 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.17. 
Following the conclusion of the necessary agreements with the European Commission, the EIT intends to introduce the tools for electronic tendering and electronic submission of tenders. 
3.9.18. 
On 1 June 2018, the European Commission announced the EIT Director's post (91). 
The first staff came to the EIT in 2010 and thus reached the maximum employment period of 10 years in 2020. 
In doing so, the EIT is aware of the risks referred to in the EIT's Annual Activity Report for 2017. 
By letter of 14 May 2018, the EIT requested the legal opinion of the European Commission. 
C 187 A, 1.6.2018, p. 6. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/75 3.10. 
EUROPEAN AGENCY FR MARITIME SAFETY (EMSA) INTRODUCTION 3.10.1. 
The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also established in Lisbon, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council (92). 
The tasks of the Agency shall include the performance of a high level of safety in maritime transport, the supply of pollution from ships, the technical support of the Member States and the Commission, as well as the monitoring of the application of Union rules and the assessment of their effectiveness. 
3.10.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (93). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 79 total staff at 31. December (2) 250 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 2. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 71 246 PRFILITIES 3.10.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts(94) and the reports on budget implementation (95) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.10.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1. 
(93) Further information on the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.emsa.europa.eu. 
(94) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. 
(95) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/76 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.10.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.10.6. 
3.10.7. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.10.8. 
In 2014, the Commission concluded, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of software licenses, maintenance and support services. 
The contractor of the framework agreement shall act as an intermediary between the Agency and companies that can meet the needs of the Agency. 
The contractor of the framework agreement receives these intermediate services from two to nine percent on supplier prices. In 2017, payments totalling EUR 1.7 million were made to the contractor of the framework agreement. 
The Agency did not systematically compare the calculated prices and discounts with the tenders of the companies and did not systematically review the invoices issued to the contractor of the framework agreement. COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.10.9. The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
3.10.10. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (96) (97). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. 
It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.10.11. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented audit reports on project-funded measures and human resources management(98). 
3.10.12. 
An external evaluation of the Agency's performance during the period 2011-2016 was carried out on behalf of the Commission in 2017 (99). 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.10.13. 
(96) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(97) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (e-government). 
(98) The court did not review these inspections. 
(99) The Court has not reviewed this evaluation work. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/77 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In 2014, the Agency concluded a six-year framework contract worth 3.5 million euros for the purchase of IT goods and services. 
The Agency underscored the needs and expected contract value, resulting in 80 % of the contract being phased out at the end of 2016. 
A new procurement procedure will have to be launched four years earlier than expected, resulting in additional administrative costs. 
In 2016, the Agency completed seven framework contracts for the acquisition of systems for the treatment of pollution. 
Each framework contract (one lot each in the procurement procedure) related to a specific structure. 
The procurement procedure was initiated with the assumption that the total value of the seven framework conversions would amount to EUR 7 million. 
However, this assumption underscores the Agency's needs and has signed seven envelopes for an amount of 7 million euros each, resulting in a total value of 49 million euros for the contracts. 
2016 2016 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.c.) n.e.c. e.g. 
De C 434/78 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.10.8. 
The Agency will remind the relevant project representatives to carry out the necessary checks on the prices charged by the provider and/or to check whether the correct slips are applied. 
In this framework contract, EMSA will also ask the lead public contracting authority to regularly ask the contractor to always substantiate the market price/surcharge when responding to bid requirements. 
3.10.9. 
Following a court order, EPSO decided that only vacancy notices in EU smelting official languages or in the languages specified in the Agency's drafting act could be published on the EPSO website. 
Due to the high replacement costs of this new policy (approximately EUR 19 000 per job advertised), EMSA, like many other agencies, no longer uses EPSO services in its vacancy notices. 
This point was raised by some agencies over EPSO in December 2015. 
EMSA would welcome a decision that provides both sufficient transparency and complies with the principle of sound financial management. 
The Agency strives to make its job advertisements known to a wide audience by distributing them on various social media used by many people. 
It should be noted that most EMSA vacancy notices are addressed to technical professionals who regularly access the EMSA website. 
In 2017, EMSA made extensive preparations for adapting all internal procedures to the use of e-procurement. 
EMSA can confirm that it has been implementing the e-procurement modules since the beginning of 2018. 
The deadline for the use of e-procurement by EU bodies is October 2018. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/79 3.11. 
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FR NETWORK AND INFORMATION SECURITY (ENISA) INTRODUCTION 3.11.1. 
The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also established by Athens and Heraklion(100), was established by Regulation (EC) No 460/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (101), which was replaced by Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 (102) after several EUR amendments. 
The Agency's main task is to improve the Union's ability to address and address network and information security problems by taking advantage of the measures taken at national and EU level. 
3.11.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (103). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 11 total staff at 31. (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
We have (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (104) and the reports on budget implementation (105) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.11.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
(100) The Agency's operational staff was relocated to Athens in March 2013. 
L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 1. 
L 165, 18.6.2013, p. 41. 
(103) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.enisa.europa.eu. 
(104) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of the basic accounting principles and other congestion. 
(105) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarised by the appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/80 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.11.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.11.6. 
3.11.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE 3.11.8. 
The Agency's new accounting officer took office on 1. December 2017 on. 
The transfer process was not carried out in accordance with the provisions and did not meet the requirements of Article 55 of the Rules of Application. 
In particular, no reporting report was sent to the new accounting officer. COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.11.9. The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
3.11.10. 
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT 3.11.11. 
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance over the period 2013-2016 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (106). 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.11.12. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(106) The court did not review this work. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/81 (1) According to ENISA, the number of staff was reduced to 11 at the end of 2017. 2015 2016 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) In progress n.e.c. 2016 n.e.e. DE ANHANG Follow-up of observations from previous years The Agency plans to partially relocate administrative staff from Heraklion to Athens in 2016. 
For Title II (Administrative Expenditure), the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year is 0.3 million euro and 25 % (2015: 0.15 million euros or 22 % respectively. 
This high rate is mainly attributable to transfers of funds under Title I (staff expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) and is primarily related to IT investments made shortly before the end of the year and the acquisition of a company car. 
As foreseen in the Agency's financial rules, external evaluations of the Agency's performance were carried out for 2014 and 2015; the final reports were presented in October 2015 and May 2016. 
The 2014 evaluation concluded that the operational core activities carried out under the 2014 Work Programme have a clear link to the Agency's legal mandate; the effectiveness of the Agency has been assessed as good. 
However, there was a need for improvement regarding the division of the Agency between Heraklion and Athens, which leads to heavy workloads, as well as a lack of communication and cooperation. 
The 2015 evaluation concluded that the Agency's activities and outputs correspond to a need for network and information security across the EU and in the Member States and that the Agency effectively meets the expectations of its stakeholders. 
However, the report stressed the need to improve communication between the Agency and its stakeholders, which considers that the mandate and scope of the Agency are too limited. 
The Agency is currently implementing an action plan on which it has as a consequence agreed with the Management Board. 
In 2016, the agency relocated eight additional employees to Athens, reducing the number of employees in Heraklion to 14 (1). 
As the Court pointed out in our 2013 report, the costs could probably be further reduced by pooling all staff at one site. 
De C 434/82 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.11.8. 
Although the transfer to the new accounting officer was never formalised, informal meetings were held with the former incumbent accounting officer for the transfer of knowledge. 
The new accounting officer also received an updated training on SAP to provide a good understanding of the accounting system. 
Nevertheless, ENISA will take remedial measures to ensure adequate clearance between outgoing and new staff. 
3.11.9. 
Vacancy notices published by EPSO must be translated into all official EU languages. 
Given its limited budget, ENISA is unfortunately unable to bear these costs. 
However, the Agency uses traditional and social media and has pledged to contribute to the creation of a multi-agency portal to reduce the risks associated with the publication of vacancy notices, as many of the decentralised entities face the same problem. 
ENISA has not carried out any formal operational and financial consequences of Brexit as it has no significant direct impact on the budget, operation and management of ENISA. 
Nevertheless, included internal procedures (namely procurement and recruitment) were dealt with in the context of Brexit. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/83 3.12. 
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS (ERA) INTRODUCTION 3.12.1. 
The European Union Agency for Railways (hereinafter adie Agency), also located in Lille and Valenciennes, was established by Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, replaced by Regulation (EU) 2016/796 of the European Parliament and of the Council (107). 
The Agency's mission is to improve the interoperability of railway systems and to develop a common approach to safety in order to contribute to the creation of a more competitive European railway sector with a high level of safety. 
3.12.2. 
The following table contains the main figures for the Agency (108). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 31 total staff at 31. 1 December (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 28 155 PRFILITIES 3.12.3. 
We have (a) the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (109) and the reports on budget implementation (110) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.12.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
(107) OJ 
OJ L 220, 21.6.2004, p. 3. 
L 138, 26.5.2016, p. 1. According to the latter Regulation, the original name of the European Railway Agency was replaced by the name of the European Union Agency for Railways. 
(108) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.era.europa.eu. 
(109) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(110) Reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as hauling. 
De C 434/84 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.12.5. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.12.6. 
3.12.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE 3.12.8. 
In December 2016, the agency's accounting officer, in addition to this function, was appointed interim head of the Finance and Procurement Department. 
As part of this additional function, he is responsible for the management of staff responsible for the initiation and verification of commitments and payments. 
The Agency's financial rules stipulate that those financial actors are under the authority of the authorising officer. 
However, according to the principle of separation of tasks, authorising and accounting powers are separate functions and are excluded from each other. 
In 2014, the Commission concluded, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of IT hardware and software, as well as maintenance and support services (IT services). 
In the case of a verified payment of around EUR 47 000, the Agency had acquired IT services from the contractor without a competitive procedure or prior market analysis. In 2017, payments totalling EUR 1.1 million were made to the contractor in Hhe. 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.12.10. 
In 2017, the Internal Audit Service submitted to the Commission a review of the Agency's human resources and competence management(111). 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.12.11. 
The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. (111) The court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/85 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations The Agency's headquarters are located in Lille and Valenciennes. 
As stated by the Court in its special annual report on financial year 2006, the costs could probably be reduced by merging all activities at one site. 
This could also facilitate the conclusion of a comprehensive headquarters agreement with the Member State in which the Agency is located. Thus, the conditions under which the Agency and its staff work were slowed. 
Year 2013 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) In progress (not under the agency's control) 
De C 434/86 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.12.8. 
The Agency is currently being restructured from scratch so that it can take into account its new tasks. 
Within the framework of this and in line with the action plan agreed with the Internal Audit Service, an appropriate separation of tasks for the accounting officer should be established. 
3.12.9. 
As the Court noted, the contract was used in accordance with the contractual provisions of the DIGIT framework contract DI07360. 
Any other financial management needs to be communicated to the contract manager, i.e. DG DIGIT. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/87 3.13. 
EUROPEAN SECURITIES AND MARKETS AUTHORITY RDE (ESMA) INTRODUCTION 3.13.1. 
The European Securities and Markets Authority (hereinafter referred to as "adie Behrde", also known as aESMA...), established in Paris, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (112). 3.13.2. 
The aim of the Behrde is to improve the functioning of the EU internal financial market by providing a high, effective and consistent regulatory and supervisory framework, safeguarding the integrity and stability of financial systems, and strengthening international supervisory coordination in order to ensure the stability and effectiveness of the financial system. 
3.13.3. 
The table contains the most important figures for the Behrde (113). 
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 42 total staff at 31. December (2) 226 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
We have a) the annual accounts of the Behrde, consisting of the annual accounts(114) and the reports on budget implementation (115) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.13.5. 
L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84. 
(113) Further information about the circumstances and activities of the Behrde can be found on their website www.esma.europa.eu. 
(114) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(115) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/88 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.13.6. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.13.7. 
Note 3.13.8. 
Without calling into question its ruling, the Court points out that the United Kingdom was to the European Council on 29 September. Mr 2017 notified its decision to withdraw from the European Union. 
An agreement on the details of the withdrawal is currently being negotiated. 
The budget of the Behrde is 27 % financed by the European Union, 42 % from direct contributions from EU Member States and 29 % from fees from supervised entities (rating agencies and trade repositories). 2 % come from other sources. 
The withdrawal of the United Knigreich could affect the activities of the Behrde, as the main supervised entities are currently based there. 
3.13.9. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.13.10. The Behrde publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not always on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.13.11. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) submitted a review report to ESMA's peer-review procedures to assist national authorities (116). 
The Behrde then prepared an action plan. 
3.13.12. 
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory duties (117) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (118). 
(116) The court did not review these inspections. 
(117) ESMA, the European Banking Authority and the European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Occupational Pensions. 
(118) The Court did not review this evaluation work. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/89 ANNEX OF THE BEH RDE 3.13.7. 
ESMA recognises the problem and will continue to follow developments in the Brexit negotiations. 
EPSO has decided to publish ESMA job alerts on its website only if the vacancy notices are available in 24 languages. 
In 2017, the replacement costs to be borne by ESMA (fnf vacancy notices of 16) amounted to EUR 32 431. 
ESMA considers that the costs of replacing all vacancy notices in 23 languages are not justified in terms of sound budget management and has therefore decided to use other media in which the majority of EU agencies publish their vacancy notices. 
De C 434/90 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.14. 
EUROPEAN AGENCY FR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK (EU-OSHA) INTRODUCTION 3.14.1. 
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also established in Bilbao, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 (119). 
As regards the Agency's tasks, the collection and dissemination of information on national and EU competitions in the field of safety and health at work, the support of national and EU bodies involved in policy-making and implementation, and the provision of information on preventive measures. 
3.14.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (120). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 15 total staff at 31. (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 17 65 PRFILITIES 3.14.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (121) and the reports on budget implementation (122) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.14.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
(119) OJ 
L 216, 20.8.1994, p. 1. This Regulation was last gendered by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005. 
(120) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.osha.europa.eu. 
(121) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(122) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarised by appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/91 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.14.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.14.6. 
3.14.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.14.8. 
The manager of the agency's accounting officer is the Head of the Resource and Services Centre. 
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.14.9. 
The appropriations for Title II (Administrative Expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) were high at 40 % for each title or a total of 3.5 million euro, which is contrary to the budgetary principle of honor. 
There is no indication that the funds allocated are linked to expenditure planned during the budgetary procedure. 
For example, in December 2017, the Agency ordered IT equipment and Brombel for an amount of EUR 220 000. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (123) (124). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
The agency had not implemented any of these tools by the end of 2017. 
3.14.11. 
Unlike most other agencies, the Agency did not carry out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, its operating fees and its accounting. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.14.12. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(123) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Art. 79 e-government. 
(124) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
C 434/92 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 2016 Undergoing DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years: EUR 417 279 and 30 % (2015: The rate of committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) for Title II (administrative expenditure) was high, i.e. EUR 364 740 or 26 % respectively. 
These transfers mainly concern IT services which had not yet been fully supplied or invoiced at the end of the year. 
The committed appropriations for Title III for the following financial year amounted to EUR 3 370 616 and 43 % respectively (2015: EUR 3 383 052 and 41 % respectively. 
These funding transfers mainly concern research projects and studies lasting more than one year. 
In 2014, the Agency concluded a framework contract for IT consulting services for the period 2014-2017 for a total amount of EUR 1.1 million. 
Although the individual contracts signed in 2016 to implement the framework contract clearly defined project performance, consultants were required on the basis of time and resources. The price is not fixed and directly linked to the service, but is determined by the number of working days worked. 
In addition, around 50 % of the IT consulting services were provided outside the agency's rumours in 2016, so that the agency could only monitor the efficient implementation of the operations to a limited extent. 
In 2016, payments made in accordance with the provisions of this framework contract amounted to around 0.4 million euros. 
The Agency's grunting regulation does not explicitly require external evaluations of its activities. 
The Commission's proposal for a new Grndung Regulation stipulates that an evaluation must be carried out every five years. 2016 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) In progress (not under the agency's control) 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/93 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.14.8. 
For organisational reasons, the accounting officer is assigned to the resource and service centre in the organisation chart, exposing its activity in the service centres of financial personnel. 
However, the accounting officer is directly subordinated to the Director (not the Head of the Resource and Service Centre) in order to ensure his independence. 
3.14.9. 
The contributions for Title III concern mainly large-scale research projects with a duration of more than one year and are linked to the 2017 annual work programme. 
The assignments under Title II relate primarily to services for which contracts have a duration of two calendar years. 
With regard to the amount in Hhe of EUR 0.2 million, it should be noted that the amount of Title II appropriations has been reduced to EUR 1.4 million since 2014 and the Agency's move to new ruminations, which resulted in savings from 0.6 million euro per year. 
In 2017, the appropriations of Title II were further reduced by EUR 60 000 by an amending budget adopted in June, with a view to reducing the contribution of local authorities to the EU-OSHA infrastructure budget. 
The majority of relevant IT procurements were planned for 2018 (and as such documented in the 2017 draft budget and further budgetary planning phases). However, the required commitments (EUR 100 000) were finally made in 2017, when appropriations were available. 
From the 2019 budget, a list of possible additional IT procurements will be added to the programming document, provided that funds are available, e.g. due to renegotiations of prices. 
The transfer between the titles (in accordance with the provisions of the Framework Financial Regulation) has been communicated to the Management Board, the Parliament and the Council. 
3.14.10. 
Since the end of 2016, the Agency has been providing electronic access through its website to all procedures initiated (ex-ante announcements of low or medium value and contract notices), in addition to providing specific e-mail addresses for the award of public procurement. 
2018 (target: The Agency will launch the electronic tendering tool for the publication and processing of requests for information up to the submission of tenders. 
The Agency has now carried out an analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, its operations and its accounting. 
De C 434/94 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.15. 
EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS (EUROFOUND) INTRODUCTION 3.15.1. 
The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (hereinafter adie Foundation), also established in Dublin, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (125). 
The purpose of the Foundation is to contribute to the development and creation of better living and working conditions in the Union by promoting and disseminating relevant knowledge. 
3.15.2. 
The table contains the most important figures for the Foundation (126). 
Table Main figures for the Foundation 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 total staff at 31. 1 100 1. The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
Source: Data provided by the Foundation. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 21 104 PRFILITIES 3.15.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Foundation consisting of the annual accounts (127) and the reports on budget implementation (128) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.15.4. According to our assessment, the Foundation's annual accounts for the 31st December 2017 end of year the foundation's financial position on 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 139, 30.5.1975, p. 1. 
(126) Further information about the needs and activities of the Foundation can be found on its website www.eurofound.europa.eu. 
(127) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net mix, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(128) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/95 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.15.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.15.6. 
3.15.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.15.8. 
In the course of this year's inspection of smt EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and the independence of its accounting directors. 
At the foundation, the head of the Department of Administration and Finance is the head of the accounting officer. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (129) (130). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017, the Foundation had introduced e-invoicing and electronic tendering for certain procedures, but not the electronic submission of tenders. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.15.10. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(129) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Art. 79 e-government. 
(130) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
C 434/96 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In its report on the annual accounts for 2014 the Court pointed to too low staff gaps in the period 2005-2014, which were linked to the accession to the new EU Staff Regulations in 2005. 
Although the overly low aggravations have different grndes (2014: Non-compliance with the minimum guaranteed bidders; 2015: Applying an incorrect multiplication factor to the Gehlters, but the Court found again too low (EUR 43 350) as well as some outstanding delays (EUR 168 930) involving 30 active and former employees. 
Eurofound corrected all too low delays, but will not reclaim the delays (in accordance with Article 85 of the Staff Regulations currently in force). 
The Foundation should re-assess the errors that may have occurred in the course of the 2005 Staff Regulations and carry out a comprehensive evaluation of its payroll. 
In its December 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the need for the Foundation to improve its project management, in particular with regard to governance, monitoring and reporting. 
The Foundation and the IAS agreed on a plan for correction measures. 
EUR 2.8 million or 43 % (2015: 2.1 million euro and 31 % respectively increased the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) to 2016 which was mainly attributable to annual projects (studies and pilot trials). 
The Foundation may draw up separate budget appropriations to better reflect the multi-year nature of the activities and the inevitable distortions between contract signatures, deliveries and payments. 
The Foundation's Grndung Ordinance does not explicitly require external evaluations of its activities. 
The Commission's proposal for a new Grndung Regulation stipulates that an evaluation must be carried out every five years. 
Year 2016 2016 2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/97 ANNEX OF OPINION 3.15.8. 
The Board of Directors is satisfied with the current independence of the Accounting Officer, in particular with regard to its pre-existing power to report directly to the Chair in accordance with Article 6.1 of the Charter of the Auditor, as well as with regard to the participation of the Board of Directors in the appointment procedure. 
However, a new conciliation regulation currently being carried out between the institutions will likely assign the role of the appointing officer to the Management Board and not to the Director. 
This enables Eurofound to reassess the question of the greater indebtedness of the accounting agent in the future. 
3.15.9. 
However, two pilot agencies have had serious problems with the software. 
In addition, the electronic procurement software is currently available only for open tenders (but not for tenders according to the negotiated procedure), of which Eurofound has very few per year. 
Therefore, Eurofound will continue to follow developments and is ready to invest in e-procurement as soon as it is satisfied with its stability and functionality. 
De C 434/98 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.16. 
AGENCY FR THE EUROPEAN GNSS (GLOBAL NAVIGATION SATELLITE SYSTEM) (GSA) INTRODUCTION 3.16.1. 
The Agency for the European GNSS (global satellite navigation system) (hereinafter referred to as adie Agency), also known as 'aGSA'), whose seat was moved from Brssel to Prague(131) on 1 September 2012, was established by Regulation (EU) No 912/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (132) repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 (133) concerning the administrative bodies of the European satellite navigation programmes and amending Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council(134). 
The European GNSS-Behrde established under Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 officially carried out all the tasks previously entrusted to the Galileo Joint Undertaking on 1 January 2007. The Agency shall continue to carry out these tasks as an Agency for the European GNSS on the basis of Regulation (EU) No 912/2010 in the gendered version. 
In addition, the Commission entrusted the Agency with the operation of the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay System (EGNOS) by means of a delegation agreement. 
3.16.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (135). 
Table Main figures on the Agency's budget (million euro) (1) Total staff at 31. December (3) 2017 704 (2) 166 2016 626 160 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
(2) Of these, the Agency received EUR 676 million through award agreements with the Commission. 
(3) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (136) and the reports on budget implementation (137) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
(131) Consensus Decision 2010/803/EU of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States 
L 276, 20.10.2010, p. 11. 
L 246, 20.7.2004, p. 1. 
L 196, 24.7.2008, p. 1. 
(135) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.gsa.europa.eu. 
(136) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(137) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarised by the appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/99 Allowance of the audit opinion on the eligibility of the invoice 3.16.4. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.16.6. 
Highlighting a situation 3.16.7. 
On the 15th. In December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement worth EUR 1.5 billion on the operation of the Galileo satellite system during the period 2017-2027. 
The agreement was awarded following a public procurement procedure. 
One of the tenderers involved brought proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the Agency in order to challenge the outcome of the procurement procedure. 
The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union will rule on the legality and regularity of the award procedure in respect of the framework agreement and all related individual amounts and payments. 
The Agency reported the facts in the 2017 financial statements and reported that in 2017 49 million euros (7 % of the 2017 budget including betrge received from the transfer agreements) were disbursed in connection with the framework agreement. 
Note 3.16.8. 
Negotiations on an agreement on the details of the withdrawal are currently underway. 
The Agency operates both the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) and Galileo ground stations in the United Kingdom. 
In the annual accounts, in the chapter aEvents after the reporting date, the Agency refers to the Commission's decision, adopted on 24 January 2018, to move the second location of the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) from the United Kingdom to Spain. 
3.16.9. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.16.10. 
The headquarters of the agency were relocated and its mandate was redefined in 2013. 
In 2014, the Agency revised its financial rules and delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer in 2015. 
Although these events resulted in significant EUR changes in the Agency's procedures, the accounting system has not been validated again since 2012 (138). 
(138) See also the remark made in 2015 in the follow-up table. 
De C 434/100 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 NOTICES FOR THE ECONOMICITY of Budget Management AND FOR PERFORMANCE 3.16.11. The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
3.16.12. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (139) (140). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. 
It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic invitation to tender in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
The Agency did not use any of these tools at the end of 2017. 
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT 3.16.13. 
In 2017, a mid-term evaluation of the Galileo (141) and EGNOS programmes and the Agency's performance for the period 2014-2016 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (142). 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.16.14. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(139) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Art. 79 e-government. 
(140) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(141) Galileo is the European Union's Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS). 
(142) The Court did not review this evaluation work. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/101 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years 1.0 million euros) are not insured. 
The bookkeeping systems were last validated in 2012. 
The promised validation of the systems has not taken place due to the expected substantial EUR changes in the procedures and the flow of information following the Agency's relocation. 
The new accounting officer is planning the next validation for 2020. 
The agency has prepared emergency plne (Business Continuity Plans) for the security sites in France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. 
However, there is no contingency plan for the headquarters in Prague and the agency as a whole. 
The Agency's annual work plan for 2015 was only adopted in March 2015 and its multi-year work programme 2014-2020 is still pending. 
The adoption of key planning documents entails risks for the achievement of the Agency's objectives. 
In 2015, the agency had a high staff turnover with 14 outgoing and 26 new employees. 
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that no agency-wide risk assessment was carried out in 2016 and that the significant risks to the Agency are not included in its planning documents or in its performance reports. 
In addition, the IAS noted that the terminology used for the various elements of the performance measurement system is not uniform, making performance monitoring more difficult. 
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. EUR 2.8 million or 46 % (2015: 2.5 million euro or 42 % of committed appropriations for the following financial year was high for Title II (administrative expenditure). 
De C 434/102 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.16.10. 
The GSA agrees with the Court's comment. 
In 2015, the GSA outsourced its accounts to the European Commission, so that the Commission's accounting officer (within DG Budget) provides all services, including the validation of local systems, which are required under Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to agencies. 
The validation concept is currently being developed and planned within DG Budget services. 
3.16.11. 
The publication of vacancy notices on the EPSO platform requires a translation into all EU official languages, whereas English is the only working language of the Agency and the publication of vacancies in English is seen as a useful pre-selection step to ensure that our working language is understood at once. 
In addition, the placement of vacancy notices in all EU official languages would entail an additional financial and time-consuming effort for the Agency, so that this would not result in any benefit from the abovementioned circumstances. Instead, the GSA intends to publish all vacancy notices on the agency portal, which the agencies consider to be equivalent to EPSO and offer sufficient transparency to EU leaders. 
In addition, the Agency publishes its vacancy notices also on specialised space websites. 
Electronic communications in TED (available by the Office for Publication) for the publication of contract notices, contract notices, notices of corrections, EURmodification notices, etc. are currently used in the GSA whenever this is appropriate in accordance with Article 264 of the Rules of Application. 
The Agency also intends to use the e-Tendering system TED to draw up and publish tenders. 
Against this background, the GSA is currently in consultation with the Office for Publications to register and create a system account. 
With regard to high value tenders (above the thresholds of Article 118(1) FR), the GSA is currently taking the necessary administrative steps to use the Ăe-Submission module of the Ăe-PRIOR information system developed by the European Commission (available by DG DIGIT) in order to ensure that the electronic system set up for the submission of all tenders is met by the FR and AB. 
It is pointed out that the module Ăe-Submissions currently supports exclusively open procedures and therefore the GSA may only use it for such procedures. 
In this context, the GSA has already held a first coordination meeting with DG DIGIT and is in the process of finalising and signing an agreement with it in order to define the framework for and start implementation of the Submission Framework. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/103 Agencies financed under MFF sub-heading 2. Sustainable growth: natural resources 3.17. 
EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (EEA) INTRODUCTION 3.17.1. 
The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as 'adie Agentur', also aEUA...), established in Copenhagen, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90(143). 
The Agency is responsible for setting up an environmental monitoring network to provide the Commission, Parliament, the Member States and, more generally, information to the public on the state of the environment. 
3.17.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (144). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 70 total staff at 31. 1 December (1) The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
Source: Data provided by the Agency; the figures indicated include both the core budget and other appropriations. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 50.5 208 PRFUNGSURP 3.17.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (145) and the reports on budget implementation (146) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The applicability of the invoice judgment on the eligibility of the invoice 3.17.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 1. 
(144) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.eea.europa.eu. 
(145) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(146) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/104 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.17.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.17.6. 
3.17.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.17.8. 
In the course of this year's inspection of smt EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and the independence of its accounting directors. 
The manager of the Agency's accounting officer is the Head of Administrative Services. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.17.9. The EEA noted that one of the European thematic centres (ETCs inland, coastal and marine) implemented the Action Plan for 2016 with significant deteriorations. 
It therefore did not recognise some results and rejected part of the costs claimed by the ETC. 
The correction of the amount of the final payment also shows that financial and performance controls have been further improved in relation to the grants awarded to the ETC. 
3.17.10. 
In several procurement procedures, some Mngels have been identified. 
The Agency used tender specifications for several tenders which did not contain minimum economic and financial performance requirements for the selection criteria. 
In the light of those criteria, contrary to its objective, it is therefore not necessary to determine whether a tenderer thereby fulfils the conditions necessary for the implementation of the contract. 
3.17.11. 
For some high-value tenders, the price competition was based exclusively on the daily scraps offered for certain profiles and not on the time expected to complete the tasks. 
Framework agreements were concluded with only one tenderer, although a renewed call for competition between different tenderers would lead to better results in terms of the individual bidders. 
3.17.12. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (147) (148). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
3.17.13. 
In particular, the decisions taken were not sufficiently detailed in the minutes of the selection committee. 
The criteria used at each stage of the selection procedure and the role of the individual members of the selection committee must be specified in greater detail in order to improve transparency and equal treatment of candidates. 
(147) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(148) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/105 3.17.14. 
The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and make it possible for Brgers to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies. The main reason cited by the Agency is the high replacement costs for EPSO publications, which must be translated into all the official languages of the EU. 
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGET 3.17.15. 
In order to implement the Copernicus transfer agreement concluded with the Commission, the Agency entered into several legal obligations linked to Copernicus before receiving the pre-financing from the Commission. 
Although there was an exceptional report signed by the Director of the Agency for these obligations, this approach constitutes a breach of the rules of application of the Financial Regulation. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.17.16. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
C 434/106 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In 2016, the Agency updated its security approach, but many of its other internal procedures are outdated. 
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) carried out the procedures for drawing up the State of the Environment Report 2015 (SOER). 
In 2014, the Commission concluded, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), a framework contract with a contractor for the acquisition of software and licences as well as related IT maintenance and consulting services. 
In 2016, the Agency used this framework contract to acquire software licenses worth a total of EUR 442 754. 
The larger order concerned the renewal of software licenses provided by an exclusive Scandinavian recooker (EUR 112 248). 
In that case, the use of the framework contract, which led to unreasonable slackening, was not justified. 2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.) Completed n.e.c. 2016 In progress 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/107 ANNEX OF THE AGENTURY NOTICES FOR THE RELIABILITY OF ACCOUNT 3.17.8. The Agency has reiterated the Court's remark with the Auditor and is attested that the functional inconsistency is justified by the fact that the billing agent is a member of staff who is at a high salary level (AD 12) and has direct access to the Management Board. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.17.9. 
The Agency acknowledges that the Court will continue to improve its management of the ETC in terms of both financial and operational controls. 
In order to reiterate the problem encountered at the ETC in 2017, the task in question was removed from the annual action plan and transferred to the Agency. 
The Agency shall endeavour to maintain the current level of controls on grants awarded to the ETC. 
The Agency confirms that it has gendered the requirements relating to the verification of the financial performance of tenderers in the course of 2017 and that tenderers are now required to provide information on key financial figures (liquid, solvency and rentabilitt); in addition, in accordance with the provisions of Article 147(1)(a) of the Rules of Application (AB), a minimum turnover is now required, which must be at least twice the value of the value of the annual contract. 
The Agency would like to emphasise once again that the decision to offer framework distortions to individual contractors has been made consciously and with due regard to the fact that competition is limited to the relevant markets, as well as the nature and complexity of the services to be provided. 
When awarding individual contracts on the basis of the framework contract, the Agency shall not only take into account the contractually agreed daily rates, but also the number of days required to carry out the tasks in order to calculate a depreciation value for the budget to be allocated for a specific specific contract. 
Only then will negotiations be initiated with the contractor on the details of his tender, always paying attention to achieving the best price-performance ratio. 
In the event of a resumption of the call for tenders, the Agency shall not be responsible for any further negotiations on the tenderers' tenders. 
In line with the decision of the Management Board of 9 November 2015 to introduce an e-invoicing in the EEA in the course of 2014, the Agency has introduced electronic invoicing procedures for certain procedures and is now in the process of extending the application of this module to all its procedures; the electronic call for tenders, on the other hand, has been applicable to all general tenders since 1 January 2015. 
The integration of the electronic submission of tenders started at the beginning of December 2017 and the first call for tenders in which this module was used was launched on 18 June 2018 (EEA/COM/18/002 provision of publishing services to the EEA). 
The Agency takes note of the Court's observation and confirms that it is currently adapting its selection/recruitment procedures in the following areas: a) The completion of the individual steps in the different phases (pre-selection, selection, application review and written examination) is confirmed in the relevant documents with the time indication (not only with the date). b) On the given questions for the application test and the written examination will be systematically prepared during the pre-selection phase. c) In order to improve reporting, an electronic (paperless) procedure is introduced. 
3.17.14. 
EPSO has refused to publish to the Agency with the approval that the precondition for all job vacancies to be replaced in all official languages is not satisfied. 
However, the Agency does not have the resources or resources to comply with EPSO's request. 
In this case, not only should all vacancies be filled, but also the applications must be processed in all official languages, which entails unsustainably high additional costs. 
As with most other EU agencies, the Agency has therefore looked for an alternative to EPSO's website and, since May 2018, has used a website for its announcements with the same purpose; it is the Job Advertisement Board set up and maintained by the EU Agencies Network. 
In addition, the agency uses LinkedIn, its own website and its own Facebook pages to ensure the best possible distribution. 
De C 434/108 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 NOTICES TO Budget 3.17.15. 
Prior to the conclusion of the Copernicus grant agreement with DG GROW, the Agency indicated that the pre-financing conditions are not compatible with the Financial Regulation (Article 7 AR of the 2014 Financial Regulation). 
At first, DG GROW expressed its understanding in its reply; however, DG BUDG, responsible for drawing up the standard template, refused to amend the transfer agreement. 
After the start of the implementation of the transfer agreement, the Agency continued to point out the problems and declared that it is regularly forced to invoke exceptions in order to continue its operational activity; this led DG GROW to amend the pre-financing conditions of the transfer agreement in August 2017 and to carry out additional pre-financing in November 2017. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/109 3.18. 
EUROPEAN FISHERIES CONTROL AGENCY (EFCA) INTRODUCTION 3.18.1. 
The European Fisheries Control Agency (hereinafter 'adie Agentur', also known as 'AEFCA'), established in Vigo by Council Regulation (EC) No 768/2005(149). 
3.18.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (150). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 17 Total staff at 31. December (2) 72 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 2. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO THE COUNCIL AND TO THE COUNCIL 10 64 PRFILITIES 3.18.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (151) and the reports on budget implementation (152) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
L 128, 21.5.2005, p. 1. 
(150) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.efca.europa.eu. 
(151) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(152) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarised by appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/110 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.18.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.18.6. 
3.18.7. 
Internal Audit Service reports and external evaluation reports 3.18.8. 
In November 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service provided the Agency with a review report on aIT monitoring and project management(153). 
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. 
3.18.9. 
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency was carried out on behalf of the Management Board (154). 
The Agency prepared a plan to implement the recommendations. 
(153) The Court did not review these inspections. 
(154) The Court did not review this evaluation work. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/111 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR The Agency takes note of the Court's report. 
De C 434/112 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under MFF sub-heading 3.19. 
The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also established in Budapest, was established by Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council (155), which repeals and replaces Council Decision 2005/681/JHA (156). 
3.19.2. 
The following table contains the main figures for the Agency (157). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 9 total staff at 31. 1. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL PRESENTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL, ECA'S NOTE FROM THE UNABILITIVE COUNCIL 2016 10 51 PRFUNGSURPART 3.19.3. 
We have a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (158) and the reports on budget implementation (159) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.19.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
(155) Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training (EPA) and replacing and repealing Council Decision 2005/681/JHA 
L 256, 1.10.2005, p. 63. 
(157) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.cepol.europa.eu. 
(158) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of the basic accounting principles and other congestion. 
(159) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising the amounts of revenue and expenditure, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/113 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.19.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.19.6. 
3.19.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.19.8. 
The Agency delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer in 2014. 
In addition, the headquarters of the agency was relocated in 2014 and its mandate was redefined in 2016. 
Although these events resulted in EUR changes in the Agency's procedures, the accounting system has not been validated again since 2013. 
In December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement with an economic operator with a value of 1.6 million euro and a duration of four years on the provision of temporary employment. 
The only competition criterion in the award procedure was the price. 
A framework agreement with several companies selected on the basis of price and quality criteria would have been better with regard to the timely provision of high-quality services. 
3.19.10. 
On 29. In March 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit). 
3.19.11. 
The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and make it possible for Brgers to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies. 
3.19.12. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (160) (161). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.19.13. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on the assessment of needs, planning and budgeting with regard to training measures at the Agency (162). 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.19.14. 
(160) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(161) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(162) The Court did not review the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS). 
C 434/114 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years: EUR 140 055 and 30 % (2015: EUR 212 456 or 49 %) was high for Title II (expenditure for supportive activities) of committed appropriations for the following financial year. 
Staff turnover is high, which could affect the maintenance of business operations and the ability of the Agency to carry out the activities provided for in its work programme. 
Between 2013 and 2016, the number of staff from the host state rose from one to 16, representing 31 % of the total staff in 2016. 
Mg for the small number of applications from other Member States are the correction coefficient applicable to salary costs for the host State (69 %) and competition with another EU body, which is also located in Budapest. 
2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.c.) n.e.c. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/115 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.19.8. 
CEPOL agrees with the Court's comment. 
In 2014, CEPOL outsourced its accounts to the European Commission, so that the Commission's accounting officer (within DG Budget) provides all services, including validation of local systems, required under Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to agencies. 
The validation concept is currently being developed and planned within DG Budget services. 
3.19.9. 
The Agency took note of the Court's observations but did not share its opinion. 
The criteria for quality were included in the technical specifications and tenderers who failed to meet the criteria were excluded. 
The decision to award a single framework contract is based on previous experience and specificities of the national labour market. 
The Agency took note of the Court's observations. 
Brexit has been achieved in meetings of the management boards; the discussions in the NAPO (Agency Network for Procurement Officers) and the IALN (agency-based legal network) as well as the communications transmitted by the Commission were closely followed. 
The risks to CEPOL were assessed as low, but not officially documented. 
The estimated cost of posting vacancy notices in all official EU languages, as required for publication on the EPSO website, is considered too high given the expected benefits. 
As of 2018, CEPOL will also publish all vacancies on the agency-wide Jobbrse, which was developed by the network of EU agencies. 
The Agency took note of the Court's comments and confirmed that progress will be made in the e-submission of tenders in cooperation with DG DIGIT. 
3.19.13. 
The Agency confirms that progress has been made in the implementation of the Action Plan, with two out of four recommendations assessed as being implemented by the Internal Audit Service. 
De C 434/116 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20. 
EUROPEURISCHES SUPPORT BRO FR ASYLUM QUESTIONS (EASO) INTRODUCTION 3.20.1. 
The European Asylum Support Fund (hereinafter referred to as 'adas Bro'), also established in Valletta, was established by Regulation (EU) No 439/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (163) to facilitate practical cooperation in the field of asylum and to support Member States in the fulfilment of their European and international obligations for the protection of vulnerable people. 
Since 2015, the Bro has been supporting Greece and Italy in the context of the migration crisis. 
3.20.2. 
Table 1 contains the most important figures for the Bro (164). 
Table 1 Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 79 total staff at 31. December (2) 200 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Bro. EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 53 125 PRFILITIES 3.20.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Bros, consisting of the annual accounts(165) and the reports on budget implementation (166) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the exclusiveness of the accounting procedure 3.20.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Bros for the 31st December 2017 end year the bros's merging and financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 132, 29.5.2010, p. 11. 
(164) Further information about the conditions and activities of the Bros can be found on its website www.easo.europa.eu. 
(165) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(166) Reports on budget implementation include appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/117 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.20.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Basis for the failure to pass judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.6. 
Sections 3.20.9-3.20.31 describe essential and systematic understandings against the financial regulations of the Bros as well as other rules and provisions for payments. Payments made in connection with procurement and recruitment procedures were particularly affected. 
The cumulative error resulting from the irregular payments amounts to at least EUR 7.7 million or 10.3 % of the total payments made by the Bro in 2017. 
Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.7. 
According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Payments underlying the end of December 2017 due to the importance of the facts described in section aGrundlage for the failure to comply with the judgment on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts are vitiated by material errors. 
Highlighting a situation 3.20.8. 
As of the end of 2017, the staff situation at the Bro deteriorated exponentially. 
At the management level of the Bros, four out of ten Heads of Unit and 18 out of 27 Heads of Unit were not filled. 
In the aAdministration department, three out of four Heads of Unit and fnf out of 10 Heads of Unit were not filled. This represents a deplorable challenge for the bros's management level. 
In addition, 129 temporary staff posts were filled at the end of May 2018, but 78 were still open. 
71 of the contract staff posts were filled and 13 were still open. 
The Bro does not currently have administrative capacity to fill so many vacancies (see Table 2). 
Overall, this situation has significantly contributed to the continuation of the bros's activities at present. 
De C 434/118 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Table 2 Organisation chart of the Bros early June 2018 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/119 NOTICES FOR RECOMMENDATION AND ORDERALITY OF THE PAYMENTS AND THE DECISION OF INTERNATIONAL CONTROLLS The nature of its activities results in major risks for Bro 3.20.9. 
Since 2016, the Bro has been confronted with an unprecedented extension of tasks and activities to provide operational and technical support to Member States in the context of the migration crisis. 
This is reflected in an increase in the budget from EUR 19 million in 2016 to EUR 79 million after the second change in the 2017 budget. 
The number of procurement procedures increased from 87 in 2015 to 140 in 2017. 
Payments increased by 225 % from 2 578 in 2015 to 8 381 in 2017. 
3.20.10. 
The Bro is one of the few institutions of the European Union that has several locations. 
In addition to its headquarters in Malta with 179 statutory staff, the Bro manages two major support actions in Greece and Italy, in which 747 experts from Member States and associated countries, 202 cultural mediators (interpreters), 178 temporary workers and 21 staff members of the Bros were involved in 2017. 
3.20.11. 
As we have already seen in our Special Report No 6/2017 aReaction from the EU to the refugee crisis: the hotspot concept has determined that the Bro is highly dependent on the Member States making sufficient resources available. 
The efficiency of the activities is particularly affected by the fact that Member States send their experts for very short periods of time (six to eight weeks). 
The extraordinary operational challenge caused by the migration crisis was not mitigated by a solid governance structure and effective internal controls 3.20.12. 
With the inclusion of the activities to support Greece and Italy in 2015, the Bro was confronted with the fact that Member States provided insufficient resources for posting. 
It had already been difficult for the Bro to fill the posts provided for in its establishment plan. 
Since 2014, the Court has regularly reiterated its remark that the Bro has to pluck with a high staff turnover. 
In its previous annual reports, the Court repeatedly stressed that this situation poses a serious risk to achieving the objectives set out in the annual and multi-year work programmes. 
Despite repeated attempts (36 recruitment procedures and 100 new contracts in 2017), the Bro has not succeeded in recruiting and retaining staff in general (see also paragraph a Emphasis of a situation in point 3.20.8). 
3.20.13. 
The extraordinary challenge in the operational area caused by the migration crisis was not mitigated by a solid management structure. 
The Board of Directors did not set up an internal audit body at the Bro and the actions in Greece and Italy were not subject to internal audits. 
By the end of 2017, the Board of Directors had limited supervision over the budget management. 
3.20.14. 
The Bro does not have an internal legal service, nor is legal documents systematically reviewed internally. 
The brochure awards most legal questions (mainly personnel and procurement questions) according to paragraphs, without clearly defining in internal decisions or guidelines who may issue which legal questions externally, to which law firm and under what conditions. 
Although the Bro employs at least eight different law firms, a comprehensive list of all relevant contracts, cases and expert opinions is missing. 
3.20.15. 
Legal services are not adequately reviewed by the Bro to ensure that they are exclusively used to defend the interests of the Bros and not to defend the interests of individuals. 
The appropriate procedures to protect against conflicts of interest are not always effective. 
In general, the use of external applications restricts the possibility of resolving disputes prior to bringing proceedings. 
3.20.16. 
The facts set out in points 3.20.13-3.20.14 expose the Bro to the risk of financial losses and reputation damage. 
These issues are currently being investigated internally by the Bro. 
Numerous essential provisions against regulations as a result of lack of internal controls payments for temporary benefits 3.20.17. 
In 2017, payments in Hhe amounted to 7.7 million euros for temporary payments. 
In the absence of a competitive public procurement procedure, the Court found the contract for temporary assistance in Greece to be irregular in its 2016 audit. 
Nevertheless, in 2017 the Bro still made payments in Hhe of EUR 4.8 million under this non-compliant order. 
De C 434/120 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.18. 
The procurement procedures carried out in Malta in 2017 for temporary services (payment volume in 2017: 1.0 million euros) were inconvenient in their resolution (e.g. short deadlines for submission of tenders, lack of transparency in time-limits), which ensured competition was one of the most important principles in public procurement procedures. 
As a result, the procedures had to be repeated several times because no offers were received. 
3.20.19. 
The contracts were insufficiently checked for compliance with the national rules on temporary employment contracts, which exposed the Bro to significant financial and reputational risks. 
In addition, the examination of proof of working time for temporary workers and detected irregularities showed significant weaknesses. 
Payments for personnel expenditure 3.20.20. 
Personnel-related payments amounted to EUR 13.5 million in 2017. The Court found serious misfortunes in four of the 14 audited recruitment procedures. 
3.20.21. 
For example, the Bro did not publish a vacancy notice to fill the position of a senior adviser, but carried out the recruitment directly on the basis of a reserve list drawn up for the post of head of department. 
The deadlines were not always justified in view of the number of applications received by the original deadline. 
3.20.22. 
Some procedures for recruiting AD staff were not suitable for the grade advertised. 
In a procedure to fill a management post in the aAdministration department, the vacancy notice was more restrictive than for the same posts in other departments. 
In another procedure, the examination of candidates' suitability was not adequately documented by the Bro. 
Payments for rent and related construction services 3.20.23. 
The total rent for all Bros at the various locations amounted to two million euros in 2017. 
The Court found that the Bro had signed the lease for the expansion of its headquarters in Malta and several new Bros in Athens, Lesbos and Chios, without having previously adequately analysed the local market. 
3.20.24. 
In June 2017, the Bro signed a lease agreement for Broflchen in Lesbos. 
It also accepted a contract with the landlord without any competition for the works to adapt the rented building to the needs of the Bros. 
The value of the construction contract (0.7 million euros during the first months of the rental contract) increased the annual value of the lease by many times. 
The investment of significant stakes in rented buildings is accompanied by serious financial and operational risks. 
3.20.25. 
In 2018, the Bro decided to cut a lease for Broflchen in Chios and related construction services. 
It is currently limited to the financial risk exposure resulting from the denunciation. 
Payments for travel expenses 3.20.26. 
In 2016 the Court found an order for travel services worth EUR 4 million for irregularity during its inspection. 
The contract was awarded to a tenderer who did not fulfil all the selection criteria. 
On the basis of this irregular order, the Bro continued to make payments in 2017 in Hhe of 1.5 million. 
3.20.27. 
In 2017, the Bro found significant amounts of recognition of travel services, in particular the lack of evidence to demonstrate that the travel services in question were actually requested or provided. 
This issue is currently being investigated internally by the Bro. 
Other payments 3.20.28. 
In addition, other services such as cleaning services, security services, interpreting and consulting services based on public procurement procedures were also systematically affected by the same rules. 
The Court identified significant differences in the assessment of needs for the Bro, the preparation of the tender specifications, the choice of the type of contract, the procurement procedures applied, the time limits for submission of tenders, the evaluation and award procedures (i.e. the weighting of the price criteria over the quality criteria), the EUR changes and the delays, the use of the contract and the verification of the services provided. 
They have an impact on the fundamentals of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination of tenderers. 
The following digits contain some examples of the above mentioned Mngels. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/121 3.20.29. 
In 2017, the Bro awarded a service contract for consultancy services related to the implementation of the Action Plan on Greek Islands. 
The contract was awarded to a pre-selected economic operator without any of the procurement procedures provided for in the Financial Regulation. 
The procurement procedure and all related payments (EUR 992 000) were therefore irregular. 
3.20.30. 
The Bro has since amended the original contract of EUR 5 000 concluded with a law firm in 2016 and increased it to EUR 259 000 in 2018. 
For the contract, payments totalling EUR 98 332 were made in 2017, partly for consultancy services requiring a competitive public procurement procedure. 
The changes and payments relating to these advisory services were therefore irregular. 
3.20.31. 
The execution of the contract concluded in 2013 (value: EUR 120 000, increased to EUR 132,000 in 2017) for the organisation of four to six major events in an international hotel during a period of four years was not in line with the original subject-matter of the contract. 
The Bro used the contract instead for an unbelievable 50 smaller events. 
The execution of the contract has therefore not been carried out in accordance with the provisions. 
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.20.32. 
In accordance with the agreements between the European Union and the Knigreich Norway, the Swiss Confederation and the Frstentum Liechtenstein (also referred to as Associated Lnder) concerning their participation in the Bro, the associated Lnder are fully involved in the work of the Bros and are entitled to support measures of the Bros. 
The Bro received financial assistance from the Commission in 2016 to ensure adequate capacity building in Greece, to support the implementation of the European Union and Trkei Declaration and to significantly speed up redistribution in order to reduce the current high burden on Greece. 
All these activities steal to the core of the Bros, nm of the support of measures of common interest. 
The Bro used the financial assistance for payments (6,4 million euro in 2016 and EUR 1.7 million in 2017) of commitments made in connection with these activities. 
However, it did not include this betrge in the calculation of the contributions of the associated countries. 
If these contributions were included, the associated countries would have to pay 0.5 million euros more. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.20.33. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
C 434/122 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE 2013 2014 2014 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) In progress (1) n.e.c. (2) In progress In progress In progress with observations from previous years' observations from the Court's observations 446 (18 %) were made in accordance with the deadlines laid down in the Financial Regulation. 
In accordance with a decision of the Executive Director, participants in meetings organised by the Bro are classified in one of three categories (A, B or C) with regard to reimbursement of costs. 
The number of participants classified as recipients of reimbursements in the category of AAA increased from 61 % in 2013 to 69 % in 2014. 
Two of the three tenderers participating in a successful procurement procedure for the provision of travel services on the basis of a framework service contract worth EUR 4 million for the period 2016-2020 were invited to provide additional information on the same selection criteria. 
The framework contract and the 2016 payments based thereon in Hhe of EUR 920 561 are therefore irregular. 
2016 Standing in 2017 (3) 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/123 Court's observations A framework contract with a duration of approximately EUR 3.6 million in the amount of EUR 3.6 million in support of the migration crisis was awarded directly by the Bro in February 2016. 
The framework contract was awarded to a pre-selected economic operator without the application of any of the procurement procedures provided for in the EU Financial Regulation. The award is therefore not in line with the relevant EU rules and the 2016 payments based thereon in Hhe of EUR 592 273 are irregular. 
In August 2016, the Bro launched an open procedure (fnf lots) to award a framework contract to meet its needs for cultural mediators/interpreters in various countries. 
The total value of the framework contract for the four lots awarded and tested (Lose 2-5) was EUR 60 million over four years. 
However, this contractor met the financial requirements of the selection criteria (annual turnover of EUR 1 million) for only two of the three previous years; FR the other year was concluded with a common organisation an obligation to make its turnover available to the contractor (suitability loan). 
At the extraordinary meeting of the European Council of 23 April 2015 and in the 10-point migration plan adopted by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs on 20 April 2015, Member States were invited to ensure the recording of fingerprints for all migrants. 
This required the purchase and subsequent donation to the Greek State of 90 fingerprint scanners and 90 compatible computers (equipment) for an amount of EUR 1.1 million under a grant agreement between the Commission and the Bro. 
However, there were no staff of the Bros in place to meet this claim. Moreover, the acknowledgment of the Greek authorities that the equipment was delivered to the hotspots in February and early March 2016 and to its intended purpose was not received until July 2017. 
Year 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
C 434/124 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Court's observations to the public authorities must ask in writing about the essential components of prices or costs, if they appear to be unsuspectingly low, and must give the tenderer the opportunity to submit its observations (5). 
In its October 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the lack of adequate planning of procurement procedures in relation to administrative expenditure and that there are weaknesses in both the monitoring of procedures and individual increases in the context of framework fraud. 
In 2016, the Bro was confronted with various challenges in its operational environment, including not only the appreciable increase in its budget and the expansion of its tasks, but also the significant increase in the number of advances, the renewal of the accounting officer's post with several interim payments and the introduction of a paperless workflow system. 
This significantly changed and unstable situation was neither mitigated by the revalidation of the accounting system nor by the introduction of a system for regular ex-post reviews of advances. 
In 2014, the Commission concluded on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Bros) a framework contract with a contractor for the acquisition of software licenses, maintenance and support services. 
In 2016, payments totalling EUR 534 900 were made to the contractor of the framework contract. 
On behalf of the Commission, the performance of the Bros was carried out in the period 2011-2014, for which the final report was submitted in December 2015. 
The Bro is currently implementing an action plan agreed with the Management Board in view of its extended mandate. The final implementation report was planned for June 2017. 
Year 2016 2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) n. e.g. In progress (6) Completed (7) 2016 In progress (8) 2016 n.e.c. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/125 DE Court's observations acquired and constructed 65 containers for a total value of EUR 852 136 to be used as mobile bros in the Greek and Italian hotspots. 
VAT refunds for 2014 (EUR 180 919) and 2015 (EUR 245 960) were still outstanding at the end of 2016. 
At 2.5 million euro or 43.9 %, the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year was high for Title II (administrative expenditure) (compared to 2015: EUR 1 076 583 and 36.9 % respectively. 
The transfers mainly concern the IT infrastructure, services in the areas of translation and publication, management advice and costs for meetings of the Board of Directors, which were closed at the end of 2016 and/or invoices were issued only in 2017. 2016 2016 2016 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) n.e.c. (9) In progress (10) n.e.c. 
(2) The internal control standards have been transformed by the Commission into the internal control framework. 
(3) The new contract for the provision of services of the Reisebro was signed in March 2018. 
(4) The new contract for the provision of temporary assistance to EASO in Greece was signed in March 2018. 
(5) Article 151 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 on the rules of application of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union 
(6) In September 2017, the Bro described the IAS as being ready to review the implementation of the recommendations. 
(7) The accounting system was validated in May 2018. 
The ex-post evaluation of Vorgngen is entrusted to private business inspection companies. 
(8) The Bro plans to carry out systematic checks on all tenders above EUR 135 000 from 1 January 2018. 
So far, none of the advances have been above this threshold. 
(9) The insurance companies did not submit the tenders requested by the Bro. 
(10) The Bro applied to the Maltese tax authorities to reimburse VAT for all explanatory periods up to 31. December 2017. 
In 2017, VAT was recovered for a total amount of EUR 203 277 (2014 and Q3 2016). 
De C 434/126 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE BROS The Bro thanked the Court for the most helpful report. 
At the same time, the Bro is grateful to the Court for its commitment to the extremely difficult situation in which the Bro was in the reporting period due to the enormous expansion of its tasks: In addition, it has been mandated to support Member States and participate in the implementation of initiatives at EU level; to this end, the redistribution and explanation of EU-Trkei, the increase in the budget, the exponential increase in payments and the increase in procurement procedures (both in terms of number and complexity). 
In addition, the Bro has to manage a variety of locations and many management positions (heads of department, heads of unit, sector heads) are not filled. 
In its present reply, the Bro will address some of the Court's observations; overall, however, it accepts the report and the findings contained in it. 
3.20.6 and 3.20.13. 
With regard to the systematic stances against the provisions in the Bro, the Bro under the new leadership has begun to take the necessary steps to ensure that compliance with the regulations prevails and becomes the central element of culture and the implementation of all its measures. 
This includes objective, honest and open internal control, self-assessment. 
The Bro accepts the Court's finding that the surveillance structures and internal control structures responsible for the Bro have not received in the past the attention necessary to ensure adequate legality and regularity. 
In this regard, too, the Bro would like to state that the structure of the structures and procedures for the systematic performance of legality and legality (and the correspondingly pricial and comprehensive reporting) will have absolute priority under the new direction. 
3.20.6., 3.20.8. and 3.20.12. 
The Court rightly underlines the fact that the staff situation in the Bro has deteriorated and is insufficient and that it is also an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal control system. 
For the Bro, the current staff situation is one of the biggest challenges related to the rectification of the Mngels identified by the Court in its observations, which can be seen to a large extent as a consequence of the lack of resources for structured and orderly work. 
The paper addresses the problem directly and, on the basis of a well-founded recruitment plan leading up to an assessment of needs, carries out recruitment procedures with urgency to fill the management posts and other important (operational and administrative) posts. 
In addition, the Bro is making efforts in the area of employee satisfaction to address the problem of staff turnover. Although it must be borne in mind in this context that the low correction coefficient in Malta plays an important role compared to the rather high cost of living in Malta, the Bro acknowledges that greater efforts must be made to improve employee satisfaction. 
Some measures such as flexible working opportunities, improved internal communication and organisation of employee events have already been implemented. 
3.20.9. and 3.20.19. 
The Court gives a correct description of the difficulties and the rapid increase in financial transactions and procurement procedures, expressed in absolute terms. 
These figures speak a clear language, but basically do not adequately reflect the financial and procurement gaps. 
In these figures, further facts and measures, which, in addition, the compulsory situation in the procurement sector, are not taken into account, such as the following two aspects: N the use of externally funded experts (Articles 204 and 287 of the Financial Regulations), which represents a high workload for the procurement sector. 
In the coming years, further deterioration can be expected in this regard, as the Bro [medical] expert will have to use [medical] experts to assist in tasks related to medical information about origin. 
N market-specific difficulties and constrictions that coincide with our geographical areas of activity. 
In the regions of Italy and Greece, the conditions for a competitive market for the provision of services and products for the Bro are not very good. 
In addition, the Bro is atypical in relation to the contract terms for economic operators in Malta as a customer, since they mostly lack the capacitates in order to meet the requirements associated with more extensive contracts of the Bros. 
3.20.10.-3.20.12. and 3.20.19. 
This characteristic is essential for the understanding of the high level of administrative support and the extremely complex environment when it comes to introducing functioning internal control structures. 
In addition, it should be noted that due to its operational capacity, its geographically wide range of operations and (as the Court correctly notes) the constraints in the use of Member State experts depend on contractors to an unsatisfactory extent. 
This is a factor that causes a multiplication of the tasks associated with procurement and finance (including decentralised financial actors), as for locations in Greece, Italy and Cyprus 
De 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/127 and specific contracts for hotspots in Greece and Italy (leasing, cleaning, security, water supply and essential services, e.g. providing temporary and interpreting services) are required. 
In this case too, the staff is of crucial importance, and the Bro prft is currently (in recognition of the multiplication factor due to its capacity as an agency with several locations) the possibility to allocate the necessary resources to ensure overall accuracy and quality, legality and regularity in the procurement and financial cycles, and to have the decentralisation carried out by a consulting firm. 
3.20.14., 3.20.15. and 3.20.16. 
The Bro acknowledges the need to have internal legal expertise and accepts this necessity. 
In addition, the Bro agrees with the finding that legal services must always strictly represent the interests of the Bros and not the interests of individuals (which does not exclude each other). 
The Bro insists that the inclusion of external legal services has not been adequately controlled. 
As the Court notes in its report, internal investigations on this matter continue and the results are communicated to the Court. 
3.20.17. and 3.20.26. 
The Bro accepts the comments. 
These remedial measures were initiated immediately after the Court found the irregularity in its 2016 Prf Report (introduction of the Court's report in September 2017). 
Regrettably, however, due to the time limits and the fact that the Bro replaced the contract as quickly as possible after the finding of its non-compliance, it was indeed due to payments under the contract in 2017. 
3.20.18. and 3.20.19. 
The Broch accepts the comments and recalls that these problems can be seen as a result of insufficient resources and the constraints in internal control and management, which the Court has all identified in its report. 
3.20.23.-3.20.25. 
As the Court notes in our report, an internal investigation of this matter is currently taking place. 
3.20.29.-3.20.31. 
3.20.32. 
As regards the last paragraph of the report (43), the Bro has some doubts as it carried out its activity in 2016 in line with the agreements with DG BUDG. 
The Bro has consulted DG BUDG on this matter in order to clarify this issue again and will take immediate action if DG BUDG should change its previously communicated position. 
De C 434/128 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.21. 
EUROPEAN CENTRE FR PREURVENTION AND DISEASE CONTROL (ECDC) INTRODUCTION 3.21.1. 
The European Centre for the Prevention and Control of Diseases (hereinafter 'adas Centre', also known as 'aECDC'), established in Stockholm by Regulation (EC) No 851/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (167). 
It is also intended to coordinate the Europe-wide networking of bodies in this area. 
3.21.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Centre (168). 
Table Main figures for the Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) 58 total staff at 31. 1 December (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 58 260 PRFILITIES 3.21.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Centre consisting of the annual accounts(169) and the reports on budget implementation (170) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.21.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Centre for the 31st of December December 2017 end year the centre's merging and financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 142, 30.4.2004, p. 1. 
(168) Further information about the needs and activities of the Centre can be found on its website www.ecdc.europa.eu. 
(169) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(170) Reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as hauling. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/129 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.21.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.21.6. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.21.7. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
C 434/130 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Year 2015 2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) Completed (1) Completed (2) ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations We found several factors affecting the transparency of the audited procurement procedures, such as the absence of a clear bond with the Centre's annual work programme, insufficient underpinning of the contract value or the absence of a financial benchmark (threshold) to assess the financial capacity of the tenderer. 
In May 2015, the interim director of the Centre was appointed by a decision of the Management Board. 
At 31. In December 2016, this appointment exceeded the maximum period of one year provided for in the Staff Regulations by eight months. 
In addition, this resulted in 15 additional transit arrangements for other staff members. 
In its October 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted that, despite the Centre's ongoing efforts to tighten its internal procurement controls, there are still significant levels of procurement. 
The IAS concluded that the planning and monitoring of procurement procedures are weak and that procurement procedures are not always covered by the annual work programme or a financing decision. 
In addition, reference is made to the Court's report on the Centre's 2015 accounts and to the identified amounts that affect the transparency of procurement procedures. 
The Centre and the IAS agreed on a plan for correction measures. 
As in previous years, the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year for Title III (operational expenditure) was 7.9 million euro and 41 % (2015: 7.5 million euros and 42 % respectively. 
The funding was mainly related to multi-year projects in the fields of scientific advice (2.4 million euro), surveillance (1.3 million euro), public health training (1.4 million euro) and IT applications for public health (EUR 2.1 million). 
The Centre may take into account the introduction of separate budgets in order to better reflect the multi-dimensional nature of the activities and the inevitable distortions between signatures, deliveries and payments. 
(1) (2) Following a selection procedure, the interim director was appointed Director in 2017. 
The Centre has introduced new IT tools to improve the planning and monitoring of procurement procedures. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/131 ANNEX OF THE CENTRUMS The Centre takes note of the Court's report. 
De C 434/132 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.22. 
EUROPEAN BEH RDE FR FOOD SAFETY (EFSA) INTRODUCTION 3.22.1. 
Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council(171) was established by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council(171). 
3.22.2. 
The table contains the most important figures for the Behrde (172). 
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 81 total staff at 31. December (2) 443 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Behrde. EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 79 443 PRFILITIES 3.22.3. 
We have a) the annual accounts of the Behrde, consisting of the annual accounts(173) and the reports on budget implementation (174) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). Exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.22.4. 
L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1. 
(172) Further information about the circumstances and activities of the Behrde can be found on their website www.efsa.europa.eu. 
(173) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(174) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarised by the appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/133 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.22.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.22.6. 
3.22.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE 3.22.8. 
Head of the Accounting Officer of Behrde is the Head of the Department of Administration/Corporate Services. 
In May 2017, the Behrde concluded three framework agreements in the cascade system on behalf of nine agencies participating in the open call for tenders covering a wide range of inspection services. 
Although agency-wide procurement procedures offer a good opportunity to increase administrative efficiency, in the case of procurement procedures where the concrete deliverables are not known at the time of the call for tenders, framework agreements reopening competition for each individual contract are better suited to achieving good cost-benefits as framework agreements in the cascade system. 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.22.10. 
The Commission's Internal Audit Service submitted in 2017 a review report on the procedure for the evaluation of regulated products/the assessment phase for the authorisation of pesticides (175). 
The Behrde is currently preparing an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.22.11. 
The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. (175) The court did not review these inspections. 
C 434/134 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from the Court's previous years' observations The Behrde has not yet implemented a clear and comprehensive ex post financial control strategy covering all areas of activity and defined in the scope and scope of these controls. 
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the controls in place for IT project management were adequate, but pointed to significant levels of IT governance. 
EFSA and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. Year 2015 2016 Status of the corrective measure (completed/current/pending/e.g.) 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/135 ANNEX OF THE BEH RDE 3.22.4. 
EFSA welcomes the Court's unrestricted rulings on the reliability of the accounting and the legality and regularity of the assets underlying the annual accounts. 
3.22.8. 
In order to ensure the independence of the accounting officer, the formal requirement laid down in EFSA's financial regulations is implemented by EFSA as follows: The current accounting officer was appointed by the EFSA Management Board in 2008. 
The accounting officer is under the authority of the head of the BuS department. In order to ensure the functional independence of the accounting officer in the procedures for appraisal of performance, the Head of the BuS Department shall act as an assessor and the Chair of the Audit Committee shall act as countersigning staff. 
The accounting officer may be removed from office at any time by the Board of Directors. 
3.22.9. 
There is no obligation to use the model of individual invitations to tender and both models may be appropriate depending on the scenario. 
EFSA considers that individual calls for standard services to be tendered for competition are again more appropriate and are used in EFSA contracts for statistical services, systematic literature review and target group research. 
EFSA uses the cascade model when a long-term contractual relationship is in the foreground. 
In particular, in the case of the framework contract for external inspection services, the main aim is to ensure (i) an adequate understanding of EFSA's activities, (ii) a consistent testing method and (iii) credibility at all levels of administration. 
EFSA has control over the budget for proposals made by the contractor in the cascade system. 
3.22.10. 
EFSA will implement the action plan for the evaluation of regulated products/the evaluation phase for the approval of pesticides in accordance with the IAD testing. 
De C 434/136 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.23. 
EUROPEAN INSTITUTE FR GENDER EQUALITY (EIGE) INTRODUCTION 3.23.1. 
The European Institute for Gender Equal Opportunities (hereinafter referred to as 'aEIGE'), established in Vilnius, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1922/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (176). 
3.23.2. 
The table contains the most important figures for the Institute (177). 
Table Main figures for the Institute 2017 Budget (million euro) 8 total staff at 31. (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 8 45 PRFILITIES 3.23.3. 
We have a) the annual accounts of the institution consisting of the annual accounts (178) and the reports on budget implementation (179) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.23.4. According to our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts for the 31st December 2017 end year the institution's merging and financial position as at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. (176) OJ 
(177) Further information about the needs and activities of the Institute can be found on its website www.eige.europa.eu. 
(178) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(179) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views which summarise merciful revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/137 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.23.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.23.6. 
3.23.7. 
The following observations do not call into question the Court's assessment. COMMENTS ON RECHTMEURSCURITY AND ORDERALITY OF VORGEURNGE 3.23.8. 
At the end of the financial year 2017, the Institute was defendant in four disputes brought before the General Court by unsuccessful bidders in connection with three procurement procedures. 
In each of those cases, the applicant applied for the annulment of the award decision and the award of damages. 
The claim for damages claimed in these four cases amounts to EUR 700 000 or 9 % of the annual budget of the Institute. 
According to the evaluation of the Institute's external lawyer, a position of EUR 75 000 (or 1 % of the Institute's annual budget) was recorded in Hhe to cover the expected losses. 
The judgment delivered by the General Court in each of these cases will rule on the legality and regularity of the procurement procedures in respect of those increases and the payments due. 
In 2016, the Institute launched an open invitation to tender for travel services. 
The service descriptions and the evaluation process did not provide a sufficient guarantee for the best price-performance marriage. 
The award formula and pricing mechanism were unsuitable as they did not allow for an appropriate assessment of the tenders submitted by the tenderers. 
The framework agreement was concluded for a maximum duration of four years and a maximum amount of EUR 700 000. 
In 2017, payments were made in Hhe of EUR 137 000. 
3.23.10. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (180) (181). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017, the Institute had introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures, but not the electronic tendering and electronic submission of tenders. 
3.23.11. 
The Institute publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and make it possible for Brgers to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies. 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.23.12. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented an audit report on the management of relations with stakeholders and external communication" (182) by EIGE. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.23.13. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(180) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(181) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(182) The court did not review these inspections. 
C 434/138 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 Completed DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court's observations of 1.7 million euro and 51 % (2015: The rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) for Title III (operational expenditure) remained high, mainly due to annual studies. 
The Institute may take into account the introduction of separate budgetary resources in order to better reflect the multi-year nature of the activities and the inevitable distortions between signatures, deliveries and payments. 
In 2016, the Institute launched an open call for tenders for a framework contract for the maintenance and updating of its tools and sources for gender statistics with a maximum amount of 1.6 million euros. 
At the request of a tenderer, the Institute made it clear on its website that the maximum amount per lot was EUR 800 000. 
However, two separate framework contracts were concluded with the same tenderer for a maximum amount of EUR 1.6 million per lot, with the option of extending the betrge by up to 50 % per lot, allowing the institution to close the total duration of the framework contract (up to four years) for up to EUR 4.8 million or three times the amount specified in the contract notice. 
In 2016, payments were made in Hhe of EUR 87 920. 
In response to the inspection, the Institute signed Nachtrge on both frameworkverts, which reduced the heft rate to EUR 800 000 each (with a potential increase by a maximum of 50 %). 
The invitation to tender in the context of a negotiated procedure with a single tenderer for the procurement of services for the maintenance and support of IT tools and databases was limited to EUR 81 000 (excluding VAT) for all three services described and it was stipulated that tenders would not be taken into account. 
However, after receiving tenders for two of the three requested services, the Institute concluded a service contract with a price of EUR 97 410. 
In 2016, payments were made in Hhe of EUR 73 057. Year 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/139 DE Court's observations In January 2016, the Institute published its external evaluation. 
Year 2016 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) In progress 
De C 434/140 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANNEX OF THE INSTITUTE 3.23.8. 
The EIGE took note of the comment. 
The EIGE has investigated the weaknesses and will adjust the tendering procedures, regardless of the court's judgments in these cases, to minimise the risk of tough litigation and potential dissatisfaction among rejected candidates. 
3.23.9. 
The EIGE takes note of the remark and stresses that internal controls are in place to monitor and monitor the pricing of flight and hotel accommodation submitted by the contractor. 
EIGE will raise this issue in the network of EU Agencies with the aim of exchanging examples of best practice. 
In addition, the EIGE expressed an interest in participating in a joint tender procedure organised by the Commission services (PMO). 
Following the award of this contract, the EIGE intends not to accept its existing framework contract for the provision of services in the areas of travel, accommodation and services. 
The comprehensive set-up of these modules in the EIGE is expected in the third and fourth quarters of 2018. 
In view of the limited number of procedures and the high costs associated with the services, the EIGE has decided not to pursue this option in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on Economic and Monetary Affairs. 
Taking into account the costs incurred for the provision of job titles in all 24 official languages of the EU and the fact that, due to their specificity, some vacancies are recommended by the publication of other job vacancies, the EIGE considers that the Kanle currently used for the publication of its vacancies provides adequate transparency and publicity. 
3.23.12. 
In line with the recommendations made in the Prf report, the EIGE has drawn up an action plan which is regularly reviewed and updated. 
The agreed deadline for the implementation of all measures air on 31. December 2018 out, and the implementation is already well advanced. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/141 3.24. 
EUROPEAN MEDICINES AGENCY (EMA) INTRODUCTION 3.24.1. 
The European Medicines Agency (hereinafter the Agency), also established in London, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, replaced by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council(183). 
3.24.2. 
Table Main figures on the Agency's budget (million euro) total staff at 31. December (2) 2017 331 (1) 766 2016 305 768 (1) Fixed budget. The final budget depends on the revenue generated from fees and fees in 2017. 
We have a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (185) and the reports on budget implementation (186) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.24.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
(183) OJ. 
(184) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.ema.europa.eu. 
(185) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(186) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as convulsions. 
De C 434/142 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.24.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.24.6. 
Emphasis on a situation 3.24.7. 
The London-based agency has drawn up its preliminary annual accounts and the desired summons on the basis of the information available at the time of signature (1 June 2018). 
3.24.8. 
On 20 November 2017, the General Affairs Council of the European Union agreed to relocate the Agency's headquarters to Amsterdam, the Netherlands. 
The move to provisional ruminations is planned for early 2019, and the agency has entered its annual accounts for the associated costs in Hhe of 18.6 million euros. 
3.24.9. 
In addition, the lease for the agency's current ruminations in London provides for a rental period until 2039. 
The summaries to the annual accounts show the rental costs remaining until 2039 at EUR 489 million. Of this amount, a maximum amount of EUR 465 million is reported as a contingent liability for the remaining rental period after the Agency's planned move to Amsterdam. 
3.24.10. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE 3.24.11. 
At the agency, the head of the financial department is the manager of the accounting officer. 
3.24.12. 
The Agency has also been restructured twice since 2014 and has been entrusted with new extensive tasks at the same time (see paragraphs 3.24.15 to 3.24.17). Although these events resulted in EUR changes in the Agency's procedures and accounting system, the accounting system has not been re-validated since 2013. COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.24.13. 
The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow Brgers to view vacancies issued by the various EU agencies and bodies. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/143 3.24.14. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (187) (188). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
By the end of 2017, the Agency had implemented the electronic invitation to tender for certain procedures, but not e-invoicing and electronic submission of tenders. 
Management of consulting services 3.24.15. 
Last year, it was checked how the agency manages advisory services. Two selected projects for the implementation of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (189)) and the Clinical Test Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (190)) which required the development of complex EU-wide networks for which extensive technical IT developments were necessary. 
Since the number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan was not increased, which would enable it to develop the necessary expertise internally, the Agency used advisory firms to carry out these tasks. 
However, the excessive use of consulting firms has led to the Agency being dependent on this external expertise in critical terms. 
3.24.16. 
In order to bring the projects under their control, the Agency determined which functions should not be assigned externally, but must be performed internally. 
In addition, the Agency is committed to awarding consultants no longer according to the criteria of time and resources, but on a fixed price basis. 
It also established a more appropriate procedure for approving project changes. 
3.24.17. 
It will take time to reduce the critical adequacy of the agency of consulting firms, and the impact of the measures taken will only show up in the years. 
One of the two major projects tested in 2016, the Pharmacovigilance Project (EudraVigilance Database on Unexpected Drug Effects), was completed in 2017 with additional costs of around EUR 0.5 million. 
The clinical testing project is still underway. A date for commissioning was not fixed, but the budget was again increased by another 4.9 million euros (191) in 2017. 
Originally planned date of commissioning Planned date of commissioning 31. December 2016 actual/planned date of commissioning 31. December 2017 Original budget (euro) Budget on 31 December 2017 December 2016 (Euro) 3 rd quarter 2015 4th quarter 2017 4th quarter 2017 3.7 million 14.3 million 1st quarter 20 173 rd quarter 2018 not specified 6.1 million 24.3 million EudraVigilance database on unpredictable drug operations Clinical inspections and EU database REPORTS OF INTERNATIONAL Audit Service Budget on 31. December 2017 (Euro) 14.8 million 29.2 million 3.24.18. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service examined how the Agency implements the Pharmacovigilance Remuneration Regulation (192)(193). The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. 
(187) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(188) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
L 316, 14.11.2012, p. 38. 
L 158, 27.5.2014, p. 1. 
(191) In 2018, this project was merged with a new project (SUSAR CTIS Information Systems for Clinical Testing). The estimated total budget amounts to 34.3 million euros. 
(192) Regulation (EU) No 658/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(193) The court did not review these inspections. De C 434/144 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REQUIREMENT OF NOTES from previous years 3.24.19. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/145 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In the Regulation on the Agency's fees, the deadlines for the collection of the fees of candidates and the related payments of the Agency to the relevant national authorities(1) are set out. For most of the farm-tested advances, these deadlines were not met. 
In 2014, the Agency carried out an administrative procedure against its staff responsible for Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). 
Since the introduction of a new IT accounting system in 2011, reporting on the obligations has not been transparent enough. 
The Agency concluded agreements with 25 hotels in London on business tariffs for the accommodation of experts without conducting a competitive tendering procedure. 
The six agreements on business tariffs and the 2016 payments based thereon, amounting to approximately 2.1 million euros, are therefore illegal. 
In 2014, the Commission concluded, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), a framework contract with a contractor for the acquisition of software and licences as well as related IT maintenance and consulting services. 
In 2016, payments totalling EUR 8.9 million were made to the contractor of the framework contract. 
The Agency did not systematically compare the prices and discounts calculated with the supplier's tenders and did not systematically review the invoices issued to the contractor of the framework contract. 
C 434/146 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Court's observations Since 2014, the Agency has been fundamentally restructured twice, with high and medium management positions being re-allocated internally. 
The reallocation of key IT and administrative staff was not successful, putting the Agency and its activities at a significant risk of unstableness. 
In addition, there is no system for analysing the available skills, identifying gaps and recruiting and assigning suitable employees. 
The Court analysed how the agency used consulting services within the framework of two major projects, in addition to the annual audit work carried out for all agencies, in addition to the annual audit work carried out for all agencies. 
The Parliament and the Council entrusted the Agency with the implementation of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012) and the Clinical Testing Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 536/2014), which requires the development of complex EU-wide networks. 
These tasks were entrusted to the Agency at a time when it was expected, in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline of 2. December 2013 to reduce their staff. 
The number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan has not been increased, which allows you to gain the necessary expertise in the fields of business and IT development. 
Extensive use of external consultants Since the agency had only 13 employees in its IT delivery department, it used the services of consulting companies in the areas of business analysis, information technology, project management and quality assurance. 
In the second quarter of 2016, 131 consultants were on site and 60 other consultants outside of their rumours. 
The Agency is therefore dependent on external expertise since the beginning of the projects in critical terms, but does not have a strategy that regulates the use of consultants. 
Insufficient control of project development and implementation When the Agency was entrusted with the new tasks in 2012 and 2014, it did not have an appropriate method for managing projects under this Regulation. 
In 2014, a new method was introduced, which had to be implemented significantly in September 2016. 
In progress (see paragraphs [3.24.15-3.24.17]) 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/147 DE observations of the Court In several cases deviating from the planned activities or the envisaged approach before this was approved on the basis of formal EUR change. 
All external consultants were closed until mid-2016 on the basis of time and resources, although the project services were clearly defined. 
During the development of the systems, the Agency was confronted with distortions and cost increases. 
The large number of EUR changes in project size, budget and deadlines were mainly due to repeated adjustments to the system requirements that met the changing needs of the Member States(2). 
The table below lists two major projects as examples. Initial planned date of entry into service of the original budget (Euro) on 31 October 2016 EudraVigilance-Data bank on unexistent medicines and quarter 3 rd quarter of 2015 3.7 million 14.3 million clinical trials and EU database 1st quarter 2017 3,1 million 24.3 million 24.3 million The Grndung Regulation requires the Commission to carry out an external evaluation of the Agency and its activities every ten years. 
Due to such a long period of time, it is not possible that the interested parties receive a timely feedback on the performance. 
Date of adoption of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 2016 In progress (1) Ordinance on the fees of the Agency, Articles 10(1) and 11(1). 
(2) Telematics management bodies in which Member States are represented in order to develop and approve the requirements for future IT systems. 
De C 434/148 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.24.8. 
3.24.11. 
The Agency adheres to EMA's financial rules: The accounting officer is already appointed by the Board of Directors pursuant to Article 50(1) of the EMA Financial Regulations, and in addition, the Board of Directors has adopted an extensive charter of the tasks and responsibilities of the accounting officer. 
The fullness statement signed by the Accounting Officer and the Administrative Director still extends this indebtedness. 
The validation of the Agency's accounting systems was started in March 2018. 
3.24.13. 
The EMA offers transparency and publicity, as it publishes or has access to it, depending on the profile on the EMA website, LinkedIn, agency-absorbing jobs or in specialist publications. 
As a result, the EMA attracts great interest among applicants throughout the EU. Some competitions involved more than 1 000 candidates. 
Furthermore, the general rules governing the recruitment and use of temporary staff states that the selection notices for temporary agents referred to in Article 2(f) of the CEOS are published only in the working languages of the agencies; On the other hand, agencies that do not have a fixed working language publish the selection notices in all the official languages of the European Union. 
Following a decision by the Administrative Director, the EMA's working language has been English since June 2015. 
However, EPSO has informed EMA that, in order to be published on its website, it will continue to require the EMA to post the vacancy notices in all official EU languages and make these language versions available on the EMA website. 
It should be noted that the invitation to tender of posts in all EU official languages has a significant impact on the duration of the competitions and entails a higher cost. 
3.24.14. 
By the end of 2017, the Agency had introduced the electronic invitation to tender for all procedures above the specified limit and the e-mail alert for all procedures below the specified limit. 
Although the Agency did not introduce e-invoicing or electronic submission of tenders, in September 2017, the Agency signed an agreement with the European Commission on access to and use of the electronic submission of tenders, awaiting an appointment by the European Commission. 
The Agency welcomes the Court's acknowledgement that the EMA has implemented several important measures to respond to the Court's observations from the 2016 audit regarding the management of advisory services. 
The two projects examined indicate that further budgetary resources were needed due to the complexity of the cosystem of interested parties and of the system to be set up. 
This EUR amendment request was submitted and approved under the portfolio scheme. The project status was obtained extensively with the Board of Directors of EMA. 
3.24.18. 
The Agency takes note of the comment. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/149 3.25. 
EUROPEAN OBSERVATORY FR DRUGS AND DRUG ADDICTION (EMCDDA) INTRODUCTION 3.25.1. 
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (hereinafter 'the Observatory', also known as 'AEBDDDD'), established in Lisbon by Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (194). 
The main task of the Centre is to collect, analyse and disseminate information on drug and drug addiction issues with the aim of compiling and publishing objective, exclusive and comparable information at European level. 
3.25.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Observatory (195). 
Table Main figures for the Observatory 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 16 total staff at 31. December (2) 111 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Observatory. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL PRESENTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNCIL 2016 15 101 PRFUNGSURP 3.25.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Centre consisting of the annual accounts(196) and the reports on budget implementation (197) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.25.4. According to our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts are presented on 31 December. December 2017 end year of the Centre's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
(194) OJ 
(195) Further information on the needs and activities of the Centre can be found on its website www.emcdda.europa. eu. 
(196) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net mix, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(197) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarised by appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.25.6. 
3.25.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.25.8. 
At the Observatory, the Head of the Administration/Corporate Services Department is the head of the Accounting Officer. 
3.25.10. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (198) (199). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.25.11. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on the management of data collection, validation and quality assurance (200) by the Observatory. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.25.12. 
(198) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Art. 79 e-government. 
(199) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(200) The court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/151 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In 2012, the Centre signed a framework contract with a maximum amount of EUR 250 000 in order to sign individual contracts. 
At the end of 2015, the total payments under this contract amounted to EUR 382 181, i.e. the ceiling exceeded by 50 %. 
In the case of two frameworks with a maximum value of EUR 135 000 or EUR 650 000, a staff member of the Observatory acted at the time of setting up the evaluation committee, the decisions concerning the appropriation and the signature of the contract as a full authorising officer. 
However, the delegation of powers exercised by the authorising officer was limited to EUR 130 000 and the scope was not explicitly identified. 
In 2016, payments were made in Hhe of EUR 35 310. 
In its January 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the need for the Observatory to improve the management of IT projects. 
In particular, the IAS concluded that there is a lack of a long-term overall strategic vision for the IT systems supporting the Centre's central operational discharge, that the Centre's IT project management methodology was only partially adapted to its needs, and that the procedure for managing system requirements is incessant. 
The Observatory and the IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. 
De C 434/152 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 RESPONSIBLE 3.25.8. The Centre considers that the current organisational structure has not affected the independence of its accounting directors. 
On the contrary, this independence has been consistently ensured in accordance with the relevant rules, in particular through the appointment of the auditors by the Centre's Management Board, the functional reporting and accountability of those auditors over the Management Board and careful compliance with the rules on the separation of the tasks of the various financial actors of the Centre. 
In this context, the Observatory is ready to comply with the Court's recommendation, ensuring that the corresponding measures are in an appropriate manner to the organisation's size and that the effectiveness and efficiency of its functioning is maintained. 
3.25.9. 
The Observatory also publishes its vacancy notices by means of dissemination through the members of its governing bodies, the national contact points involved in Reitox and the EU agencies. 
In addition, the Centre's next selection procedures will also be published on the agency portal for job vacancies; the network of EU Agencies has developed this common online platform to ensure that the recruitment procedures of the agencies are publicised. 
In this context, the Centre will examine the cost-benefit of an additional publication on the EPSO portal. 
The Observatory meets the requirements for e-procurement in line with the EU's desirable legal framework and the timetable for the introduction of e-procurement procedures in the EU. 
Already in August 2015, the Observatory, in cooperation with the relevant services of the European Commission, set up the technical configuration/ICT tool for electronic invoicing (and provided by DG DIGIT of the European Commission to implement DG DIGIT). 
In addition, in 2017, the Observatory planned the preparatory measures necessary to be able to use the modules of the electronic call for tenders and the electronic submission of tenders pursuant to the aforementioned legal framework from October 2018. 
The implementation of this plan is ongoing and the Observatory assumes that it will comply with this deadline without major problems. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/153 3.26. 
EUROPEAN AGENCY FR THE OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF LARGE-SCALE IT SYSTEMS IN THE AREA OF FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE (EU-LISA) INTRODUCTION 3.26.1. 
The European Agency for the Operational Management of IT-Gro§systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (eu-LISA) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) with headquarters in Tallinn and sites in Stra§burg and St. Johann im Pongau was established by Regulation (EU) No 1077/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (201). 
The Agency's central mission is the operational management of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), the Visa Information System (VIS) and the European system for the comparison of fingerprints (Eurodac). 
3.26.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (202). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 79 total staff at 31. December (2) 152 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO THE COUNCIL AND TO THE COUNCIL 82 144 PRFILITIES 3.26.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (203) and the reports on budget implementation (204) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The applicability of the invoice judgment on the eligibility of the invoice 3.26.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 286, 1.11.2011, p. 1. 
(202) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.eulisa.europa.eu. 
(203) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of the basic accounting principles and other congestion. 
(204) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarised by the appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/154 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.26.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.26.6. 
3.26.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.26.8. In 2017, the Agency encountered difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of bidders for several medium-value procurement procedures. 
3.26.9. 
The Agency currently manages three proprietary, non-integrated IT systems (SIS II, VIS and Eurodac), all of which process data on EU policies on freedom, security and justice. 
This approach prevented the Agency from achieving economies of scale and synergies between the different systems. 
The current responsibilities to extend the Agency's mandate in the coming years to the management of several additional IT systems underpin the growing urgency of this problem. 
The Agency, in consultation with the Commission and the Member States, should prepare a detailed cost-benefit analysis to contribute to a discussion on the future development strategy for the systems. 
3.26.10. 
The project for the construction of a new building at the Stra§burg site was considerably distorted. 
Although the Agency had already paid the full price for the construction work in 2016, these were still not completed at the end of 2017, and the progress reports on the work taken were only about 70 % of the works. 
Part of the Agency's staff has already moved into the new booth, although the work is still ongoing. 
The Agency and the Contractor shall blame each other for the distortions. The contractor lodged financial claims to the Agency in December 2017 and filed an action. 
The Agency shall make its own legal claim against the Contractor (205). 
3.26.11. 
3.26.12. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (206) (207). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
Advice 3.26.13. 
The Agency mainly uses consulting services in connection with IT projects due to the nature of its activity. 
According to the Agency's records, IT projects were implemented within the financial and timeframe in 2017. 
Exception reports have been drawn up for the few development maintenance projects, which are slightly behind the schedule. 
(205) See also the Agency's 2017 annual accounts, Section 2.1.5 aEvents after the reporting date. (206) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Art. 79 e-government. 
(207) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/155 3.26.14. 
The Agency uses a outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, in which around 90 % of the corresponding work is carried out by contractors. 
There are three main framework agreements with three consortia, one for each system. 
The payments made for these framework agreements in 2017 amounted to EUR 3 million for Eurodac, EUR 16 million for SIS II and EUR 13 million for VIS. 
Although all phases of the IT projects, from the definition of the requirements and the milestones to the start-up of new system components, are owned and controlled by the Agency, a model in which the development of such sensitive IT systems is outsourced to this extent poses significant risks with regard to an excessive subsistence from the contractors. 
This is all the more so given the limited number of potential contractors, which are limited from operational and security-related limits, who can deal with systems of this type and these requirements. 
3.26.15. 
At the same time, the low number of staff in operational key units, especially in the Application Management and Maintenance Unit (AMM), poses a significant risk to the continuity of operations. 
In the second half of 2017, the Head of Unit AMM also held the post of Head of the Operational Department and the Head of the Department of Operations and Infrastructure, thus uniting the three highest management positions in the Operational Department, which entails further risks for the continuit. 
3.26.16. 
The framework agreements concluded with the respective consortia for the operation of the main IT systems include not only normal maintenance, but also development maintenance work, the price of which cannot be calculated on the basis of the costs included in the framework agreements. 
The Agency shall calculate the prices for the individual percentages on the basis of a combination of fixed price and estimated time and budget, aiming at sound cost control. 
FR the VIS contract was also based on the method of IFPUG(208), a standard method based on the function point analysis to determine prices for development. 
The agency could also use the IFPUG method for other systems. 
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.26.17. 
The Agency committed global commitments for a total of EUR 69.9 million in order to cover future expenditure on new tasks and IT systems originally to be transferred to it in 2017, but for which the legal basis had not yet been adopted by the end of the year (Eurodac recast and allocation system to Dublin) or shortly before (Regulation on the Entry/Exit System of 30 November 2017). 
The corresponding payment appropriations were reduced by two amending budgets in a height of 85.6 million euro, from 153.3 million euro in the original budget to 85.6 million euro in the final adopted budget. 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.26.18. 
In December 2017, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) submitted to the Commission a review report on the control of procurement procedures at eu-LISA (209). 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.26.19. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(208) International Function Point Users Group. (209) The court did not review these inspections. 
C 434/156 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE 2013 State of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations by the Court of Auditors of the Agency's Grndung Ordinance, Lnder, associated with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis and Eurodac-related measures, contribute to the Agency's budget. 
The Agency concluded a framework contract of EUR 2 million for procurement services provided by a contractor for third-party training, coaching and learning services (training offers). 
In 2016, the Agency received and accepted goods worth 2.8 million euro for which there were no commitments and legal obligations (contracts). 
2015 (not under the Agency's control) Opening 2015 2015 2016 In progress (not under the agency's control) pending n.e.c. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/157 DE Court's observations The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded in its July 2016 audit report that the overall structure and practical implementation of the procedures required eu-LISA to operate the SIS II, VIS and Eurodac IT systems in a way that enables the national authorities using these systems to exchange data continuously and without interruption. 
For Title II (Administrative Expenditure), the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year is 5 million euro and 63 % of committed appropriations (2015: 9 million euros or 50 % respectively. 
In June 2015, the agency concluded a construction contract for EUR 21.5 million for its rumours in Stra§burg. 
At one of the meetings of the Agency's Management Board in 2016, the representative of the Commission raised the problem of increasing maintenance costs. 
While the increasing costs can be explained, for example, by the ongoing development and the extended functions of the systems, the Court identified procurement procedures where the Agency did not verify that the most costly solution had been selected. 
For example, under a framework contract, the Agency purchased a new software license for EUR 4.6 million without ascertaining whether the contractor of the framework contract, acting as an intermediary between the Agency and potential software suppliers, had achieved the best price. 
In May 2016, the Agency concluded a framework contract of EUR 194 million with a consortium covering the development and maintenance of the Visa Information System (VIS) and the Biometric Matching System (BMS) over a period of up to six years. 
Year 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
C 434/158 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Our observations On behalf of the Commission, an external evaluation of the Agency was carried out by the Agency until December 2015; the results were presented in the final evaluation report in March 2016. 
The evaluators issued 64 recommendations to further improve operational management; seven of these recommendations are considered of critical importance and 11 are very important. 
The Agency has drawn up a plan to follow the recommendations; this plan is currently being implemented. Year 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.c.) n.e.c. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/159 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.26.8. 
In the case of medium value procurement procedures, the Agency shall systematically publish ex ante notices on its website in accordance with Article 103(2) of the Financial Regulation. 
In December 2017, the Commission presented two proposals for a regulation establishing a framework for interoperability between EU information systems (in the areas of borders and visas, police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration). 
In addition, as part of the revision of the Agency's mandate (in the last phases to be adopted), the need for the development of interoperabilitts measures subject to the adoption of inclined legislative proposals is determined. 
The Agency has so far contributed its technical expertise and know-how to the discussions of the High Level Expert Group on Information Systems and Interoperabilitt. 
At the same time, a study (which has not yet been completed) was carried out to obtain a clear picture of the robust architecture of interoperable IT systems. 
The study also includes an impact reduction as well as a migration and integration plan for the interoperability components of existing and resilient systems. 
The agency confirms the distortion in the implementation of the construction project in Stra§burg. 
The relocation of the staff to the new Brogebude took place after early acceptance of the work. 
The construction work in the other building concerns the data center and is still ongoing. 
For legal support for this construction contract, the agency signed a contract with an external law firm. 
She points out that it also publishes job vacancies on the website of the EU Agencies' network and on the website aEU Training. 
However, additional financial resources are needed to take account of EPSO's language regime, which requires vacancy notices to be replaced in all EU languages (e.g. the cost of placing a vacancy notice in all EU languages is EUR 12 000). 
As regards electronic submission of tenders, due to technical problems, the tool could not be used on the platform managed by Commission DG DIGIT; like other agencies, the Agency was therefore unable to deploy the platform in 2017. 
Once the platform is stable, the Agency intends to use it for its procurement. 
3.26.13. 
The Agency takes note of the findings. The Agency strives to further reduce the number of projects behind the schedule and has therefore started implementing measures to improve the planning process (see also finding 3.26.16). 
According to the Agency's key performance indicators (point 22) in the 2017 consolidated annuality report, an actual value of 8.79 % for the completed projects against the parameters quality, cost and time is 8.79 %, which is within the target of 10 %. 
In addition, in 2017, the project management method of eu-LISA was adapted and updated to bring it in line with the strategy and method PRINCE2. 
Critically, an Enterprise Project Management tool has also been introduced to facilitate better reporting and resource allocation across the agency. 
3.26.14. 
The Agency confirms the high level of participation of external contractors in IT projects (operative and organisational). 
This high outsourcing rate is directly linked to the Commission Communication COM(2013) 519 on the financial and human resources planning for decentralised agencies for the 2014-2020 period. 
When the Agency was established in 2012, the establishment plan did not provide sufficient posts for the scope of the tasks assigned to it. 
In addition, the scope of the Agency's tasks has been significantly increased from 2013 onwards; however, their requests for additional staff were rejected and the Agency had to reduce staff (a total of seven posts), as requested by the Commission Communication. 
In order to ensure proper separation of tasks, the contractors involved in quality assurance do not provide any external support services for the operational management of IT-Gro§systems. 
The Agency acknowledges this exceptional situation in which a staff member had to carry out additional tasks. 
The appointment was compulsorily due to the long absence of the head of the Operational Division and the ongoing recruitment procedure for the further free management position. 
In order to remedy the situation, the Agency appointed another employee, the Head of Unit aSecurity, as the head of the aOperations and Infrastructure Unit, until the newly recruited manager took up its activity on 1 July 2018. 
De C 434/160 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.26.16. 
System developments can only be described in summary when launching the call for tenders, which is why specific developments must be negotiated as soon as the requirements are known (e.g. when the legal basis of the systems changes). 
As part of the review of its procurement strategy, the Agency will deal with the procurement options, including the adoption of the IFPUG method, in order to reduce the adequacy of a single contractor in the event of further developments. 
The action plan for the audit of procurement procedures carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) in 2017 includes elements relevant to this remark. 
3.26.17. 
The scenario and the associated risks have already been identified in 2016 and included in the Agency's estimates of revenue and expenditure for 2017. 
Due to distortions in the adoption of the legal basis of the new tasks, the Board of Directors was regularly informed about the risks and the risks involved in the adoption of major global obligations throughout the year. 
3.26.18. 
The Agency agrees with this information. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/161 3.27. 
EUROPEAN BODY FR JUDICIAL COOPERATION (EUROJUST) INTRODUCTION 3.27.1. 
By Council Decision 2002/187/JHA(210), the European Judicial Cooperation Unit (hereinafter 'aEurojust') was established, with its registered office in The Hague, in order to strengthen the challenge of serious organised crime. 
3.27.2. 
The table contains the main figures for Eurojust (211). 
Table Main figures for Eurojust 2017 Budget (million euro) 48 Total staff at 31. December (1) 242 1. The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 44 245 PRFILITIES 3.27.3. 
We have (a) Eurojust's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (212) and the reports on budget implementation (213) for the 31st quarter. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The applicability of the invoice judgment on the eligibility of the invoice 3.27.4. 
In our opinion, Eurojust's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the financial position of the entity at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 63, 6.3.2002, p. 1. 
(211) Further information on Eurojust's needs and activities can be found at www.eurojust.europa.eu. 
(212) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(213) Reports on implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/162 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.27.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.27.6. 
3.27.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.27.8. Eurojust publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.27.9. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/163 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In its 2010 report, the Court noted that a redefinition of the respective tasks and obligations between the Administrative Director and the College of Eurojust should be considered in order to avoid the curtailment of the conditions currently deriving from the Grndung Regulation. 
With EUR 6 446 530 or 40 % (2015: 1.6 million euro and 22 % respectively, the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year was high for Title II (expenditure for supportive activities). 
These transfers mainly concerned work beyond the end of the year, as well as Kufe commissioned in preparation for the move from Eurojust to new ruminations in 2017 (EUR 4 867 482). 
Year 2011 2016 The new Eurojust Regulation is still being reviewed by the legislator. Status of the corrective measure (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) In progress (not under the control of Eurojust) n.e.c. 
De C 434/164 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANNEX OF EUROJUST 3.27.8. The statement that Eurojust does not use EPSO for recruitment is correct. 
This approach stems from financial constraints, as EPSO requires that vacancy notices be translated into all 24 official EU languages. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/165 3.28. 
EUROPEAN UNION FR AGENCY FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT COOPERATION (EUROPOL) INTRODUCTION 3.28.1. 
The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also established in The Hague, was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of the European Parliament and of the Council (214) which repeals and replaces Council Decision 2009/371/JHA (215). 
The aim of the Agency is to support and reinforce the effectiveness of the police officers and other law enforcement officers of the Member States, and their mutual cooperation in the engagement and repression of serious crime, terrorism and forms of criminality affecting two or more Member States, which infringe a common interest which is the subject of a Union policy. 
3.28.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (216). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 118 total staff at 31. 1. The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL PRESENTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL, ECA'S NOTE FROM THE UNABILITY COUNCIL 2016 104 737 PRFUNGSURPART 3.28.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (217) and the reports on budget implementation (218) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The applicability of the invoice judgment on the eligibility of the invoice 3.28.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 135, 24.5.2016, p. 53. 
L 121, 15.5.2009, p. 37. 
(216) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.europol.europa.eu. 
(217) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(218) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/166 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.28.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.28.6. 
3.28.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.28.8. The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.28.9. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on procurement at the European Police Office(219). 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.28.10. 
The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. (219) The court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/167 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations As in previous years, the rate of committed appropriations for Title II (Administrative Expenditure) for Title II (Administrative Expenditure) amounted to 3.5 million euro and 39 % respectively (2015: 4.2 million euros and 41 % respectively. 
These transfers mainly concern expenditure incurred for the Headquarters of the Office in 2016, which will only be invoiced by the host state in 2017 (2 million euro). 
Year 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.c.) n.e.c. 
De C 434/168 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANNEX OF THE AGENTUR 3.28.8. 
Europol employs more than 220 liaison officers from EU Member States and third countries and organisations. 
The common working language at Europol is English. Therefore, Europol's internal language regimes adopted by the Management Board stipulate that, unless otherwise agreed, recruitment procedures should be carried out in English. 
For this reason, Europol's vacancy notices are published in English. 
Europol has an effective and transparent recruitment process with a 0 % vacancy rate at the end of 2017. In the 89 recruitment procedures conducted in 2017, there were an average of 58 candidates per competition. 
The publication on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) is required, in addition to the English version, to be translated into the official EU languages. 
Due to the high number of vacancy notices per year, the transfer to the official EU languages would result in high costs and the duration of the procedures. 
Europol focuses on operational needs in budgetary expenditure, which is why it is only possible to place vacancy notices in all EU official languages, including EPSO's publication, in certain cases (e.g. the Executive Director or Deputy Executive Director). 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/169 3.29. 
AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION FR FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS (FRA) INTRODUCTION 3.29.1. 
The Agency of the European Union for Fundamental Rights (hereinafter referred to as the Agency, also known as aFRAU), established in Vienna, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 168/2007 (220). 
3.29.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (221). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 23 total staff at 31. (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (222) and the reports on budget implementation (223) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.29.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 53, 22.2.2007, p. 1. 
(221) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.fra.europa.eu. 
(222) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of the basic accounting principles and other congestion. 
(223) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarised by the appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/170 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.29.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.29.6. 
3.29.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.29.8. 
At the agency, the head of the Corporate Services department is the manager of the accounting officer. 
In 2017, the agency encountered difficulties in obtaining studies due to unrealistic market penetration. 
At least three open tenders were unsuccessful, as the Agency only received tenders in the necessary quality that significantly exceeded the defined maximum contract value. 
3.29.10. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (224) (225). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.29.11. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service carried out an audit in the Agency on Governance and Ethics(226). 
3.29.12. 
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance over the period 2013-2017 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (227). 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.29.13. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(224) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Art. 79 e-government. 
(225) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(226) The court did not review these inspections. 
(227) The Court did not review this evaluation work. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/171 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court's observations The explanatory delegations (or delegations of authorising officers) of authorising officers (or fully authorised authorising officers) do not always agree with the authorisation rights for advances in the ABAC Workf low module. 
EUR 5.2 million or 68 % (2015: 5.7 million euro and 70 % respectively, the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year was high for Title III (operational expenditure). 
This is primarily due to the nature of the activities to which the financing of studies that extend over several months, often also over the turn of the year. 
The Agency may draw up separate budget appropriations in order to better reflect the multi-dimensional nature of the activities and the inevitable distortions between signatures, deliveries and payments. 
2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) Completed In progress 
De C 434/172 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.29.8. 
Following the reorganisation of the Agency, which will be completed by the end of 2018, the position of the accounting officer will be subject to the Director's administrative responsibility and will be directly subordinate to the Management Board (as has always been the case). 
In order to maintain existing synergies, the accounting officer will continue to work closely with the Corporate Services department. 
3.29.9. 
All the studies concerned were advertised to the public and were therefore eligible for smuggling economic operators. 
The extensive studies carried out by FRA are quite unique in the EU, both in terms of the subject matter and the need to be carried out in all EU Member States. 
In addition, limited resources are available to the Agency for these measures. 
However, in the case of such calls for tenders, the Agency will consider conducting market research, reviewing, where appropriate, the technical requirements and reassessing the prioritisation of the studies to be carried out on the basis of practicability. 
Nevertheless, this problem would be much easier if there were more resources available for operational expenditure. 
The Agency started implementing such systems in 2018; these will be available within the time limit set. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/173 3.30. 
EUROPEAN AGENCY FR THE BORDER AND COAST GUARD (FRONTEX) INTRODUCTION 3.30.1. 
The European Border and Kstenwache Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also known as aFrontex, was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/1624 of the European Parliament and of the Council (228) (aneue Grndungverordnung), which repealed Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 (229). 
It has been strengthened, while maintaining the abbreviation aFrontexn and its headquarters in Warsaw on the basis of the European Agency for Operational Cooperation at the external borders of the Member States. 
The new Grndung Regulation extends the mandate of the Agency; in addition, the Agency is entrusted with the task of ensuring an integrated border management at the external borders at the European level in order to efficiently manage the crossing of the external borders. 
This includes the affiliation of migratory pressure and potential threats at these borders, while at the same time contributing to the suppression of serious crime with a cross-border dimension in order to ensure a high level of internal security within the Union, while respecting fundamental rights and respect for freedom in this area. 
3.30.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (230). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 281 total staff at 31. December (1) 526 (1) Staff employed by the Agency, including officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
More posts were foreseen in the 2017 final establishment plan: 352 posts for officials and temporary staff and 303 posts for contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (231) and the reports on budget implementation (232) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.30.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 251, 16.9.2016, p. 1. 
L 349, 25.11.2004, p. 1. 
(230) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.frontex.europa.eu. 
(231) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(232) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/174 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.30.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.30.6. 
Note 3.30.7. 
The Agency's expenditure on grants increased significantly from 123 million euro (2016) to 167 million euro (2017). 
Unlike in previous years, the Agency did not undergo ex post checks on expenditure related to grants in 2017. 
It takes the view that the ex-ante reviews carried out before reimbursement have been improved and now provide the necessary security as soon as they reach a certain level of coverage. 
However, since 2014, the Court has repeatedly reported that the co-operating States often provide insufficient evidence of the expenditure they declare, which was confirmed again in this year's inspection (see paragraphs 3.30.12-3.30.13). 
3.30.8. 
In 2016, the Court recommended that the Agency identify the most appropriate financing mechanism in an in-depth analysis (233). 
In this context, the Court notes that at the end of 2017, the Management Board decided to use unit costs instead of reimbursing the actual costs for operational activities. 
At the same time, a pilot project was launched in 2018 to determine unit costs for deployments sent by cooperating states. 
In addition, in June 2017, the Management Board approved a new organisational structure of the Agency, which will take effect from 2018 and include the creation of a new inspection and control bro, which directly reports to the Executive Director and the Management Board in order to adapt the existing organisation to the new mandate (see paragraph 3.30.9). 
3.30.9. 
In view of the migration crisis facing the Union, the mandate of the Agency was significantly extended in 2016. 
The Agency's budget increased by 75 % in 2016 and the budget for 2017 was again 21 % higher than in the previous year. 
Staff increased by 18 % in 2016 and 43 % year-on-year. 
The adaptation of the systems and procedures to the new mandate and the new framework is still ongoing. 
The following comments do not call into question the Court's assessment and should be read in the light of the challenges faced by the Agency. 
COMMENTS ON THE RECHTMEURSCURITY AND ORDERALITY OF VORGEURNGE 3.30.10. 
Following an open call for tenders, the Agency received four offers for the freezing of migrants within Greece. 
Following completion of the selection criteria, three tenders were retained and one excluded. 
The only award criterion was the price. 
In April 2017, the Agency signed a framework agreement of EUR 2 million for a period of three years with the company offering the lowest price. 
However, the contractor's allowances were seasonally limited and he had problems meeting the contract so that the agency opened the contract at the end of 2017. 
In order to ensure the continuity of the services, the Agency signed a new framework agreement for the remaining period of EUR 1.8 million with the bidder ranked second in November 2017, which had offered the second lowest price. 
It did not negotiate the terms of that replacement contract with the tenderers ranked second and third, but signed the new contract on the basis of the original tender submitted by the second tenderer. 
The direct award of the replacement contract was irregular because the original procurement procedure was concluded and there was no negotiated procedure for agreeing the terms of the contract until the conclusion of a new open procedure. 
No payments were made for this replacement order in 2017. 
3.30.11. 
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff will be recruited only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (234). 
In 2017, the Agency provided two staff (2016: 14) in Hheren AST grades. 
(233) Special Report No 12/2016 The use of grants by agencies: not always appropriate or proven to be effective. (234) Article 53(2) of the Staff Regulations. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/175 NOTICES TO INTERNATIONAL CONTROLLS 3.30.12. 
In 2017, the Icelandic Kstenwache Agency provided financial support in connection with the deployment of an aircraft in Greece. 
Before reimbursement of expenditure declared by Iceland, the Agency requested invoices as proof of a category of expenditure declared. 
Although the invoices were never presented, the Agency reimbursed around EUR 440 000. 
In this case, the ex-ante review was therefore ineffective. 
3.30.13. 
The Agency also co-financed the use of an aircraft used by the Spanish Guardia Civil. 
In the absence of supporting documents for the costs claimed for inspection and maintenance, the Agency reimbursed EUR 430 000 on the basis of average costs per flight hour. 
These average costs were calculated on the basis of cost ceilings used in contracts between the Spanish bidders and private contractors for inspection and maintenance work. 
There is a risk of reimbursement of costs than actually incurred. 
3.30.14. 
Although the Agency has already obtained its current Bros in 2014, it has still not drawn up a comprehensive contingency plan approved by the Management Board. 
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.30.15. 
The Agency cancelled again high committed appropriations from the previous year for reimbursement of expenditure of States participating in joint operations, in terms of 7,7 million euro and 16.5 % respectively (2016: 5.6 million euros and 17.6 % respectively. 
This shows that the co-operating States had once again overestimated the expenditure to be reimbursed by the Agency. 
Although appropriations for joint operations had to be cancelled in two consecutive years, the Agency transferred an amount of EUR 9.6 million from other budget lines to joint operations in 2017, which again transferred an amount of EUR 40.5 million to the following financial year. 
Joint actions account for 69 % of the total appropriations cancelled in 2017 (11.1 million euro) and 46 % of the total appropriations transferred to 2018 (87.6 million euro). 
3.30.16. 
In 2017, 66.5 million euros were available for return operations. However, fewer actions were carried out than funds were available. 
The Agency therefore paid the Commission 13.5 million euro or 20.3 % (2016: 23 million euros or 37.5 % respectively. 
In addition, the Agency contributed EUR 4 million to the budget budget (staff expenditure) under Title I, as not as many new staff could be recruited as planned in 2017. 
3.30.17. 
The Agency's initial budget for 2017 amounted to EUR 8.8 million for the required operational financial situation for the financing of emergency individuals for border security purposes and reverse actions (235). 
However, in September 2017 and again in October 2017, the Agency deducted 1.9 million euros (totalling EUR 3.8 million) from its operational budget to finance other activities. 
3.30.18. 
Following the implementation of transfers from other budget lines and the establishment of an amending budget, the appropriations entered in the rectangled position amounted to 24.7 million euro and 8.1 % of the original budget. 
However, the Agency mainly used it to finance standard operations (8.4 million euro) and to finance a remote-controlled air surveillance project (drones, EUR 7 million), for which it had estimated only EUR 1.1 million. 
The assessment and use of non-mandatory rectangles is incompatible with the budgetary principle of speciality and affects budgetary transparency. 
COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.30.19. The Agency publishes vacancy notices on its own website and in other media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). 
3.30.20. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (236) (237). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017, the Agency had introduced e-invoicing and electronic tendering for certain procedures, but not the electronic submission of tenders. (235) According to Article 75(13) of its Consolidation Ordinance. (236) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(237) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
De C 434/176 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REQUIREMENT OF NOTES from previous years 3.30.21. 
However, the documents provided by the cooperating States as supporting documents for the expenditure declared are not always sufficient. 
In addition, no certificates were required, although this is recommended for grants exceeding certain ceilings in the rules of application of the EU Financial Regulation (1). 
In view of the large and steady increase in the number of grant agreements and the general rules of the required expenditure to be paid and reimbursed by the Agency, the question arises as to whether more efficient and costly forms of financing could be used. 
The contributions of the Schengen Associated Countries (Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway) must be calculated more precisely in order to better comply with the legislation(3). 
The ex-post audit carried out by the Agency in Iceland in October 2015 identified irregular payments in Hhe totalling EUR 1.4 million related to the depreciation of a vessel involved in seven joint operations during the period 2011-2015. 
The Icelandic Kstenwache had requested reimbursement of the depreciation costs for the ship, although its useful life had already exceeded the Agency's guidelines in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. 
Although the Agency is entitled to recover the irregular payments made within the last five years, it has refused to recover only the payments made since January 2015 in Hhe of EUR 0.6 million. 
C 434/178 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Court's observations The Internal Security Fund was established for the period 2014-2020. 
It consists of two instruments: the instrument for financial support for foreign borders and visas, as well as the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, over 2.8 billion euros (restrictions and visas) and 1 billion euros (police cooperation) for the financing of ones. 
Under the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas, the Commission shall reimburse Member States for the cost of equipment such as vehicles or vessels, as well as operating costs, such as fuel or maintenance costs. 
The Agency shall also reimburse such costs to participants in joint operations. 
There is therefore a risk of double financing (4), which is not taken into account. 
States participating in the border shall explain the costs incurred on the basis of cost statements, which include aFix costs (depreciation and maintenance costs), avariable expenditures (mainly fuel) and aDeployment costs (mainly losses and other expenses for crew members). 
The reported costs are based on actual values and comply with national standards. The stance of the participating states therefore differs, resulting in a particularly complex system for all parties involved. 
In its Special Report No 12/2016, the Court recommended to the agencies to make use of simplified cost options whenever deemed appropriate to avoid such inefficiencies (5). 
The Agency's previous Grndung Regulation, which was in force until 5 October 2016, provided for the financing of joint return operations carried out with participating States. 
However, from January to October 2016, the Agency financed national returns with an amount of 3.6 million euros. 
These payments are irregular. 
The Staff Regulations provide for temporary staff to be recruited only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 in the case of an external selection procedure (6). 
In 2016, the Agency recruited 14 staff in Hheren AST grades. 
At 6.4 million euros or 43 % (2015: 3.2 million euro and 38 % respectively for Title II (administrative expenditure) and with 67.3 million euro and 37 % respectively (2015: 40.2 million euro and 35 % respectively for Title III (operational expenditure) recorded an increase in the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year. 
The Agency may take into account the introduction of separate budgets in order to better address distortions that arise between legal obligations, contract delivery and activities and the corresponding payments. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/179 DE Court's observations The cancellation rate of committed appropriations from 2015 was high for Title III (operational expenditure) of 6.4 million euro and 16 % respectively, as costs for 2015, which still had to be reimbursed to the participating States in 2016, had been overestimated. 
The enhanced mandate of the Agency attaches great importance to cross-return actions; in the Agency's 2016 budget, EUR 63 million had been allocated for reversal operations. 
However, 23 million euro and 37.5 % of this amount were repaid to the EU budget, as fewer reverse actions were carried out than planned. 
The significant distortion of the procurement procedure for a framework contract of EUR 50 million for chartering aircraft and related services for Frontex-Rck operations contributed to this situation and continues to have a negative impact on the number of reverse operations organised by the Agency. 
The opening of this procurement procedure was scheduled for March 2016 and still not taken place by the end of the year. 
On 22. In December 2015, the Commission and the Agency, as co-ordinates and co-ordinators of three other partners (EASO, IOM and UNHCR) (7), signed a grant agreement of EUR 5.5 million for regional support for protection-oriented migration management in the Western Balkans and in the Trkei for a period of three years from 1 January 2016. 
However, the cooperation agreements with the three partners (legal commitments) of EUR 3.4 million were only signed between August and November 2016. 
In the case of two of these agreements, commitments were to be decommitted before legal commitments were made in October and December 2016. 
In addition, the commitments amounted to 1.2 million euro and only covered pre-financing payments. 
Such an action constitutes a breach of the provisions of the Financial Regulation on budgetary management; in addition, the signing of the agreements led to uncertainty as to operational cooperation between the partners. 
The Agency's 2016 establishment plan provided for 275 posts for officials and temporary staff (8). At the end of 2016, only 197 and 71 % of these posts were filled, mainly as 50 new posts were created only in October 2016 and the recruitment still needs to be completed. 
When recruiting staff with the required profiles, the Agency regularly insists on difficulties, partly due to the correction coefficient for the Gehlter (66.7 %). Year 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
C 434/180 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Court's observations As a result of the extension of its mandate, the Agency's staff will be more than doubled from 365 in 2016 to 1 000 in 2020(9). 
This increase was not based on a well-founded need. 
The Agency is currently analysing, together with the Commission and the country of headquarters, the possibilities to address this need. 
2016 2016 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.c.) n.e.c. completed (1) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 (OJ L 3, 31.12.2012, p. 
(2) In accordance with Article 3(4) of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, the co-financing of joint actions by the Agency is limited to surcharges. 
(3) Agreement between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Swiss Confederation and the Frstentum of Liechtenstein, on the other hand, establishing the modalities of the participation of those States in the European Agency for Operational Cooperation at the external borders of the Member States of the European Union 
(4) The Court had already contributed to this risk in paragraph 39 and recommendation 4 of its Special Report No 15/2014 aThe external border fund contributed to more financial soundness, but the measurement of results needs to be improved and additional EU added value added. 
(5) Recommendation 1 of Special Report No 12/2016 of the Court's use of grants by agencies: not always appropriate or proven to be effective. 
(6) Article 53(2) of the Staff Regulations. 
(7) European Asylum Support (Malta), International Organisation for Migration (Belgrade) and United Nations High Commissioner for Flchtlinge (Geneva). 
(8) In addition, 192 posts were granted for contract staff and seconded national experts. 
(9) Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Border and Coast Guard and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, Regulation (EC) No 863/2007 and Council Decision 2005/267/EC (COM(2015) 671 final 2015/0310(COD)). 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/181 ANNEX OF THE AGENTURY NOTICES FOR RETURNS AND ORDERALITY OF THE COUNCIL 3.30.10. 
After Frontex decided to terminate the contract, it was necessary to ensure the continuity of the services until the selection of a new contractor. 
In view of the limited market for the services in the region (except for the very small number of operators), the most suitable solution was to conclude a contract with the undertaking which, in the initial tender for the selection of shipowners, had been awarded the second best supplier. 
Therefore, in this case it is not the continuation of a tendering procedure which has already been concluded. 
In its decision, the Agency took into account that the company had already had experience in providing services to Frontex and that this was positive; the offered Fhre met all technical minimum requirements. 
The contractor agreed to provide the services on the same terms as required and offered in the original invitation to tender. 
A derogation was signed in November 2017 in which the hindrances for this decision were taken. 
The transfer agreement was signed by both parties in December 2017 and entered into force in January 2018. 
The application of the price as the sole criterion had been carefully tested and was based on the experience of Frontex over the past two years with the award of contracts for the provision of catches between the Greek islands and the Trkei. 
As a result of market restrictions in the geographical region, very small number of operators with a limited offer of Fhren was not intended to establish qualitative award criteria. 
The services provided by Frontex were short journeys between the Greek islands and the Trkei to facilitate returnees under the EU-Trkei takeover agreement, ensuring that these actions were carried out in a safe environment and in full respect of fundamental rights. 
In line with the last sentence of Article 31(2) of the Staff Regulations (aIn order to take account of the specific needs of the institutions, the recruitment of officials may also take into account the labour market situation in the Union). 
This decision was fully in line with the posts (which form an integral part of the budget) and had never been questioned by the budgetary authorities. 
Since March 2017, Frontex has not recruited any external candidates in higher grades than grade AST 4. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12. 
The costs for inspection/maintenance work are defined as costs for all inspection/maintenance work during the entire life of the equipment (...). 
Set on the basis of the data communicated by the manufacturer or the maintenance office of the Behrde using the means. 
This means that the hourly rate may be indicated in the form of an explanation of the costs of the persons concerned, either on the basis of cuts made by the manufacturer or on a price calculated on the basis of the actual costs incurred in the previous years, or on a cost depreciation, using reference data for means of input where it is a new input and no data is available. 
Invoices (or accounting documents equivalent to the data quantity) can only be made available if the hourly price is based on the costs actually incurred in the reference year. 
However, the person concerned also has the possibility to set an hourly rate on the basis of average reference prices if no invoices have actually been issued. 
This was the case with the selected payment, whereby the Icelandic Kstenwache Frontex provided a depreciation of the constant maintenance costs. 
The documents submitted by the Icelandic Kstenwache took into account the results of the ex-post controls carried out by a Frontex ex-post control team during a 2015 visit to the maintenance centre in Iceland; in doing so, the team had reviewed the documents provided by the Icelandic Kstenwache as the basis of their calculation methods. 
Therefore, in Frontex's view, the document submitted by Iceland offers sufficient reason for the approval of the issue. 
The total hourly rate for all inspection/maintenance work of an aircraft with fixed loaders results from three wards with special regulations: The signed contract provided for a maximum amount of EUR 9 010 475.50; however, the payments are based on the hourly rate for the maintenance of an engine. 
The Guardia Civil calculates the hourly rate for engine maintenance according to the contractual requirements. 
If less time is spent on engine maintenance, the total limit is not reached. 
Therefore, in this case, the total value of the contract is not relevant, but the hourly rate. 
De C 434/182 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 
The Agency assumes that upon termination of the contract, Guardia Civil will pay the total amount specified in the contract. 
The Hhe of an hourly price is calculated by dividing this total cost by the number of flight hours. 
The provisions of the contract are, as above, a contract for a total price (not a framework contract), with monthly invoices for the specific work carried out by the contractor. 
The Agency assumes that upon termination of the contract, Guardia Civil will pay the total amount specified in the contract. 
On the basis of the abovementioned reasons, the Agency cannot proceed to the Court's risk assessment, since those refunded to the Guardia Civil would ultimately correspond to the bets reimbursed on the basis of a contract relating to a total price of bets, which are reimbursed on the basis of specific invoices. 
The current concept of measures for the production performance of the operation, the current strategy and the resulting emergency plne were developed and (yetly) updated on the basis of the legal framework and structure, which were in force until the end of 2016. 
In particular, due to the extended mandate and the corresponding new structure, the emergency responses will be reviewed by the relevant bodies, as the organisational changes also require a complete revision of the underlying discharge. 
COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.30.15. 
The biggest challenge is related to the availability of commitments during a given year. 
In order to avoid the risk of high cancellations, in the fourth quarter of 2016, Frontex also appealed to the parties concerned to submit their antrge for the final payment for deposits that ended in the first half of this year and to provide Frontex with respect to current ones costs (December 2016) or planned deposits (January 2017) in the context of operational activities in 2016. 
The main objective of these calls was to identify possible delays, reduce the corresponding SFD allocations and reuse the funds in 2016. 
Despite some positive results of this action, the financial transfers were still very high. 
Consequently, despite an orderly reduction of the actual financial needs, Frontex used additional resources to ensure the financial coverage of the deposits in autumn 2016, as the decommitted appropriations of the completed and ongoing ones were not available at that time. 
The Agency has developed a simplified Frderschema, which will be implemented from the operational cycle in 2018 and will be applied significantly to a significantly higher level of Stck Costs for feeds of up to one year; the Agency not only intensifies the monitoring of the settlement of surcharges, but also seeks to reduce the cancellation of transfers. 
Despite the rectification of funds to the Commission, the main objective of the Agency in relation to the reverse actions was achieved: It provided the Member States with technical and operational support for carrying out reverse operations and carried out specific pre-return measures (for the identification of sweepers, training/training, knowledge exchange between Member States, etc.). 
In 2017, the number of reverse operations coordinated by Frontex increased significantly: With an increase of 47 % compared to the previous year, the number of migrants in an irregular situation increased from 10,700 in 2016 to 14,200 in 2017. 
This represents a share of 10 % of the total number of EU migrants actually returned to third countries (in 2014 the corresponding figure was 2 %). 
Recruitment Payments of appropriations for staff expenditure were mainly due to the difficulties and the consequent distortions in the recruitment process: lengthy procedures, long notice periods, insufficient number of candidates and lack of geographical balance due to a low correction coefficient. 
Nevertheless, the Agency considers it to be a success that more than 250 new staff have been recruited and incorporated within one year. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/183 3.30.17. 
2017 was the first year for the Agency to implement the new EGKW Regulation. 
Pursuant to Article 75(13), the Agency is obliged to put into its budget an operational financial position of 4 % of the appropriations earmarked for operational measures in order to finance emergency catches for border security purposes (RABIT) and reverse operations. 
On 1 October of each year, at least one quarter of the rectangle should remain available in order to meet a demand until the end of the year. 
The required operational position has been put in place so that the Agency can, at any time during the year, provide for a certain reserve for the implementation of emergency catches for border security purposes and to cover the initial costs of such rapid intervention. 
The European Parliament had gendered the original text of the ECFC Regulation proposed by the Commission by adding the addition, that by 1 October only a quarter of the gap for the remaining three months of the year must remain available. 
The ECFC Regulation is silent on what will happen to the remaining three quarters of the recoil after 1 October; this point is unclear. 
The first transfer at the end of September was intended for the financing of truncated operational measures in the air and at sea and the acquisition of own air surveillance services; the second transfer took place after 1 October. 
The Board of Directors was informed in the monthly report on transfers. 
The Agency considers that the legislator should ensure clarity. 
The non-mandatory situation had already been envisaged during the preparations for the Single Programming Document (EPPD) 2017-2019. 
In accordance with Article 75(3) et seq. of the ECFC Regulation, the preparation of the SPD and the revenue and expenditure recovery in year N-2 were started and completed in the autumn of N-1. 
The EGKW Regulation entered into force in October 2016. 
The Agency had to plan the annual work programme 2017 (as part of the SPD 2017-2019) all year 2016 on without the final outcome of the discussions on the EGKW Regulation and thus without a clearly defined legal basis. 
Towards the end of 2016, the EPPD 2017-2019 had already been completed and had to be approved by the Management Board, which fully supported the creation of the non-mandatory position in view of the passage to the European Border and Coast Guard. 
In its opinion on the 2017-2019 SPD, (C92016)8722, the Commission stated in point 63: the Commission acknowledges that contingency planning has become a guiding principle for the preparation of the annual work programme and that the Agency intends to allocate almost 10 % of its operational budget to the so-called âoperative Flexibilitt (...). 
In this context, the Commission invites the Agency to set up two separate positions within its budget, the first fully in line with Article 75(13) of the ECFC Regulation and the second gives the Agency the possibility to maintain the operational flexilitt in order to address emergency situations other than immediate ones. 
As the Agency publishes its job vacancies in English, EPSO would require transfers to all official EU languages, given the large number of job vacancies, this would mean that costs would increase significantly and that the recruitment procedure could be distorted. 
Frontex disseminates information on vacant posts on other Kanle, i.e. through the network of EU agencies, the Management Board, Permanent Representations, Eurobrussels and social media. 
Following the signature of an agreement with the Commission (DG DIGIT), the instrument will be used for the first time. 
The formal deadline for this instrument was set at the end of October 2018 in accordance with Article 90(2) of the Public Procurement Directive, which the Commission applies to the agencies; Frontex will comply with this deadline. 
De C 434/184 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under the MFF sub-heading 4. 
EUROPEURISCHE STIFTUNG FR VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ETF) INTRODUCTION 3.31.1. 
The European Vocational Training Foundation (hereinafter 'the Foundation', also known as 'aETF'), established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 (238) (recast Regulation (EC) No 1339/2008 (239)) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 (238) (recast Regulation (EC) No 1339/2008 (239). 
To this end, the Commission is assisting the Commission in implementing various vocational training programmes. 
3.31.2. 
The table contains the most important figures for the Foundation (240). 
Table Main figures for the Foundation 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 total staff at 31. 1. The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 21 130 PRFILITIES 3.31.3. 
We have a) the annual accounts of the Foundation, consisting of the annual accounts (241) and the reports on budget implementation (242) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Eligibility of the invoice procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.31.4. According to our assessment, the Foundation's annual accounts for the 31st December 2017 end of year the foundation's financial position on 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 131, 23.5.1990, p. 1. 
L 354, 31.12.2008, p. 82. 
(240) Further information about the needs and activities of the Foundation can be found on its website www.etf.europa.eu. 
(241) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(242) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarised by the appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/185 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.31.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.31.6. 
3.31.7. 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.31.8. 
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented in 2017 a review on the progress monitoring of vocational education and training in the framework of the Turin process in the Foundation (243). The Foundation prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.31.9. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(243) The court did not review these inspections. 
C 434/186 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In 2016, an external evaluation of the Foundation was carried out on behalf of the Commission. 
This was the first step in a cross-cutting evaluation of the four agencies in the field of employment, social affairs and integration(1). 
The evaluators concluded that the substantial restructuring of the Foundation has had no significant negative effects since 2011 and that internal and external stakeholders are predominantly positively assessed, in particular in terms of strategy and effectiveness. 
The foundation's governance structure was considered efficient and effective. 
The evaluation also emphasises that the Foundation has further improved its monitoring capacity since 2011, but that it must present its achievements and achievements even more clearly. 
A standardisation and simplification of indicators under a single intervention logic and the use of a common terminology throughout the Foundation would contribute to an improvement. 
The foundation prepared a plan to implement the recommendations of the evaluators. 
Already in its report on the Foundation's 2011 financial statements, the Court emphasised that the situation regarding the Foundation's rumours is unsatisfactory and that there is a risk that the Foundation will not be able to continue its activities continuously. 
The situation has remained unchanged since the consortium responsible for the administration of the Gebu-decomplex, which used part of the rums in the complex itself, was settled in 2011 and left the corresponding rume empty. 
The Member State in which the Foundation is based urgently needs to find a solution to this problem. 
The headquarters agreement guarantees adequate rumours until the year 2027. 
The other agencies to be evaluated are the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin), the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) and the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Thessaloniki). 
De 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/187 ANNEX OF THE OPINION The Foundation takes note of the Court's report. 
De C 434/188 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under MFF sub-heading 5. 
EURATOM SUPPLY AGENCY INTRODUCTION 3.32.1. 
The Euratom Supply Agency (hereinafter 'the Agency') established in Luxembourg in 1958(244). 
Council Decision 2008/114/EC, Euratom(245) replaced the previously applicable statutes of the Agency. 
The Agency's main task is to ensure the regular supply of nuclear materials to EU users, in particular nuclear fuels, in accordance with the principle of equal access to supply sources through a common supply policy. 
3.32.2. 
From 2008 to 2011, the Agency was not allocated its own budget to finance its activities. 
Since 2012, the Agency has been allocated its own budget by the Commission. However, this covers only a small part of their expenses. 
3.32.3. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (246). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 0.1 Total staff at 31. 17 (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL PRESENTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL, ECA N NOTE OF THE UNABILITIVE COUNCIL 2016 0,1 17 PRFUNGSURPART 3.32.4. 
We have (a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (247) and the reports on budget implementation (248) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Eligibility of the invoice procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.32.5. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
(244) OJ 
L 41, 15.2.2008, p. 15. 
(246) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website http://ec.europa.eu/euratom/ index.html. 
(247) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(248) Reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising the benefits of revenue and expenditure, as well as congestion. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/189 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.32.6. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.32.7. 
De C 434/190 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR The Agency takes note of the Court's report. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/191 Self-financed agencies 3.33. 
COMMUNITY PLANT VARIETY OFFICE (CPVO) INTRODUCTION 3.33.1. 
The Community Plant Variety Office (hereinafter referred to as aCPVO...), established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 (249), was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 (249). 
3.33.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Office (250). 
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) 16 total staff at 31. (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL PRESENTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE COUNCIL 2016 16 44 PRFUNGSURPLE 3.33.3. We have (a) the Office's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts(251) and the reports on budget implementation (252) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.33.4. 
According to our assessment, the Office's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year of the Office's financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 227, 1.9.1994, p. 1. 
(250) Further information about the duties and duties of the Office can be found on its website www.cpvo.europa.eu. 
(251) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of the basic accounting principles and other congestion. 
(252) The reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarised by appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/192 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.33.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.33.6. 
3.33.7. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.33.8. 
In 2017, the procurement and grant award procedures were not adequately documented. 
In the procurement of low- and medium-value services, there were no inconsistencies in the published contract documents, records to satisfy the pre-selection of candidates in low-value procurement procedures, and no evaluation reports were drawn up by the Office for the recruitment of temporary employment contracts. 
In addition, the award criteria were not clearly stated. 
As regards the award of grants, the risk assessments were not appropriate and the expert opinions were not signed. 
In accordance with its financial regulations (253), the Office should establish a uniform procedure for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures. 
The Office had not implemented any of these tools by the end of 2017. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.33.10. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(253) Article 74 E-government. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/193 ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations from the Court's observations The Office uses electronic payment transactions. 
The accounting officer or his two alternates may sign the payments electronically. 
At 31. On December 12, 2015, the total outstanding fees (mainly annual rebates) amounted to 240 766 Eu-ro(1). 
The Office did not use all the possibilities provided for in its financial regulation to collect outstanding fees, such as foreclosure (2). With EUR 788 540 or 40 % (2015: The rate of committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) for Title II (administrative expenditure) was high, i.e. EUR 395 882 or 28 % respectively. 
These transfers mainly concern current surveys (EUR 284 423), IT projects (EUR 253 483) and costs for inspections and evaluations (EUR 137 098), for which services are partly provided in 2017 or invoiced only this year. 
The cancellation rate of payment appropriations from 2015 to the following year was 17 % for Title II (2015: 20 %) also high, suggesting that budgetary planning needs to be improved. 
Periodic external performance evaluations are not required in the Office's Grndung Ordinance. 
Although the Office or the Commission has carried out ad hoc evaluations on specific issues, the Office, together with the Commission, should consider commissioning comprehensive external performance evaluations at least every five years, as most other agencies do. 
De C 434/194 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANNEX OF AMTS 3.33.8. 
It agrees with the Court that the documentation should be improved and points out that the necessary evaluations, evaluations and opinions have been carried out as part of the respective procedures. 
3.33.9. 
Before the end of the year, the Office entered into a contractual agreement with the European Commission on the provision of the electronic submission tool. 
At that time, there were no calls for tenders that met the terms of use of the tool, and the use of the tool was not mandatory at that time. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/195 3.34. 
The European Union Intellectual Property Office (hereinafter referred to as 'Adas Amt', also known as 'AEUIPO'), which runs until 23. The Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (OHIM) was established in 1993. 
Its original regulation was last gendered by Regulation (EU) 2017/1001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (254). 
The essence of the Office, established in Alicante, is the registration of EU trade marks and registered Community designs which have legality throughout the EU. 
3.34.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Office (255). 
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 401 total staff at 31. December 995 (1) The figures on the budget include the rectification of unforeseen events. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL PRESENTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL, ECA'S NOTE FROM THE UNABILITIVE COUNCIL 2016 421 910 PRFUNGSURPART 3.34.3. We have (a) the Office's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts(256) and the reports on budget implementation (257) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.34.4. According to our assessment, the Office's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year of the Office's financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 154, 16.6.2017, p. 1. 
(255) Further information about the duties and duties of the Office can be found on its website https://euipo.europa.eu. 
(256) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(257) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/196 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.34.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.34.6. 
3.34.7. 
In 2017, the Office cancelled 3.2 million euro or 15.9 % of committed appropriations from the financial year 2016. 
The Office continued to use fixed prices (258) for services. 
The prices used in each service increase are based on unit prices set out in framework agreements (price/personnel day, etc.) and the number of units for the service in question. 
When assessing the contractors' quotations, the Office shall ensure that the unit prices are applied correctly. 
3.34.10. 
However, the list of services to be provided in connection with the framework agreement was not confusing in the case of a framework agreement with a value of EUR 80 million for general consultancy, project management and studies. 
In order to evaluate the tenders, the tender specifications contained two business cases relating to the management of a project and a multi-project programme. 
This framework agreement is a mixed multi-frame agreement, partly applying a cascade procedure (general advisory and project management services) and in part a reopening of competition (study and studies). 
The units have been pre-determined by the Office, but tenderers were invited to define the distribution between the different profiles. 
The framework agreement and also some of the related individual contracts were therefore advertised on the basis of unit prices, types of profiles and quality, but not the expected number of squared units, which is another essential element in the calculation of a fixed price contract. 
3.34.11. 
This framework agreement was subject to a specific contract with a fixed price of EUR 145 447.50, which primarily concerns the provision of support services for the implementation of a document management project. 
The person days required for the provision of these services cannot be derived from the business cases set out in the tender specifications or from the description contained in the specific contract. 
In the case of a fixed price as set out in this specific contract, there is therefore a risk that the services will not be rendered in the most economical way. 
3.34.12. 
If not all conditions for the provision of services can be laid down in the award of the framework agreement, a renewed call for competition between several contractors of the framework agreement will be more appropriate for the individual contracts. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.34.13. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(258) See also paragraph 21 of the previous year's report. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/197 DE 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) Completed (3) ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court's observations The Office's budget implementation rate was low at 89 %, indicating an inaccurate reduction of its expenditure in the 2016 budget. 
As a result of the recent amendments to the Staff Regulations and the Financial Regulations of the Office, it has become more important that the Office, if necessary, draws up an accurate budget by means of an amending budget, as it now provides for a tightening of mechanisms foreseen in the budget, such as the allocation of surpluses to a backlog fund(1) and a related compensation mechanism (2). 
In 2014, the Office launched a call for tenders for a four-year framework contract covering an increased market volume of EUR 30 million for consulting services covering a wide range of activities, including audit services, project management, general advisory services and studies. 
However, the procurement procedure and subsequent use of the framework contract were sometimes not adequately managed. 
The objectives and the activities to be carried out had not been defined precisely enough to ensure that the volume of the framework contract was sharply reduced. 
Therefore, the resources of the framework contract had already been completely eliminated after only two years and six months. 
In addition, despite the diversity of the services to be procured and the very different spending hahes, no lots were used per activity. 
The use of lots can encourage smaller companies to participate in the low-value process. 
Finally, the price competition has been neutralised and the contractor is entitled to pay due to the fact that fixed price offers were requested by a single contractor using the framework contract. 
The Office should consider entering into agreements with several suppliers and, if necessary, reopening competition. 
The Office's regulation stipulates that the relocations necessary for the work of the Office are to be carried out by the Centre for the Institutions of the European Union (CdT), which leads to the Office being the main client of the Centre. 
The Office is increasingly resorting to internal applications such as linguistic and translation memory as well as additional software. 
These tools are designed to improve the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of the Office. 
From the perspective of the European Union, however, the current situation could lead to a doubling of the effort and the corresponding costs. 
2016 In progress (4) 2016 In progress (1) in accordance with Article 89(1) of its Financial Regulations, the Office shall set up a reserve fund, the amount of which is to continue its activity and to carry out its tasks for one year, i.e. the appropriations set out in Titles 1, 2 and 3 of the Office's budget are in line with the appropriations set out in Titles 1, 2 and 3 of the Office's budget. 
(2) In accordance with the fourth and sixth paragraphs of Article 139 of its Regulation, the Office shall, each year, offset the costs incurred by a Member State in respect of the industrial property rights of the Member States, the Benelux Office for Intellectual Property and any other inclined bidder to be designated by a Member State as a result of the specific tasks which they carry out as functional components of the trade mark system of the European Union in the context of various services and procedures; this obligation applies only to the absence of a budget deficit this year. 
(3) In 2017, the Office's budget implementation rate was 97 %. 
(4) See point 3.34.8. 
De C 434/198 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REQUIREMENT OF THE AM NOTICES FOR Budget 3.34.8. 
While the cancellation rate is just above 15 %, the amount of cancelled tied transfers at EUR 3.2 million is the lowest in the last decade (since 2008). 
The Office continues to cooperate with the national EURmtern in order to reduce the cancelled transfers by means of interim reports on the implementation and half-year reviews with deferred control measures, which constitute an integral part of each new cooperation agreement. 
In addition, further measures were enforced internally, such as awareness-raising measures through coaching, training, information notes and meetings with the financial actors. 
In addition, before the end of 2017, the Office calculated that the level of cancelled transfers would rise to 15 % and proactively took additional measures to reduce transfers for the next year. 
The Office took note of the Court's observations. 
As a preliminary point, it should be noted that the scenarios for the future uses of the contract described in the procurement documents were aimed at being as vivid and representative as possible and not expected to be linked in detail to each specific contract. 
As regards the adequacy of the reopening of the competition mechanisms and as stated in the Office's reply to the 2016 audit, this approach has already been incorporated into the audit and studies framework contract. 
The Office has compared the added value of this mechanism with the associated administrative costs and, given the intensive use by the Office of the advisory and project management services, concludes that this should not be considered as the most efficient way of managing the latter types of contracts. 
Taking into account the fact that the current framework contract is valid until 2020, the extension of this mechanism to the advisory and project management services would require a new call for tender at that time, which the Office does not consider appropriate. 
In the existing cascade system for consulting and project management services, the Office reiterates its response to the 2016 audit on the use of fixed price procedures. 
The main reason for the choice of this option is that proceedings against the Office before the Spanish labour courts in relation to a non-legislative transfer of employees, which are related, inter alia, to the use of the earlier aTime and Means' rule. 
In the fixed price procedure (under the cascade system), the Office has experience in evaluating the offers. 
EUIPO has set up a specific team that, based on previous practice and expertise, is able to dedicate the resources needed to fulfil the tasks behind fixed price performance. 
However, we believe that the Court's concerns can be addressed through contractual methods other than the fixed price, such as the aQuoted Time and Means' procedure, a method that the Office could take into account in the future after a case-by-case examination. 
The Office undertakes to provide further information and to document its own resources necessary to carry out the tasks for fixed price services before the request for tender is issued in order to provide evidence of the above-mentioned experience of the Office in advance. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/199 3.35. 
Single Resolution Board (SRB) INTRODUCTION 3.35.1. 
The Single Resolution Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board), also established in Brssel, was established by Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 on the Single Resolution Mechanism (aSRM Regulation) (259). 
3.35.2. 
The Board shall be responsible for the management of the Single Resolution Fund (hereinafter referred to as 'the Fund'), established by the SRM Regulation and intended to support the Single Resolution Mechanism. 
3.35.3. 
The Committee has its own budget, which is not part of the EU budget. 
3.35.4. 
The table contains the main figures for the Committee (260). 
Table Main figures for the Committee Budget (million euro) Part I (Administrative budget of the Committee) Part II (Fund's budget) 2017 113 6 462 2016 65 11 800 182 total staff at 31. 1. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Committee. To the EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL REGULATION OF THE REGULATION OF THE HOUSE OF THE UNABILITY COUNCIL (259) 
L 225, 30.7.2014, p. 1. 
(260) Further information on the Committee's needs and activities can be found on its website www.srb.europa.eu. 
(261) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other sluggishments. (262) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as convulsions. 
De C 434/200 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.35.7. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.35.8. 
Emphasis on a situation 3.35.9. 
Without calling into question our audit opinions set out in paragraphs 3.35.6-3.35.8, we would like to stress that the contributions to the Fund are calculated on the basis of the information provided to the Committee by credit institutions (and some investment firms). 
When examining the Committee's revenue, the Court relied on this information, which it did not consider its reliability. 
The SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework that ensures the reliability of the information. 
In addition, the Board cannot provide details of the claims per credit institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, as the calculations are interlinked and contain confidential information about other credit institutions. 
3.35.10. 
Administrative complaints or judicial proceedings between credit institutions and national resolution authorities and the Board in connection with the contributions to the Fund and actions brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union of former shareholders and Glubiger of Banco Popular Espaol, S.A, following the adoption of the resolution scheme, the Court excluded from its inspection in order not to affect the position of the parties in those proceedings. 
Detailed information can be found in paragraph 8 of the Committee's annual accounts. 
3.35.11. 
The following observations do not call into question the Court's assessment. COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.35.12. 
The Committee did not ensure that payments are made on time. 
Around 28 % of payments (9.5 % of total payments) to contractors and reimbursements to experts and staff were made according to skill. 
Comments ON THE RELIABILITY of the accounting procedure 3.35.13. 
In accordance with Article 92(4) of the SRM Regulation, the Court reports in particular on the contingent liabilities arising from the performance of their duties under this Regulation to the Committee, the Council and the Commission. 
According to the preliminary procurement plan annexed to the 2017 work programme, more than 16 different services should be awarded, but in fact only the provision of legal advice has been awarded. 
In addition, the estimated value of the contract for the provision of legal advice in the preliminary procurement plan was 3 million euros, while the actual order volume amounted to EUR 29 million. 
This indicates an involuntary procurement planning. 
3.35.15. 
Of these, 20 million euros were awarded by means of 11 negotiated procedures without prior publication. 
In addition, two amounts of EUR 3 million for advice and support for economic and financial evaluation (as foreseen in the 2016 annual work programme) were also awarded through such a procedure. 
The use of such procedures leads to the restriction of competition. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/201 3.35.16. 
In accordance with its financial provisions, the Committee should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (263). 
As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). The Committee had not implemented any of these tools by the end of 2017. 
3.35.17. 
The Committee publishes vacancy notices on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). As a result, the principle of transparency was respected, publicity was established and the Brgers were able to view vacancies issued by the various European institutions and agencies. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.35.18. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(263) Article 75 of the Financial Regulations of the SRB of 25. Mr. M. 2015. 
C 434/202 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations from the Court's observations The Committee took action in 2015 and gradually set up its internal control environment. 
However, the preparation, adoption or implementation of a number of essential procedures and controls are still pending. To this end, the risk management and control strategy, the standards for internal control, the regular assessment of the proper functioning of the internal control system and the fraud prevention strategy. 
The accounting officer has not yet validated the Committee's accounting system. 
Of the available appropriations, only 62 % (2015: 67 %) and 35 million euros (2015: 15 million euros) (1). 
For Title II (Administrative Expenditure), committed appropriations for the following financial year amount to 3.1 million euro and 35 % respectively (2015: 3.3 million euro or 70 % of the total committed appropriations. 
They mainly concern IT alerts issued in 2016 (EUR 1.9 million) and security services provided this year, which have not yet been invoiced and paid (0.6 million euros). 
For Title III of the budget (operational expenditure), committed appropriations for the following financial year amount to EUR 5.3 million and 66 % respectively (2015: 1.6 million euro or 40 % of committed appropriations. 
They mainly concern services provided by the European Central Bank (EUR 1.9 million), legal services (EUR 1.5 million) and IT increases (1.3 million euros) for which payments are to be made in 2017. 
Between July and October 2016, the Committee committed EUR 2 million for the procurement of legal services. These services were neither planned in the annual work programme or in the budget nor were a financing decision adopted before the budgetary commitment. 
Applying the negative interest rate to the deposit of the European Central Bank in 2016, the Fund paid EUR 24 million negative interest rates (2) to the national central banks. 
This reduced the amount of cumulated aids available for sound settlements. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/203 DE Court's observations The Committee needs to carry out its recruitment procedures more closely, provide clear minimum scores to be achieved by the candidates and define more precisely the tasks and needs of the members of the selection committee. 
In 2016, the distribution rate was 71 % and 71 million euros respectively. 
EUR 50 million in 2017. 
De C 434/204 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANNEX OF THE COMMITTEE 3.35.9. 
The annual ex-ante contributions to the Fund shall be calculated on the basis of the information provided to the Board of credit institutions and certain investment firms. 
Although the SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework providing for the reliability of this information, the SRF pays all possible attention to this aspect. 
The data provided shall be reviewed on the basis of the data transmitted by institutions in the previous year and the data contained in the ECB database. 
Deviations are indicated to the national resolution authorities who are asked to clarify the facts. As a result, it was possible for the SRF to improve the quality of the data in the previous cycles. 
In addition, the Board cannot provide details of the ex-ante contributions per institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, as the calculations are interlinked and thus reveal confidential information about other institutions. 
However, the SRF has disclosed the calculation method and in-depth calibrations in order to ensure transparency and cooperation. 
3.35.12. 
In 2017, due to a combination of an unexpectedly high workload, an unfortunate turnover in the financial team and general difficulties in finding experienced employees, the capacitit of the financial team was not sufficient to ensure the efficient processing of all financial transactions, including invoices. 
Since the 4th quarter of 2017, the team's capacitance has been reversed and measures have been taken to ensure timely processing of invoices. 
To date, almost 98 % of invoices have been settled in 2018 within the deadlines set. 
Each case of late payment is now being investigated closely in order to achieve further improvements in this area. 
3.35.14. 
The SRB's preliminary procurement plan for 2017 was adopted in 2016 when the Committee was only in its second full year. 
At that time, no resolution cases had been processed and the Agency had little experience on the basis of which its procurement plan could be drawn up. 
As a new agency, it was possible for the SRB to use various interinstitutional frameworks managed by the European Commission. 
This led to the fact that several procurement procedures, which should be launched by the SRB in 2017, were ultimately not carried out. 
In 2018, the implementation of the procurement plan will be closely monitored and additional efforts are being made to improve the planning of procurement procedures. 
In 2017, the SRB spent a total of EUR 20 million in funding for the provision of legal advice. 
Almost all negotiated procedures without prior publication of a contract notice concerned litigation (eight out of 10 in total, with a total value of EUR 10.9 million), which did not fall within the scope of Directive 2014/24/EU. 
This also includes a high number of disputes brought before the ECJ after the SRB's first resolution procedure. 
The SRB therefore does not consider that it is using such procedures. 
As regards the economic and financial evaluation of two of the Twelve cases in 2017, the reopening of competition proved to be unsuccessful. The SRB was therefore forced to resort to negotiated procedures. 
Due to the subject-matter of the contract and the need for the utmost confidentiality, the contract notice was not published in accordance with the applicable rules. 
3.35.16. 
Online access to tender documents has been available to economic operators on the SRB website since the Committee was founded and has been fully integrated into the electronic tendering platform since the end of 2017. 
In June 2017, the SRB asked to use the electronic submission of tenders. However, the Commission has not yet secured access. 
The SRB has found that such publications on the EPSO website do not increase the quality or number of applications and that they are also very costly due to the mandatory posting of the vacancy notices. 
Therefore, the SRB publishes its vacancy notices preferably on its own website as well as on EU_CV online and LinkedIn and informs its stakeholders (central banks, ministries of finance, national bidders, other EU agencies and permanent representations). 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/205 3.36. FR THE BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (CDT) INTRODUCTION 3.36.1. 
The Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (hereinafter 'Adas Centre', also known as 'aCdT'), with its registered office in Luxembourg, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2965/94(264). 
The Centre's task is to provide the institutions and bodies of the European Union which use the services of the Centre with regard to their service. 
3.36.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the centre (265). 
Table Main figures for the Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) 49 Total staff at 31. 1 December (1) The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
Source: Data provided by the Centre. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 51 225 PRFILITIES 3.36.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Centre consisting of the annual accounts(266) and the reports on budget implementation (267) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.36.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Centre for the 31st of December December 2017 end year the centre's merging and financial position at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 314, 7.12.1994, p. 1. 
(265) Further information about the needs and activities of the Centre can be found on its website www.cdt.europa.eu. 
(266) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(267) Reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as hauling. 
De C 434/206 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.36.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.36.6. 
Note 3.36.7. 
The Centre's mission is to provide the agencies and bodies of the EU with regard to their service. It also carries out this task against the EU institutions, which can use the services of the Centre. 
Most Agencies and Institutions Regulations provide that they benefit from the Centre's transfer services. 
Some agencies and institutions (which are more than the centre's revenue) are increasingly resorting to in-house opportunities or other alternatives. 
However, this means that the centre's capacitance is not used to the maximum, that there is a duplication in terms of the development of systems and the running costs at the European level, and that the business model and business continuity of the centre could be carried out. 
An external assessment of the adequacy of the Centre's business model was carried out in 2017. 
The final evaluation report had not yet been adopted at the time of the Court's inspection (268). 
3.36.8. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.36.9. 
In accordance with their Framework Financial Regulation, the Agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (269) (270). 
As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
By the end of 2017, the Centre had introduced e-invoicing for certain procedures, but not the electronic tendering and electronic submission of tenders. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.36.11. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(268) The Court did not review this evaluation work. 
(269) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 e-government. 
(270) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/207 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years The Centre has not yet adopted a business continuity plan and therefore does not comply with the internal control standard (1). 
In 2016, the centre's cash and short-term bank deposits went to EUR 34.2 million (end of 2015: 38.3 million euros). Reserves decreased to EUR 31.1 million (end 2015: 34 million euros). This trajectory is the result of a budgetary approach aimed at reducing the amount of fire accumulated in previous years (2). 
2015 2016 State of revision (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) Completed In progress (1) (2) The standards for internal control of the Centre are based on the corresponding standards of the Commission. 
This trend continued in 2017. 
De C 434/208 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANNEX OF THE CENTRUY 3.36.9. 
The accounting officer is irresponsible in the performance of his accounting obligations. 
This independence is ensured by the fact that he is appointed by the Board of Directors and that his position is indefinite. 
In order to ensure the independence of the accounting officer, he will be directly subordinated to the Director of the Centre for the tasks of the Accounting Officer as of 2018, and his/her annual assessment will be carried out by the Director. 
3.36.10. 
The Centre will use these two instruments developed by the Commission from October 2018. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/209 Commission Executive Agencies 3.37. 
EDUCATION, AUDIOVISUAL AND CULTURE EXECUTIVE AGENCY (EACEA) INTRODUCTION 3.37.1. 
The Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Brssel, was established by Commission Implementing Decision 2013/776/EU(271) repealing Decision 2009/336/EC(272). 
The Agency is responsible for the management of programmes adopted by the Commission in the fields of education, audiovisual and culture, as well as for the detailed implementation of technical projects. 
3.37.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (273). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 50 total staff at 31. 1. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 49 442 PRFILITIES 3.37.3. 
We have (a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (274) and the reports on budget implementation (275) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.37.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 343, 19.12.2013, p. 46. 
L 101, 21.4.2009, p. 26. 
(273) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.eacea.ec.europa.eu. 
(274) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(275) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/210 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.37.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.37.6. 
3.37.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ACCOUNTING 3.37.8. 
The manager of the agency's accounting officer is the Head of Finance, Accounting and Programming. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (276). As a corresponding requirement applies to the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.37.10. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service submitted inspection reports on the management of recovery orders for money purchases for competition reasons (including collateral for money purchases for competition reasons) and recovery orders in the context of the Commission's correction capacity as well as phase 1 of the grant management in relation to the Erasmus+ and Creative Europe programmes (277). 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.37.11. 
(276) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. (277) The court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/211 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations In the annual stocktaking of the Agency's merging values in 2016, 46 IT articles with a total purchase value of EUR 22 000 could not be found, indicating Mngel in securing merging. 
EUR 2.3 million or 47 % (2015: 2.8 million euro and 50 % respectively, the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year was high for Title III (support to the Agency's operational activities). 
These transfers mainly concern ongoing audits of projects (0.8 million euro) and IT services (EUR 0.9 million), which were commissioned in 2016, but which had not yet been invoiced at the end of the year, or which will not be delivered until 2017. 
2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
De C 434/212 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.37.8. The Agency considers that its accounting officer has a high degree of independence. 
It should be borne in mind that the accounting officer of the EACEA, as a seconded commission official, is, as a seconded commission official, much more inferior than the accounting officer hired on the spot. 
Through this constellation, the seconded accounting officer is part of the organisational structure of the delegated DG, in our case DG EAC. 
The Agency will analyse the Court's remark, taking into account potential measures taken by other EU agencies and/or the Commission's organisational guidelines. 
Since the top management level of the Agency is subject to changes, the matter will be submitted to the forthcoming Director for scrutiny. 
3.37.9. 
The Agency strictly follows the Commission's e-procurement project. 
It plans to start the electronic tendering process (e-tendering) in July 2018, which will follow the procedure for electronic submission of tenders (e-submission). 
3.37.10. 
Both measures have now been sent to and accepted by the Internal Audit Service. 
It should be noted that in the meantime all planned measures have been carried out. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/213 3.38. 
FR EXECUTIVE AGENCY FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES (EASME) INTRODUCTION 3.38.1. 
The Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as "adie Agentur", also known as aEASME...), established in Brssel, was established by Commission Implementing Decision 2013/771/EU (278) for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31. It was built in December 2024. 
Its main task is to manage EU measures in the fields of research and innovation, competitiveness of SMEs, environmental and climate policy, and maritime and fisheries policy in close cooperation with seven Directorates-General of the Commission. 
3.38.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (279). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 43 total staff at 31. 1. The staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 36 417 PRFILITIES 3.38.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (280) and the reports on budget implementation (281) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the eligibility of the invoice 3.38.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 341, 18.12.2013, p. 73. 
(279) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/easme/. 
(280) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(281) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/214 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.38.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.38.6. 
3.38.7. 
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.38.8. 
In the course of this year's audit of EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and the independence of the accounting directors, as well as the aspect of the timely (re)validation of the accounting systems. 
The manager of the agency's accounting officer is the head of the financial department. 
The Court therefore considers it necessary to reduce the independence of the accounting officer by directly reporting to the Director (administrative matters) and the Steering Committee (functional matters) of the Agency. 
3.38.9. 
In addition, the Agency's mandate was significantly expanded in 2014: It now manages EU measures in various areas in cooperation with seven Commission Directorates-General. 
Despite substantial EUR changes in the Agency's procedures and a significant increase in its budget and staff, a recent revalidation of the accounting system took place in 2012. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (282). As a corresponding requirement applies to the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.38.11. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service submitted audit reports on the management of COSME (Competitiveness Programme for Enterprises and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises) by the Agency and the administrative procedures of the Agency's Human Resources Department(283). 
The Agency has drawn up action plans to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.38.12. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. (282) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(283) The Court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/215 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years The rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year was both for Title II (Administrative expenditure) at EUR 1 250 000 and 33 % (2015: EUR 998 324 or 14 %) and Title III (support of the Agency's operational activities) of EUR 2 550 000 and 62 % respectively (2015: 4 million euros or 65 % respectively. 
For Title II, transfers were mainly related to rent (0.6 million euros) and the acquisition of hardware that had not yet been delivered at the end of the year (0.5 million euros). 
The transfers under Title III concerned the evaluation and monitoring of the LIFE programme by external experts (1.5 million euro), ongoing ex-post reviews (0.5 million euro) and IT services (0.5 million euro), which had been commissioned in 2016 but only partially delivered at the end of the year and not yet invoiced. 
The Agency may draw up separate budget appropriations in order to better reflect the multi-dimensional nature of the activities and the inevitable distortions between signatures, deliveries and payments. 
The high rate of cancellation of appropriations from the previous year under Title I (staff expenditure) of EUR 32 000 and 8.3 % respectively shows that the need for appropriations has been overestimated. 
2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
De C 434/216 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.38.8. 
The Agency considers that its internal control system provides sufficient assurance for the effective separation of tasks and the independence of the accounting officer. 
The accounting officer was appointed by the Steering Committee. 
The Steering Committee shall adopt the preliminary and final accounts, the administrative budget and any further EUR changes. 
The principal services to be performed by the accounting officer shall be approved by the Director. 
The Agency considers that a change in the current reporting and organisational structure would not have a decisive impact on the risks and controls of the accounting claims. 
However, the Agency will closely monitor the situation and adjust the organisational and reporting obligations if necessary. 
3.38.9. The accounting management team started the validation of the accounting management systems in December 2017 and will complete these in 2018. 
3.38.10. 
In the field of procurement, the Agency has introduced electronic invoicing for certain IT providers since 2013, including complete electronic processing and an automated interface to the ABAC workflow. 
As of 2018, electronic invoicing will continue to be pursued and will gradually be applied to other suppliers, depending on their infrastructure and electronic equipment. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/217 3.39. 
Executive Agency of the European Research Council (ERCEA) INTRODUCTION 3.39.1. 
The Executive Agency of the European Research Council (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also established in Brssel, was established by Commission Decision 2008/37/EC (284). 
The Agency was established for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 January 2008. Established in December 2017. It is intended to manage the specific programme of the Seventh Framework Programme for Research. 
By Council Decision 2013/743/EU(285), the Agency was granted the role of the Agency, which is responsible for all aspects of the administrative and practical implementation of the Horizon 2020 research programme. It implements the measures taken within the framework of the specific objective of pioneering research through the activities of the European Research Council of Part I aScience excellence in the programme (286). 
3.39.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (287). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 47 total staff at 31. 1 December (1) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 43 461 PRFILITIES 3.39.3. 
We have a) the annual accounts of the Agency, consisting of the annual accounts (288) and the reports on budget implementation (289) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
The applicability of the invoice judgment on the eligibility of the invoice 3.39.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 9, 12.1.2008, p. 15. 
(285) OJ 
(286) Duration period 2014-2020. 
(287) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.erc.europa.eu. 
(288) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net mix, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(289) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/218 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on the basis of the annual accounts 3.39.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.39.6. 
3.39.7. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (290). As a corresponding requirement applies to the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. 
It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). By the end of 2017, the Agency had introduced the electronic invitation to tender and electronic invoicing for certain procedures, but not the electronic submission of tenders. 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.39.9. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on the procedures for the completion of FP7 (291) projects (292). 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.39.10. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(290) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(291) Seventh EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development. 
(292) The Court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/219 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations The tender opening and evaluation reports prepared by the Public Procurement Committee and the Agency's Recruitment Committee do not provide a complete and detailed picture of the procedures actually applied. 
The involuntary reports affect the transparency of these procedures. 
In its September 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency has taken a number of strategic and operational measures to improve the recruitment, retention and allocation process. 
In this context, the IAS concluded that the Agency has designed and implemented adequate human resources management to enable it to deploy a competent and committed workforce in such a way as to achieve its objectives. 
While no critical or particularly serious issues were identified, the Agency and the IAS agreed on an action plan to further improve this process in certain areas. 
At 1.3 million euros or 40 % (2015: 1.5 million euro or 43 %) remained high for Title III (operational expenditure) of committed appropriations for the following financial year, which was mainly due to year-on-year external inspections and communication measures. 
The high rate of transfer is at odds with the budgetary principle of honor. 
2016 2016 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/e.g.) 
De C 434/220 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.39.8. The electronic submission of tenders is currently limited to open procedures (the threshold is set by Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and amounted to EUR 135 000 in 2017. 
Since the Agency did not initiate such a procedure in 2017 and this will not be the case in 2018, the Agency was not able to use the electronic submission of tenders in 2017. 
In addition, the use of electronic submissions of tenders in accordance with the Commission's Roadmap at the end of 2018 will become mandatory for EU institutions and agencies. 
Therefore, the entry process started in 2018 and the Agency will be able to use electronic submission of tenders before the end of the year. 
In negotiated procedures, the Agency will use the electronic submission of tenders once the Commission has integrated this option into the module. 
3.39.9. 
Following the action plan drawn up by the Agency and approved by the IAS in relation to the completion of FP7 projects, appreciative measures were implemented by the ERCEA and submitted to the Internal Audit Service (IAS) for follow-up on 9.4.2018. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/221 3.40. 
FR INNOVATION AND NETWORKS EXECUTIVE AGENCY (INEA) INTRODUCTION 3.40.1. 
The Innovation and Networks Executive Agency ('INEA') established in Brussels by Commission Implementing Decision 2013/801/EU(293). It replaces the Transeuropic Transport Network Executive Agency and is its legal successor. 
The Agency was established for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31. Established in December 2024 for the management of measures taken by the Union in the field of Fazilitt aConnecting Europe, the Research and Innovation Programme aHorizon 2020, the Transeuropic Transport Network Programme and the Marco Polo Programme. 
3.40.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (294). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 24 total staff at 31. 1 December (1) Staff shall consist of officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
Source: Data provided by the Agency. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 22 225 PRFILITIES 3.40.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (295) and the reports on budget implementation (296) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the exclusiveness of the accounting procedure 3.40.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 352, 24.12.2013, p. 65. 
(294) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/inea. 
(295) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(296) Reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as hauling. 
De C 434/222 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.40.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.40.6. 
3.40.7. 
The following observations do not call into question the Court's assessment. COMMENTS ON THE SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.40.8. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (297). 
As a corresponding requirement applies to the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. 
It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). By the end of 2017, the Agency had implemented e-invoicing for certain procedures, but not the electronic tendering and electronic submission of tenders. 
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.40.9. 
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the grant management phase 2, project management and payments for the aConnecting Europe Fazilitt to INEA (298). 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.40.10. The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(297) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(298) The court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/223 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court's observations with 0.5 million euro and 48 % respectively (2015: For Title III, the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year was high, i.e. EUR 0.5 million or 51 % respectively. 
Year 2016 Status of corrections (completed/in progress/pending/n.e.c.) n.e.c. 
De C 434/224 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.40.8. 
The Agency had implemented electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017. 
The electronic call for tenders and the electronic submission of tenders have not been introduced as they do not concern the Agency. 
Tenders are carried out in nm only for the use of low-value posts or existing framework distortions managed by the services of the European Commission. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/225 3.41. 
FR EXECUTIVE AGENCY FOR RESEARCH (REA) INTRODUCTION 3.41.1. 
The Research Executive Agency (hereinafter referred to as "Area"), established in Brssel, was established by Commission Decision 2008/46/EC (299). 
The Agency was established for a limited period (1 January 2008-31). December 2017) established and aims to manage specific Union measures in the field of research. 
On 15 June 2009, the Agency officially received administrative and operational autonomy from the European Commission. 
On 13. By its Implementing Decision 2013/778/EU (300), the Commission lapsed the duration of the REA until 2024 and transferred parts of the new Framework Programme for Research and Innovation aHorizon 2020 to the Agency. 
3.41.2. 
The following table contains the main figures for the Agency (301). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 67 total staff at 31. December (2) 693 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. 
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. 
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL SUBMITTED BY THE COURT TO THE COUNCIL 63 628 PRFILITIES 3.41.3. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (302) and the reports on budget implementation (303) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the exclusiveness of the accounting procedure 3.41.4. 
According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts shall be issued on 31 December. December 2017 end year the Agency's merging and financial situation at 31 December 2017 In all material respects, the results of its advances and cash flows as well as the changes in the net turnover for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. 
L 11 of 15.1.2008, p. 9. 
(300) OJ 
(301) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/rea. 
(302) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net mix, as well as a summary of financial reporting principles and other congestion. 
(303) Reports on the implementation of the budget shall include the views summarising revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as congestion. 
De C 434/226 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.41.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.41.6. 
3.41.7. 
The following observations do not call into question the Court's assessment. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.41.8. 
The execution of the selection process for contract agents has weaknesses. 
The recruitment files and minutes of the selection committee meetings do not always contain the criteria used for the selection of candidates from the recruitment database (304). 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (305). 
As a corresponding requirement applies to the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched e-invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). 
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE 3.41.10. 
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented in May 2017 a review report on the completion of FP7 projects at the REA (306). 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.41.11. 
The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. 
(304) In addition, reference is made to the report on the Agency's human resources management submitted in 2016 by the Commission's Internal Audit Service. 
(305) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
(306) The court did not review these inspections. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/227 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations of the Court In its December 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency's overall human resources management was appropriate. 
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan for the finding included in the report. 
In another May 2016 audit report, the IAS concluded that the Agency, together with the Commission, has set up an efficient internal control system for the management of grants under Horizon 2020. 
The Agency and the IAS, together with the Commission, agreed on a plan for corrective measures on the finding considered very important. 
On behalf of the Commission, the Agency's performance was subjected to an external evaluation during the period 2012-2015, for which the final report was submitted in May 2016. 
The conclusion of the evaluation is that the Agency carried out its tasks during the period under consideration in an effective, efficient and costly manner, that its mandate for the Commission and the receptionists supervised by the Agency remains relevant and that the transfer of operational tasks from the Commission to the Agency has been successful. 
However, the assessment experts also provided opportunities for an even more effective and efficient design of the activities. The Agency and the Commission were invited to improve their internal dialogue and cooperation, communication in accordance with provisions and certain aspects in the field of IT and human resources management. 
The Agency and the Commission agreed on a plan for corrective measures. 
De C 434/228 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANTWORD OF THE AGENTUR 3.41.9. 
The implementation of the audited recruitment procedure, which identified weaknesses, took place in 2016. As a result, a reserve list was drawn up and adopted in 2016, which was used in 2017 to submit a job offer. 
The selection procedure of the REA for Contract Agents was reviewed in accordance with the IAS Recommendation of 2016 and implemented in 2017. 
The revised selection procedure for contract staff takes into account the requirements with regard to clearly documented search criteria for fun and pleasure checks, as well as admission and selection criteria. 
The search criteria used by the selection boards for the sighting of lumps of life are documented in their session minutes. 
Thus, the weaknesses mentioned by the Court in the gendered process are already overwhelmed. 
In the field of procurement, the REA relies on service agreements with the Commission or on the Commission's framework. 
The REA would initiate a specific procurement procedure only if there is a particular need not covered by these agreements or contracts. 
In 2017, REA only conducted a procurement procedure for a low value contract. 
The current tools for electronic tendering and electronic submission of tenders are only applicable to public procurement procedures that exceed the threshold of EUR 144 000. As REA has not so far launched a procurement procedure above this threshold, it has not been able to use the tools for electronic tendering and electronic submission of tenders in 2017. 
In addition, the introduction of the electronic tender and electronic submission of tenders in accordance with the Commission's roadmap for all EU institutions and agencies becomes mandatory at the end of 2018, and thus the implementation process did not start until 2018. 
The Agency is already using electronic invoicing and will also use the modules for the electronic tendering and electronic submission of tenders upon launching a tender procedure as soon as these modules also cover medium and low value levels. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/229 3.42. 
FR CONSUMERS, HEALTH, AGRICULTURE AND FOOD EXECUTIVE AGENCY (CHAFEA) INTRODUCTION 3.42.1. 
The Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency (hereinafter 'the Agency') was established on 1 January 2005 (2005-2008: Executive Agency for the Health Programme (PHEA), 2008-2013: Executive Agency for Health and Consumers (EAHC), since 1 January 2014: Consumer, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency (307). 
The Agency is based in Luxembourg. Her mandate was held until 31. December 2024. 
The Agency shall implement the programme of Community action in the field of health, the consumer programme and the 'Better Training for Safer Foods' initiative. 
3.42.2. 
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (308). 
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 10 total staff at 31. 1. The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. 
We have (a) the annual accounts of the Agency consisting of the annual accounts (309) and the reports on budget implementation (310) for the 31st year. The financial year ending December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Exclusiveness of the accounting procedure on the exclusiveness of the accounting procedure 3.42.4. 
(307) Commission Implementing Decision 2013/770/EU 
(308) Further information about the Agency's needs and activities can be found on its website http://ec.europa.eu/chafea/. 
(309) The annual financial statements include the merging perspective, the view of financial results, the statement of cash flow, the table of changes to the net merger, as well as a summary of the basic accounting principles and other congestion. 
(310) Reports on the implementation of the budget include the views summarising appreciable revenue and expenditure benefits, as well as hauling. 
De C 434/230 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the advance income on which the annual accounts are based on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.42.5. According to our assessment, those of the annual accounts for the 31st Revenue underpinning the financial year ending December 2017 in all material respects legally and properly. 
Payments Judgment on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.42.6. 
Emphasis on a situation 3.42.7. 
The agency's accounting officer has been absent since the end of November 2017. 
On 13. In December 2017, the Agency's Steering Committee appointed a Management Board as an accounting officer ad interim, despite the fact that the Management Board represents the fully authorised authorising officer. 
This is contrary to Article 28 of the Agency's financial rules, according to which authorising authority and accounting are separate functions and exclude each other. 
3.42.8. 
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.42.9. 
In 2017, the Agency failed to document recruitment procedures. 
As a result, the basic principles of transparency and equal treatment of candidates could be challenged. 
In 2017, the Agency encountered difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of bidders in the case of low and medium-value procurement procedures. 
She received only one offer for each of the proceedings. 
3.42.11. 
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (311). 
3.42.12. 
The Agency publishes vacancy notices for temporary agents on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and make it possible for Brgers to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies. COMMENTS ON BUDGET 3.42.13. 
The Agency's budget planning has weaknesses. For Title III of the budget, 1.6 million euro and 63 % respectively (2016: 1.2 million euro or 48 %) committed appropriations in large amounts from 2017 to 2018. 
FOLLOW-UP OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.42.14. 
The annex contains a review of the correction measures taken on the basis of observations made by the Court from previous years. (311) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) e-government. 
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/231 DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years' observations The Agency cancelled 0.2 million euro or 18 % of its 2015 appropriations (2014: 0.1 million euros or 14 %), which indicates Mngel in their planning. 
The Agency amounted to 1.1 million euro and 48 % (2015: 0.9 million euro or 52 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (expenditure related to the Agency's activity) to the following financial year. 
These transfers mainly concern IT services and other studies that have been commissioned but have not yet been completed or completed by the end of the year. 
The Agency cancelled 0.2 million euro, or 17 % of the funds transferred from 2015 to 2016, indicating an involuntary needs planning. 
Year 2015 2016 Status of the corrective measure (completed/current/pending/e.g.) 
De C 434/232 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANNEX OF THE AGENTURY CONTROL OF A SACHVERHAL 3.42.7. The annual accounts were drawn up and signed by the appointed and reinstated accounting officer. The separation of tasks will be strictly adhered to in the future. 
3.42.9. The Agency accepts the Court's observation that the recruitment file analysed by the Court was not adequately documented. 
However, CHAFEA ensured that no candidate was preferred in this competition, as all candidates were treated equally. 
3.42.10. 
CHAFEA carried out all the steps recommended in the Financial Regulation for these two low- and medium-value increases: The ex ante announcement took place as required, and the number of candidates required by law was invited to submit a tender, with all candidates having a lot of experience in tenders and the services requested. 
With regard to the time spent on submission of their tenders to the tenderers, CHAFEA adhered to DG BUDGET's vademecum for procurement. 
CHAFEA is currently testing several IT modules for electronic procurement, including the electronic submission of tenders. 
The first tender, in which tenders are submitted electronically, will be tested in the third quarter of 2018. 
CHAFEA will fully comply with the EU Commission's recommendation to implement the electronic tender submission system before the end of 2018. 
CHAFEA agrees with the remark that the publication of vacancy notices for temporary staff on the EPSO website can increase its visibility. 3.42.13. 
The Agency accepts the Court's comments. 
The Agency will continue its efforts to further reduce the coverage and C8 cancellation rates. 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/233 This report, including the 41 references to the individual agencies and bodies, was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Neven MATES, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting on 18 September 2018. 
Official Journal of the European Union C 373 58. Year 10 November 2015 Issue in German Content 2015/C 373/01 2015/C 373/02 Notifications and notices IV Information INFORMATION OF ORGANE, INSTRUCTIONS AND SOCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Court of Auditors Annual report of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 together....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 Annual report of the Court of Auditors on the activities of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2014, together with the Commission's replies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
289 DE DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/1 IV (Information) INFORMATION OF ORGANE, INSTRUCTIONS AND SOCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION CONTROL The Court of Auditors of the European Union, in accordance with Article 287(1) and (4) TFEU, Article 148(1) and Article 162(1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Articles 43, 48 and 60 of the Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 10 February 2008 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Articles 43, 48 and 60 of Council Regulation (EC) No 185/2008 European Development Fund, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 567/2014, adopted its YEARS REPORTs on the financial year 2014 at its meeting of 10 September 2015. 
These reports, together with the replies of the institutions to the Court's observations, were sent to the institutions responsible for discharge and to the other institutions. 
Members of the Court of Auditors: Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (President), Igors LUDBORŽS, Jan KINŠT, Kersti KALJULAID, Karel PINXTEN, Henri GRETHEN, Szabolcs FAZAKAS, Louis GALEA, Ladislav BALKO, Augustyn KUBIK, Milan Martin CVIKL, Rasa BUDBERGYTEED, Lazaros S. LAZAROU, Hans Gustaf WESSBERG, Pietro RUSSO, Ville ITÄLÄLÄ, Kevin CARDIFF, Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA, Iliana IVANOVA, George PUFAN, Neven MATES, Alex BRENNINKMEIJER, Daničle LAMARQUE, Nikolaos MILIONIS, Phil WYNN OWEN, Klaus-Heiner LEHNE, Oskar HERICS, Bettina JAKOBSEN. 
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/3 YEAR REPORT ON THE EXPERIENCE OF THE HOUSE PLAN (2015/C 373/01) 
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/5 INHALT General Initiation.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
Chapter2 - Budgetary and financial management............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Chapter3 -EU budgetandresulting...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Chapter5 - "CompetitivenessforWachstumundEmployment"............................ 
Chapter 6 - "Economic, social and territorial cohesion".................................................................... 
Chapter7 - "Natural Resources".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Page 7 9 65 83 127 147 165 213 261 275 
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/7 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 0.1. 
The European Court of Auditors is the body responsible for auditing the finances of the European Union (EU) in accordance with the Treaty. 
As an external auditor of the EU, we contribute to improving EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens. 
More detailed information on our work can be found in the Annual Activity Report, which is available on our website www.eca.europa.eu. 
This is our 38th annual report on the implementation of the EU budget; it concerns the financial year 2014. 
The annual report on the European Development Funds shall be presented separately. 
0.3. 
The general budget of the EU shall be adopted annually by the Council and the European Parliament. 
Our annual report, together with the special reports, forms the basis for the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament, following a Council recommendation, decides whether the Commission has satisfactorily carried out its budget implementation tasks. 
At the same time as the transmission to the European Parliament and the Council, we send our annual report to the national parliaments. 
0.4. 
The central element of our annual report is the statement on the reliability of the consolidated accounts of the European Union and the legality and regularity of transactions (hereinafter referred to as the "order of transactions"). 
We complement this Statement of Assurance with specific assessments on all major areas of activity of the EU. 
0.5. 
The chapter structure now reflects the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF); our report is therefore even more relevant. 
The financial framework entered into force in 2014 and aims to determine the size and distribution of EU spending over the period up to 2020. 
This should make it easier for readers to establish a link between the findings of our report and the relevant budgetary and accounting information. 
0.6. 
There are no separate financial statements for each MFF heading; therefore, the conclusions submitted in the context of specific assessments do not constitute an audit opinion. 
0.7. 
This year's report is structured as follows: - Chapter 1 contains the statement of assurance and a summary of the results of our audit on the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of transactions. - In Chapter 2, our findings on budgetary and financial management are presented. - Chapter 3 contributes to our strategic objective of improving the EU's public accountability. The focus is on the extent to which the performance framework enables the Commission to monitor and manage progress towards Europe 2020. - Chapter 4 contains our findings on revenue. - Chapters 5 to 9 (for MFF headings 1a, 1b, 2, 4 and 5)(1) provide the results of our audits on the regularity of transactions and the audit of selected systems and annual activity reports. 
0.8. 
The Commission's replies (or, where applicable, the replies of other EU institutions and bodies) to our comments are included in the report. When explaining our findings and conclusions, the respective replies of the audited body are taken into account. 
However, as an external auditor, it is our sole responsibility to submit our audit findings, to draw conclusions from these findings and to carry out an independent and impartial assessment of the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of the transactions. 
(1) How do not provide specific assessments on MFF heading 3 ('Security and citizenship') and 6 ('Compensation payments'). 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/9 DE CHAPTER 1 Statement of Assurance and Statement of Assurance submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council - Statement of assurance from the independent auditor Introduction of EU expenditure is a significant tool for achieving the policy objectives Audit findings for the financial year 2014 The annual accounts did not show any material misrepresentation of transactions: Our general audit results are consistent, but point to a material error rate There are many forms of corrective action with different impacts The Commission's Synthesis Report confirms material error in the transactions Supposed fraud cases are forwarded to OLAF Conclusions I-XII 1.1-1.3 1.1-1.3 1.4-1.58 1.4-1.8 1.9-1.29 1.30-1.44 1.45-1.57 1.58 1.59-1.66 Annex 1.1-1.3 - Annex 1.3 - Annex 1.4 - Annex 1.5 - Audit approach and audit methodology Follow-up of previous comments on the reliability of the accounting statements Extracts from the consolidated error calculation 2014 The estimated error rate for the 2015 most-adjusted historical error-probable year 
De C 373/10 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11,2015 THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL REGULATIOND REQUIREMENT OF THE HOFES - MEMBER OF THE UNABILITY CONTROL I. We have (a) the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union, the consolidated annual accounts(1) and the aggregated statements on the implementation of the budget (2) for the annual accounts of the European Union on 31. The financial year ended December 2014 and approved by the Commission on 23 July 2015 and (b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying those accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
Responsibility of Management II. In accordance with Articles 317 and 318 TFEU and the Financial Regulation, the Commission is responsible for the preparation and proper presentation of the consolidated accounts of the European Union on the basis of internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector and for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying it. 
This responsibility includes the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures as necessary for the preparation and presentation of financial statements free of material, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation. 
The Commission has the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the European Union (Article 317 TFEU). 
Responsibility of the examiner III. On the basis of our audit, it is our task to provide the European Parliament and the Council with a statement on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying it. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing as well as the professional behaviour requirements of the IFAC and the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions of INTOSAI. 
These standards require us to comply with professional conduct requirements and to plan and carry out the audit in such a way as to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the consolidated accounts of the European Union are free from material misrepresentation and the underlying transactions are legal and regular. 
IV. An audit involves carrying out audit procedures in order to obtain evidence of the values and other information contained in the consolidated accounts, as well as the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying it. 
The selection of the audit procedures is at the discretion of the auditor. This includes assessing the risks of material, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation in the consolidated accounts and material, intended or unintentional, breaches of the European Union legislation in the underlying transactions. 
When assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and proper presentation of the consolidated accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in order to plan audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not with the aim of issuing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system. 
An audit shall also include the assessment of the adequacy of the accounting policies applied, the reasonableness of the estimated values in the accounts and the overall presentation of the consolidated accounts. 
V. In the area of revenue, we use the macro-economic aggregates relevant to their calculation as a starting point for our assessment of own resources based on VAT and derived from gross national income and assess the Commission's systems for processing these data up to the receipt of Member States' contributions and until they are declared in the consolidated accounts. 
In the area of traditional own resources, we examine the accounts of customs authorities and analyse the tax flows until they are received by the Commission and until the amounts are entered in the accounts. 
(1) The consolidated financial statements include the balance sheet, the statement of income, the cash flow statement, changes in net assets, as well as a summary of key accounting rules and other explanations (including segment reporting). 
De 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/11 VI. In the area of expenditure, we check the payment transactions after the expenditure has been made, recorded and accepted. This audit shall be carried out for all types of payments, except advances, (including payments for the acquisition of assets) only after they have been made. 
Advance payments shall be audited if the beneficiary submits or is required to provide proof of their proper use and the advance is settled or can be recovered. 
VII. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and suitable to serve as the basis for our audit opinions. 
Reliability of the accounts audit opinion on the reliability of accounts VIII. In our opinion, the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union for the 31st year The assets and financial position of the Union at 31 December 2014 In all material respects, the results of their operations and their cash flows and the changes in net assets for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the Financial Regulation and the accounting rules based on internationally accepted accounting standards for the public sector, are appropriate in all material respects. Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenues Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts IX. In our opinion, these are the annual accounts for the 31st year. Revenue underpinned by the end of December 2014 in all material respects lawfully and properly. 
The basis for the failure of the audit opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts X. The expenditure recorded in 2014 on headings 1 to 4 of the multiannual financial framework (3) covering operational appropriations (3) is materially affected by errors. 
Our estimated error rate in the payments underlying the annual accounts is 4.4 %. 
Our conclusion is supported by the analysis of the amounts at risk as set out by the Commission in the Synthesis Report. 
Failed audit opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts XI. In our opinion, these are the annual accounts for the 31st year. Payments underlying the end of December 2014 are materially affected by errors due to the importance of the facts described in the paragraph "Base for the failed audit opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts". 
(3) These headings are dealt with in Chapters 5 to 8 of this annual report. 
10 September 2015 Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President European Court of Auditors 12 rue Alcide De Gasperi, 1615 Luxembourg, LUXEMBOURG 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/13 DE NOTICES OF THE HOFES INTRODUCTION EU expenditure is an important tool for achieving policy objectives 1.1. 
EU spending is an important tool for achieving policy objectives. 
Other important instruments are legislation, free movement of goods, services and capital and free movement of persons throughout the Union. 
On average, EU spending amounts to 1.9 % of total government expenditure of EU Member States (see Figure 1.1). 
Under the Treaty, our role is inter alia - to assess whether the use of the EU budget is in line with relevant laws and other legislation; - to deliver our opinion on the annual accounts of the EU; - report on the economy, efficiency and effectiveness (4) of EU spending; - To present opinions on legislative proposals with financial implications. 
With our audit work to underpin the Declaration of Assurance, we fulfil the first and second of these objectives. 
This audit work allows us to identify risks that impair the economy, profitability and effectiveness. 
It also provides an important input on the opinions we make on proposed financial rules. 
(4) In Article 30(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union 
L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1), these terms are defined as follows: 'The principle of economy requires that the resources used by the institution concerned in its [sic] activities be made available at the right time, in sufficient quantity and quality and at the lowest possible cost. 
The principle of economic efficiency concerns the optimal relationship between the resources used and the results achieved. 
The principle of effectiveness concerns the achievement of certain set objectives and results.' 
De C 373/14 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Figure 1.1 - EU expenditure 2014 in each Member State as a share of total government expenditure Sources: Expenditure of the European Union (accounting data from the European Commission, compiled by the Court). 
Total government expenditure of the Member States (Eurostat - Financial statistics of the general government sector - Government revenue, expenditure and main aggregates - Total government expenditure 2014) (http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/government-finance-statistics/data/database). 
For explanation of country codes, see Annex 1.5. 
COURT'S COMMENTS 1.3. 
In this chapter of the Annual Report - we provide background information on the Statement of Assurance as well as an overview of our audit approach (see Annex 1.1), our audit findings and audit conclusions; - let's analyse the nature of the various risks associated with EU spending; - let us describe the measures taken by the Commission following comments and recommendations on the reliability of the accounts we presented in previous annual reports (see Annex 1.2). 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/15 DE NOTICES OF THE HOFES Audit findings ZUM HAUSHALTSYHR 2014 The annual accounts did not show any material misrepresentation of 1.4. 
Our comments relate to the European Union's consolidated accounts (5) (the "annual accounts") for the financial year 2014. 
We received the annual accounts together with the accounting officer's statement of completeness on 23 July 2015 (6). 
The annual accounts are accompanied by an analysis document relating to the financial statements "Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis"(7), which is not the subject of our audit opinion. 
However, in line with audit principles, we have verified its consistency with the information contained in the annual accounts. 
1.5. 
The annual accounts (see extracts in Annex 1.3) show that the total liabilities at 31. December 2014 amounted to EUR 220.7 billion compared to total assets of EUR 162.7 billion. 
The economic result for 2014 has a deficit of EUR 11.3 billion (see also paragraphs 2.12-2.13). 
Our audit found that the annual accounts had no material misrepresentation (see also Annex 1.2). 
Our comments on the EU's budgetary and financial management can be found in Chapter 2. 
(5) The consolidated accounts consist of (a) the consolidated financial statements, which include the balance sheet (in which the assets and liabilities are reported at the end of the year), the statement of income (in which the income and expenses of the year are reported), the cash flow statement (in which changes in the accounts affect cash and cash equivalents) and changes in net assets and related notes; the aggregated statements of implementation of the budget covering the revenue and expenditure of the financial year and explanations thereof. 
(6) We received the provisional accounts together with the accounting officer's completeness statement on 31 March 2015, the last possible date for submission in accordance with the Financial Regulation (see Article 147 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012). 
The final accounts were received eight days before the deadline of 31 July set out in Article 148. 
The revised version of the Commission's Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis analysis document was sent to the Court on 1 September 2015. 
(7) See Guideline on recommended practice 2 "Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis" of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB). 
C 373/16 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 RECOMMENDATIONS 1.7. 
In 2014, the Commission amended the presentation of the annual accounts several times. 
These amendments aim to take account of the new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and further align with international standards. 
Significant improvements have been made in the presentation of certain explanatory notes to the financial statements (8). 
Points affecting the annual accounts 1.8. 
The following factors affect the annual accounts: 1.8.a) The Commission has made progress in presenting (a) Explanatory Note 6 to the annual accounts (on "protection of the EU budget"), as discussed in point 1.13 of our 2013 Annual Report and point 2 of this year's follow-up table (Annex 1.2). 
The explanation now contains more targeted information. 
For the cohesion area, it shows the extent to which corrections are made before expenditure is recorded, during implementation and closure. 
Furthermore, although not always in quantified form, the explanation now includes a description of the impact of corrective measures (such as the creation of assigned revenue, expenditure withdrawn and replaced by Member States, etc.) on the EU budget (9). b) Note 2.5.2 on pre-financing (pre-financing to Member States) shows that the Commission has limited information on the use of the funds made available to the Commission for financial instruments under shared management (EUR 3.8 billion) and other aid schemes (EUR 3.6 billion). 
The Commission may need to make significant adjustments at the end of the 2007-2013 programming period. 
(8) Including a consolidated presentation of current and non-current assets and liabilities and a simplified presentation of segment reporting. 
(9) In Note 6 to the 2015 financial statements, the Commission seeks to take account of the June 2015 Court of Justice decisions annulling decisions on financial corrections of EUR 457 million. 
Note 2.10 'Provisions' already treats those decisions as adjustments due to events following the closure date (judgment of the Court of Justice of 24 June 2015 in Joined Cases C-549/12 P and C-54/13 P annulling two Commission decisions for an amount of EUR 94 million in connection with ERDF programmes in Germany and judgment in Case C-263/13 P annulling three Commission decisions for an amount of EUR 363 million for ERDF programmes in Spain). 
These decisions were taken in relation to expenditure under the Operational Programmes 1994-1999. 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REQUIREMENTS OF COMMISSION C 373/17 DE NOTICES OF THE HOFES Regularity of transactions: Our general audit results are consistent, but point to a significant error rate 1.9. 
We examine the EU's revenue and expenditure to assess whether they are in line with relevant laws and other legislation. 
We present our audit results on the revenue in Chapter 4 and the expenditure in Chapters 5 to 9 (see Table 1.1). 
1.10. 
Revenue was not materially affected by errors (see point 4.26). 
In terms of expenditure, we still see a significant error rate. 
At 4.4 %, the estimated level of error in expenditure (after taking into account the relevant corrective measures, see point 1.32 (10)) was similar to the 2013 rate (4.5 % (11)) (see Table 1.1). 
Expenditure under MFF heading 5 ('Administration') was not materially affected by errors (see paragraph 9.15). 
For all other operational expenditure headings, expenditure was materially affected by errors (see paragraphs 5.32-5.33, 6.76-6.77, 7.72-7.73 and 8.26-8.27). 
MFF heading Verified population (billion euro) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Heading 1a 13,0 5,6 3,1 8.1 Heading 1b 55,7 5,7 3,1 8.1 Heading 2 57.5 3, 6 2,7 4,6 Heading 4 7,4 2,7 0.9 4,4 Heading 5 8,8 0.5 0.1 0.9 (10) "Source" corrections to applications which did not result in disbursement or reduced payments should not be compared with the level of final payments. 
(11) The estimated level of error identified by us in the 2013 annual report was 4.7 %. 
The comparable estimated rate shown here is 0.2 percentage points lower, as our new approach to quantifying the breaches of public procurement rules has been used (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14). 
C 373/18 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 DE MFF heading Verified population (billion euro) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Heading 3, 6 and others 2.1 - - - 144.5 4.4 3.3 5.5 Chapters of the Annual Report Other (1) Total revenue Estimated error rate 2013 (%) - 4.5 0 143,9 0 0 0 (1) We do not provide any specific assessment and chapter for MFF heading 3 ('Security and Citizenship') and 6 ('Compensation payments') and other expenditure (special instruments outside the MFF 2014-2020 such as the Emergency Aid Reserve, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the European Union Solidarity Fund and the Flexibility Instrument). 
However, the audit work in these areas contributes to our overall conclusion on the expenditure of the financial year 2014. Source: European Court of Auditors. 
COURT'S COMMENTS 1.11. 
Overall, the audit results have remained relatively consistent over the past three years at a level well above our materiality benchmark (see Chart 1.2). 
COMMISSION REPLY 1.11. 
The Commission notes that the error rate reported by the Court is an annual estimate that takes into account accounting corrections of project expenditure made before the Court's audit is announced. 
The Commission notes that it is bound by the Financial Regulation, which stipulates in Article 32(2)(e) that its internal control system should ensure, inter alia, that its internal control system should 'adequately deal with the risks associated with the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multi-annual nature of the programmes and the nature of the payments concerned'. 
In the 2014 Synthesis Report (COM(2015) 279 final), the Commission estimated the future impact of correction mechanisms at EUR 2.7 billion, representing 1.9 % of payments from the EU budget. 
The Commission will continue to carry out its monitoring function by carrying out financial corrections and recoveries at a level corresponding to the level of irregularities and deficiencies identified throughout the period and after the closure of the programmes. 
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/19 Figure 1.2 - The estimated error rate (most likely error rate, MLE - most likely error) (2012-2014) (1) The estimated error rate for 2012 and 2013 has been adjusted to reflect the new approach to quantifying serious breaches of public procurement rules (see paragraph 1.13). 
Source: European Court of Auditors. 
COURT'S COMMENTS 1.12. 
EU spending consists mainly of two types of spending programmes with very different risk patterns (12): - programmes based on payment entitlements where payment depends on whether certain conditions are met; such programmes include scholarships for students and research grants (chapter 5), direct support for farmers (chapter 7), direct budget support(13) (chapter 8) and salaries and pensions (Chapter 9); - Reimbursement schemes for which the EU reimburses eligible costs for eligible activities, such schemes include research projects (chapter 5), schemes for investments in regional and rural development (chapters 6 and 7), training programmes (chapter 6) and development projects (chapter 8). 
(12) These different risks are discussed in more detail in paragraphs 1.20-1.22. 
(13) Budget support payments are a contribution to or to the general budget of a State for a specific policy or objective (see also paragraphs 8.7 and 8.8). 
De NOTES OF THE HOFES A new audit approach... 
For 2014, we redesigned our approach to quantifying serious breaches of public procurement rules. 
This approach clarifies how we assess the impact of these infringements. 
In particular, we have introduced a proportional approach to the calculation of errors related to the modification of contracts. 
1.14. 
In order to ensure the comparability of the results presented in this report, we adjusted the figures for 2012 and 2013 in Table 1.1 and in Figures 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 in line with this new approach. 
Annex 1.4 contains the unadjusted historical data on the estimated error rates for the period 2009-2013. 
This adjustment reduced the estimated total error rate by 0.2 % in 2013 and by 0.3 % in 2012. 
The adjustment does not affect the conclusions we reached in relation to those years and remains a clearly significant error rate. 
1.15. 
In 2015, we will align our approach to cross-compliance with the amended regulatory framework for the Common Agricultural Policy. 
While we will continue to report on the information provided by the Commission on cross-compliance, this element will no longer be the subject of our audit procedures. 
This year, we found numerous cross-compliance errors with regard to one in four of the farms visited. 
The share of these errors in our estimated total error rate is 0.2 percentage points (2013: 0.2)(14) and the error rate for the chapter "Natural resources" 0.6 percentage points (2013: 0,5). 
The Commission welcomes the change in the Court's approach from 2015. 
For 2014, it reiterates its view that cross-compliance does not affect the eligibility conditions for payments (see the Commission's reply to paragraph 7.7). 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/21 DE NOTES OF THE HOFES... and a new structure for our Annual Report 1.16. 
As described in the general introduction (paragraphs 0.5-0.7), we have redesigned the chapter structure of our annual report. 
For the sake of comparability (Figure 1.3), it is illustrated below what the audit results of last year would look like if both the new chapter structure and the new approach to quantifying the breaches of public procurement rules had been used (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14). 
We used these figures in Table 1.1. 
Figure 1.3 - Reclassification of audit results for 2013 based on the structure of the 2014 annual report and taking into account the new approach to quantifying breaches of procurement rules Source: European Court of Auditors taking into account the revised structure of the annual report and the new approach to quantifying serious breaches of public procurement rules. 
1.17. 
As shown in Figure 1.4, the cohesion sector contributes most to our estimated level of error for 2014, followed by the "Natural Resources", "Competitiveness" and "Global Europe". 
This distribution is consistent with our findings for 2013. 
De C 373/22 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Figure 1.4 - Contribution to the estimated total error rate 2014 by MFF heading Source: European Court of Auditors. 
COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.18. 
Eligibility errors in the reimbursement schemes are the main share of the errors detected for 2014 (see also paragraphs 1.20-1.22, Figure 1.5 and Figure 1.6). (a) The estimated level of error for reimbursement is 5.5 % (2013: 5.6 %. 
Typical errors in this area include: - Inclusion of ineligible costs in the cost statements, - ineligible projects, activities or beneficiaries, - serious breaches of the procurement rules in the course of procurement, - serious breaches of the procurement rules during the execution of the contract (i.e. changes to the contract and the award of additional works). 
Commission reply 1.18.a) The Commission has also identified similar problems in its audits. 
During the 2007-2013 programming period, significant efforts were made by the Commission to identify the root cause of the problems and to implement corrective measures where appropriate. 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/23 DE NOTES OF THE HOFES b) For programmes based on payment entitlements, the estimated level of error is 2.7 % (2013: 3.0 %. 
Typical errors in this area include: - excessive land indications by farmers, - payments made to farmers by administrative errors. 
Figure 1.5 - Share of the estimated total error rate by type of error Source: European Court of Auditors. 
1.19. 
The figures for 2013 in Figure 1.5 were prepared on the same basis as for 2014, i.e. using the approach described in point 1.13. 
C 373/24 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE HOFES type of expenditure and error rates are closely linked 1.20. 
We analysed the relationship between the type of expenditure and the risk of error. 
EU expenditure is characterised by the extent to which the correct calculation of payments to beneficiaries depends on information provided by the beneficiaries themselves. 
This applies to the largest category of expenditure schemes based on payment entitlements: the area-related aid paid to farmers. 
This is particularly important in the area of refund schemes: Beneficiaries must provide information in their application to prove that they have participated in an eligible action and incurred costs eligible for reimbursement. 
All modes of management are affected by this (15). 
1.21. 
Figure 1.6 is based on all audits carried out in relation to EU expenditure over the last two years for both the annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Fund (16). 
The cash flows are grouped according to their nature. 
The size of the circles in this figure represents the respective share of total expenditure, with their respective positioning along the 45-degree line indicating the corresponding estimated error rate; their color can be seen whether they are based on claims or reimbursement-based expenses. 
1.22. 
This figure includes both elements of proper discretion (assessment of the impact of systems and risks related to the type of operation - see Annex 1.1, paragraph 1) as well as empirical elements (measurement of estimated error rates over a two-year period). 
On the one hand, the aim is to respond to the wishes of our audience for more information on the different risk profiles, on the other hand, to assist the Commission in taking action in relation to areas with persistently high error rates. 
1.20. 
The integrated management and control system (IACS), which includes the Land Parcel Identification System (LPIS), contributes significantly to the prevention of errors and the reduction of the error rate (see paragraph 7.32). 
LPIS is established and maintained by the national authorities. 
Payments to final beneficiaries are only possible after their claim has been reconciled with the data available in the area identification system. 
Thanks to LPIS, the error rate for area-related aid is lower than for all other types of aid under shared management. 
The Commission considers that Box 1.2 and Box 1.3 confirm this view. 
(15) Direct management (budget directly implemented by the European Commission), indirect management (non-EU partner countries, international organisations, etc.), shared management (shared budget implementation between the Commission and Member States). 
(16) Assessment based on the same approach for both years (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14). 
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/25 Figure 1.6 - Link between type of operation, risk and estimated error rate in EU operations (2013-2014) (1) The reimbursement for the heading "Global Europe" includes projects financed by several donors, which in practice have many characteristics of the schemes based on payment entitlements and have lower error rates. 
C 373/26 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMMISSION OF THE HOFES The results in the different areas of expenditure show different error patterns 1.23. "Competitiveness" (Chapter 5): The estimated error rate is 5.6 %, above the corresponding results for 2013 (4.0 % (17). The majority of expenditure is based on reimbursement and the errors in this area mainly reflect the different categories of ineligible costs (mainly personnel costs, other direct costs and indirect costs). 
1.24. "Cohesion" (chapter 6): The estimated error rate is 5.7 %, above the corresponding results for 2013 (5.3 % (17)). 
Almost all expenditure in this area takes the form of reimbursement. 
The main causes of error are serious breaches of procurement rules (around half of the estimated error rate), followed by ineligible costs in expenditure declarations (more than a quarter of the estimated error rate). 
Infringements of the State aid rules and ineligible projects constitute the remaining part of the errors. 
1.25. "Natural resources" (chapter 7): The estimated error rate is 3.6 %, below the corresponding results for 2013 (4.4 % (17). 
The European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) accounts for more than three quarters of the expenditure in this area, and this fund is less prone to error than the rural development sub-sector, for which we have long seen high levels of error, in particular for expenditure incurred on the basis of reimbursement. 
Overall, excessive land or animal numbers by farmers contributed around one third of the estimated error rate. 
Errors related to ineligible beneficiaries, activities or expenditure accounted for the second highest share (approximately a quarter of the estimated error rate). 
The main remaining shares are cross-compliance (one-sixth) and administrative errors (one-sixth). 
1.23. 
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 5 of the Annual Report (points 5.6-5.17). 
1.24. 
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 6 of the Annual Report (points 6.23-6.45 and 6.76). 
1.25. 
The lower error rate for the EAGF reflects the effectiveness of IACS and in particular LPIS when properly implemented in terms of avoiding errors from the very first moment of the process. 
The Commission considers that IACS as a whole is a sound system for managing CAP expenditure. 
See also the replies in points 1.15 and 1.20, paragraphs 7.15 to 7.19 and paragraphs 7.25 to 7.29. 
(17) This comparative figure takes into account both the reassignment of the budget lines - to ensure that chapters reflect the MFF headings - and the new approach to non-compliance with public procurement rules. 
See also Figure 1.3). 
THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.26. "Europe in the World" (Chapter 8): The estimated error rate is 2.7 %, above the corresponding results for 2013 (2.1 %(18)(19). 
Ineligible costs reimbursed by the Commission account for more than half of the total error rate. 
Payments for non-provided works and services, or deliveries not made, account for one quarter of the total error rate. 
The rest is due to lack of supporting documents (around one-tenth of the estimated error rate), the incorrect calculation of expenditure and non-compliance with procurement rules. 
1.27. "Administration" (Chapter 9): The estimated error rate is 0.5 %, which represents a decrease compared to the corresponding results for 2013 (1.1 %(18). 
Most of the expenditure in this area relates to salaries, pensions and allowances paid by the EU institutions and bodies. 
A small number of errors in the allowances accounted for the largest share of the error rate in this area, which is not substantial overall. 
1.28. 
As explained in the general introduction, we do not create a separate chapter for expenditure not covered by MFF headings 1, 2, 4 and 5. 
The remaining expenditure totalling 2.1 billion euros (1.5 % of the expenditure affected by our audit) is therefore reported in this chapter (20). 
Out of the total of 2.1 billion euros, an amount of 0.5 billion euros is attributable to expenditure incurred over and by ten agencies that are the subject of our special annual reports. 
The main errors identified in this area consisted of reimbursement of ineligible costs (see Box 1.1). 
(18) This comparative figure takes into account both the reassignment of the budget lines - to ensure that chapters reflect the MFF headings - and the new approach to non-compliance with public procurement rules. 
(19) The majority of the expenditure of the chapter "External relations, external assistance and enlargement" of the Annual Report for the financial year 2013 remained in the corresponding chapter for the MFF heading "Global Europe"; a small proportion of this expenditure is now dealt with in the chapter "Economic, social and territorial cohesion". See also Figure 1.3. 
(20) See footnote 1 of Table 1.1. 
(21) European Judicial Cooperation Agency, European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union, European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, European Asylum Support Office, European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, European Food Safety Authority, European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, European Police College, European Police Office, European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. 
C 373/28 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE HOFES Box 1.1 - Example of errors in the reimbursement of costs for a project under MFF heading 3 "Security and Citizenship" were the subject of a sample of the Commission's payment to a beneficiary acting as coordinator of a cooperation project under the "Fundamental Rights and Citizenship" programme. 
The beneficiary public body assigned two permanent staff (officials) to the project half-day; she invoiced part of her salaries in the project cost statement. 
Seconded staff will only incur additional costs if additional staff need to be recruited in order to replace officials in their usual duties and incur costs as a result. 
Since the beneficiary body has not made any arrangements to replace officials, these costs are not eligible. 
In total, the ineligible costs declared by the beneficiary entity amounted to EUR 58 000 of the total invoiced cost of EUR 237 000. 
We identified ineligible costs for eight of the 25 projects that were the subject of the sample for MFF heading 3, which were reimbursed by the Commission. 
Box 1.1 - Example of errors in reimbursing costs for a project under MFF heading 3 "Security and Citizenship" The Commission was aware of the difficulties faced by public bodies in complying with the eligibility rules applicable to staff costs for public bodies (representing other staff to replace the official staff in their usual duties). 
For this reason, from 2011 onwards, the Commission amended the eligibility rules applicable to public sector bodies, taking advantage of the flexibility provided by the Implementing Rules of the Financial Regulation. 
Therefore, the ineligible costs identified by the Court in the above-mentioned grant (staff costs for staff in public bodies that do not allocate replacements) would now be considered eligible. 
1.29. 
The estimated level of error for expenditure under shared management is 4.6 % (2013: 4.9 %(22) and all other operational expenditure(23) 4.6 % (2013: 3.7 %(22). 
The estimated error rate for administrative expenditure is 0.5 % (2013: 1.0 % (22). 
(22) This comparative figure takes into account the new approach to non-compliance with public procurement rules. 
See also paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14. 
(23) This expenditure is mainly covered by Chapters 7 and 8, but partly also the expenditure covered by Chapters 5 and 6. 
The extrapolated error rate for shared management expenditure is based on an analysis of 687 transactions (from a population of 113 billion euro). 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/29 RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE HOF There are many forms of corrective measures with different impacts 1.30. 
Our analysis of "errors and corrections" is intended to shed light on the complex mechanisms of the implementation and recording of corrective actions and explain the many ways these mechanisms can influence our audit work. 
In some areas of expenditure, new instruments will be available to the Commission when expenditure for the new programming period is incurred. 
Corrective measures 1.31. 
We strive to take into account corrective measures taken by the Member States and the Commission in advance of the payment or our investigation. 
We also take note of corrections made after our audit announcement. However, we cannot reduce the estimated error rate whenever the audit itself triggers the corrective action (24). 
We review the application of these corrections (which include recoveries from beneficiaries and corrections at project level) and, if necessary, adjust the calculation of the error rate. 
However, the impact of corrective measures varies significantly depending on the expenditure area and the corrective action. 
1.32. 
The Commission and the Member States' authorities had applied corrective measures for 24 of the transactions audited in 2014 as part of a sample, which directly impacted the transaction concerned and were relevant to our calculations. 
These corrective measures led to a reduction in our estimated error rate by 1.1 percentage points (2013: 1.6 percentage points); this corresponds to around 1.6 billion euros. 
Changes in the number of transactions concerned and the impact on our estimated error rate do not indicate that the corrective actions are more or less effective: As these measures apply to a relatively small proportion of our sample, fluctuations are expected from year to year. 
1.30. 
The Commission considers that the Court's annual representative error rate should be considered in relation to the Commission's corrective capacity as reported in the various annual activity reports and in the synthesis report. 
The Financial Regulation requires appropriate consideration of the risks related to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multi-annual nature of the control systems and the nature of payments. 
1.31. 
Common reply to points 1.31 and 1.32: In the 2014 Synthesis Report (COM(2015) 279 final), the Commission estimated the future impact of correction mechanisms at EUR 2.7 billion, representing 1.9 % of payments from the EU budget. 
For a breakdown of figures by policy area, see Table 1 in the Synthesis Report. 
The Commission underlines that all types of financial corrections and recoveries exclude unlawful expenditure from reimbursement from the EU budget (see note 6 to the annual accounts). 
(24) See paragraphs 1.19-1.37 of the 2012 annual report. 
The Commission uses the terms "financial corrections" and "recoveries" to cover a wide range of corrective measures applied both before and after the Commission's execution (or reimbursement) of expenditure. 
1.34. 
Note 6.2.2 of the financial statements sets out a total amount of EUR 3285 million for corrective actions in 2014. 
Figure 1.7 shows how we classify the corrections made at the different stages of the spending cycle. 
One quarter of all corrective actions in 2014 consist of corrections and recoveries that took place at the source, i.e. before the Commission made the related payment (25). 
A further quarter will take the form of withdrawals and the replacement of expenditure on cohesion projects (either during the implementation or completion of the operational programmes). 1.33. 
The Commission considers that the terms "financial corrections" and "recoveries" are used in accordance with the legal framework laid down in the Financial Regulation and the relevant sectoral legislation. 
For more detailed information on the different preventive and corrective mechanisms provided for in the applicable legislation, see note 6 on the EU financial statements and the Communication on the protection of the EU budget. 
(25) For the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, the corrections reported as "at source" in 2014 amount to EUR 430 million; of this, 75 % had already taken place in previous years. 
De 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/31 Figure 1.7 - Classification of corrective measures taken in 2014 (*) Commission Decisions (mostly agricultural conformity decisions), corrections leading to decommitments on closure and recovery of beneficiaries. (**) Reduction of reimbursements and inclusion of new projects/costs during the implementation of the programmes and on completion. (***) Corrections before payment under shared management, ineligible amounts and credits under direct and indirect management (recorded as "recoveries" in note 6). 
Source: Note 6 on the EU 2014 consolidated financial statements and underlying data. 
For the cohesion area, the classification of the amounts under "exclusion before payment" and "withdrawals" is based on an analysis of the corrections made during the period. 
COURT'S COMMENTS 1.35. 
The corrective measures discussed in this section of the annual report also include the work of the Member State authorities, as well as the recoveries carried out by the national authorities and the Commission. 
C 373/32 Official Journal of the European Union RECOMMENDATIONS 10.11.2015 DE NOTE OF THE HOF The impact of corrective measures is largely tangible at the time when the Commission accepts expenditure 1.36. 
All relevant sectoral regulations in the area of shared management contain rules on primary controls to be carried out by national authorities or reductions in amounts declared by final beneficiaries before the expenditure is certified. 
In some cases, the national authorities also agree to reduce or cancel certain costs which, due to errors with long-term effects, appear on a permanent basis in the declarations (such as ongoing payments under a contract where there is an error with regard to procurement rules). 
Such adjustments may have a measurable impact on the amount of reimbursement requested for individual projects or the aid paid to individual farmers. The correction then helps to reduce our estimated error rate. 
1.37. 
In the area of direct and indirect management, the 'recoveries' registered by the Commission consist, inter alia, of deducting ineligible amounts in respect of cost claims before the payment is approved. 
The eligibility of the amounts is determined on the basis of desk checks of the available documents or on the basis of the results of checks carried out (see also Figure 1.7). 
This also allows us to reduce our estimated error rate. 
Conformity decisions ("financial corrections" in the agricultural sector) are often made on a flat-rate basis. 
In general, they refer to system deficiencies rather than errors at the level of the final beneficiaries. 
In the rarest cases, they result in recoveries from the farmers concerned. 
This type of corrective action is an incentive for Member States to improve their management and control systems. 
They contribute to the legality and regularity of transactions at the level of final beneficiaries if they lead to continuous improvements in the cost statements accepted by the paying agencies (see boxes 1.2 and 1.3). 
The Commission services also carry out recoveries "at source" by deducting non-eligible expenditure (determined in previous or current cost statements) from payments made. 
1.38. 
Financial corrections made by the Commission for agricultural expenditure are intended to protect the EU budget and will be imposed on Member States. 
They do not directly lead to recoveries of farmers, as the Commission does not pay the final beneficiaries directly but reimburses payments made by Member States to farmers. 
However, if these incorrect payments are identifiable as a result of the conformity clearance procedure, the Commission would expect Member States to pursue them through recovery measures against the beneficiaries. 
See reply to Box 1.3. 
Paying agencies implement conformity decisions by reducing future requests for reimbursement by the Commission for payments to farmers. 
The Commission accounts the full amount paid out to farmers as expenditure, i.e. the correction does not entail a reduction in the amount of the payments registered. 
Instead, the difference between payments to farmers and reimbursements to paying agencies is recorded as assigned revenue available to finance agricultural expenditure (26). 
More than two thirds of the "financial corrections" recorded in 2014 in the area of cohesion are replaced by new expenditure,... 
1.40. 
In the area of cohesion, "financial corrections" for more than two thirds of the total amount recorded are cases where the authorities in the Member States withdraw expenditure declared and replace them with new expenditure. 
For some "withdrawals" no concrete projects can be recognised as withdrawn. 
Instead, Member States report additional projects and thus receive a de facto lower co-financing rate. 
1.40. The Commission considers that all financial corrections, including those allowing Member States to contribute new projects and new expenditure to re-use the corrected amounts, protect the EU budget from unlawful expenditure and act as an incentive for Member States to recover from beneficiaries (and thus contribute to improving management and control systems). 
Nevertheless, the deterrent effect of net financial corrections, where Member States are unable to reuse the corrected and recovered amounts and thus lose the funds, is certainly higher. 
(26) If, for example, an agricultural paying agency is subject to a financial correction of 5 % and makes payments of EUR 100 million to farmers, the Commission will reimburse it 95 million euro. However, the Commission will, for its part, account for EUR 100 million of expenditure, which will be offset by assigned revenue of EUR 5 million. 
C 373/34 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMMISSION OF THE HOF... whereas net corrections are made less frequently 1.41. 
If a replacement is not possible, the corrections for the Member State concerned will result in a loss of EU funds(27). This, albeit relatively rare, can occur when Member States are unable to provide sufficient eligible expenditure and where replacement is no longer possible (28) or allowed (29). 
The Commission expects that, as a result of amendments to the legislation, net corrections will be more widely applied in the future. 1.41. 
Following the example of the agricultural sector, the legislator has decided to apply a similar mechanism of net financial corrections for the 2014-2020 programming period to cohesion policy. 
This will give Member States an additional incentive to prevent or detect or eliminate serious deficiencies in the management and control systems before submitting the annual accounts to the Commission. 
Otherwise, and if serious deficiencies continue to be identified by the Commission or the Court following the submission of the annual accounts, the Commission must make net financial corrections under the conditions laid down in the relevant regulations, which means that the resources for the Member State are lost. 
Furthermore, the Commission considers that, under shared management, all financial corrections and recoveries, regardless of the method of their implementation, have a negative impact on national budgets. 
In order to avoid a loss of EU funding, the Member State must replace ineligible expenditure with additional eligible transactions. 
This means that the Member State, with its national budget, must bear the financial consequences of losing EU co-financing of expenditure considered ineligible unless it recovers the amounts from each beneficiary. 
(27) Either as a reduction in payments or in the form of a return to the EU budget leading to assigned revenue (see Chart 2.2). 
(28) After completion of the programmes. 
(29) In the event of a disagreement between Member States and the Commission (see point 1.25(b) of the 2012 Annual Report). 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union COMMISSION C 373/35 EN NOTICES OF THE HOF In 2014, Commission and Member States applied all these forms of corrective measures 1.42. 
Boxes 1.2-1.4 illustrate different types and effects of corrective actions. Box 1.2 - Example of improving management and control systems - Greece: The Commission has taken measures to enforce the improvement of the Agricultural Parcel Identification System (LPIS), which serves as a basis for payments to farms, such as the single payment scheme (the largest single EU spending scheme). 
This process took place at various stages and led to a decrease in the 'eligible' permanent grassland covered by the Greek LPIS from 3.6 million hectares in 2012 to 1.5 million hectares in October 2014. 
Non-compliant applications for 'permanent grassland', which is not eligible for EU aid, has been a key factor in our estimated "natural resources" error rate for several years. 
We took into account the impact of corrections on individual payments made to final beneficiaries, which were the subject of our sample of EAGF and European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) transactions. 
A further impact is that the Paying Agency rejected a large number of ineligible applications, which resulted in the corresponding expenditure falling out of our sample. 
Box 1.2 - Example of improving management and control systems - Greece: Further examples of the positive impact of action plans are given by the Court in Chapter 7. 
Action plans are implemented whenever deemed necessary and the Commission monitors their implementation with great care and reports on the corrective measures taken in the annual activity report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development. 
The area identification system prevents beneficiaries from claiming claims for areas which do not exist or which do not meet the eligibility conditions or for areas for which claims have already been claimed by another beneficiary. 
When properly implemented, it is a very effective tool to reduce the error rate. 
It covers 75 % of CAP expenditure. 
As shown in the 2014 Annual Activity Report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, the error rates for area-related payments are lower than for other measures. 
C 373/36 Official Journal of the European Union REQUIREMENTS OF COMMISSION 10.11.2015 DE NOTE OF HOFES Box 1.3 - Example of corrections resulting from conformity clearance procedures (30) - Conformity decision 47 and its consequences for French farmers In 2014, France accepted a correction of 1.1 billion euro (984 million euro for EAGF and 94 million euro for the EAFRD)(31). 
The national authorities stated that this would have no impact on farmers and the amount would be denied from the national budget. 
In previous annual reports, we pointed out that such an approach would not give beneficiaries an incentive to eliminate errors (32). 
The main reasons for the correction were shortcomings in the LPIS/GIS (695 million euro) and the exceeding of the ceiling for payment entitlements, resulting in excessive payments to farmers (141 million euro). 
Another reason, albeit to a lesser extent, was breaches of the cross-compliance obligation of timely notification of animal movements (123 million euros). 
All of these reasons are related to payments made between 2009 and 2013. 
No correction was made for 2014 and the breaches of the ceiling for payment entitlements and the ineligible areas covered by the LPIS of France contributed 0.3 percentage points to our estimated "Natural Resources" error rate this year. 
Box 1.3 - Example of corrections resulting from conformity clearance procedures - Conformity Decision 47 and its consequences for French farmers Under shared management, Member States are responsible for ensuring that control systems function properly. 
The financial correction of EUR 1.1 billion will be repaid to the EU budget in three annual instalments (2015, 2016 and 2017). 
The Commission points out that, due to the nature of the conformity clearance procedure applicable ex-post, it is very rare, after the accounts of the year and after an adversarial phase in which the Member State concerned can submit its own reasoning and calculation, that a financial correction is already decided in the following year of the expenditure concerned. 
An ongoing conformity clearance procedure will protect the EU budget for 2014. 
Box 1.4 - Example of corrections resulting in additional expenditure: ESF - Romania We pointed out corrective measures in Romania in our annual reports on the financial years 2012 and 2013. 
In 2013, we were able to reduce our estimated level of error in relation to a number of Romanian projects under the European Social Fund (ESF), as the national authorities had identified the impact of the corrections at project level. 
This was also the case in 2014. 
Some projects we are investigating still have errors due to problems that are not covered by the corrections. 
In its 2014 Annual Activity Report, the Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion (DG EMPL) notes that it continues to follow the implementation of the agreed action plan. 
The financial corrections made do not necessarily mean that Romania will receive less EU funding, as Member States can make use of the possibility of claiming a larger amount of expenditure (33). 
(30) A multi-year procedure allowing recovery of sums paid to Member States where such payments have breached EU rules or where there are deficiencies in the Member State's management and control systems. 
See also paragraph 7.59. 
(31) France subsequently appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union against the decision imposing the financial correction. 
(32) See paragraphs 1.26 and 1.32 of the 2012 annual report. 
(33) In practice, this would amount to a reduction in the EU co-financing rate. 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/37 REPORTS OF THE COMMISSION OF THE HOFES In its reporting on corrective measures, the Commission does not always quantify their different effects,... 
1.43. 
Note 6 to the annual accounts is to a large extent a voluntary disclosure of information that is not required under accounting rules. 
A significant part of this information does not come from accounting systems. 
The explanatory note provides a description of the different effects of the different corrective adjustments to the EU budget, but not always in quantified form. ... and further improvements would allow for a better analysis 1.44. 
The Commission's capacity to improve the quality of expenditure is linked not only to the amounts concerned, but also to their impact. 
A rigorous assessment of the impact of corrective measures requires better information on the nature of the corrected error and the way corrections are made (34). 
When the relevant Commission DGs assess the impact of their corrective actions, they shall make the necessary adjustments to the figures in Explanatory Note 6 (see paragraph 1.55). 
The Commission's Synthesis Report confirms material errors in transactions 1.45. 
Each Directorate-General of the Commission shall draw up an annual activity report. 
This report includes - a report on the achievement of the main policy objectives (explained in Chapter 3) - a management report from the Director-General to the College of Commissioners and - a statement by the Director-General ensuring that the financial information contained in the report is properly presented and that the operations covered by his/her responsibilities are legal and regular. 
1.43. 
The legislator has provided the Commission with the instrument of financial corrections to ensure that unlawful expenditure is not financed from the EU budget. 
These financial corrections relate mainly to systemic deficiencies that lead to a risk of error. 
It is the responsibility of the Member States and not the Commission to identify incorrect amounts and recover them from the beneficiaries. 
If this is not done, the EU funds will be replaced by national funds, as national budgets will have to bear the burden of financial corrections. 
1.44. 
Several services have duly adjusted their figures in note 6 regarding the protection of the EU budget in order to provide an estimate of future corrections in view of their specific circumstances. 
(34) See paragraphs 1.13-1.15 of the 2013 annual report. 
C 373/38 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 DE NOTES OF HOFES 1.46. The Synthesis Report contains a summary of this information and a statement that the Commission assumes overall political responsibility for the management of the EU budget with the adoption of the Synthesis Report. 
1.47. 
This section of the chapter describes the results of our analysis of the Annual Activity Reports of the Directorates-General and the Commission's Synthesis Report(35). 
The focus is on the consistency and adequacy of the Commission's estimates with regard to - the error rate at the time of reimbursement by the Commission or the payment of its own expenditure by the Commission (the Commission refers to "risk amount"), - the extent to which errors are corrected by subsequent corrections (the Commission refers to its 'corrective capacity' or 'estimated future corrections' (36)). 
The Directors-General report annually on regularity 1.48. 
If the Directors-General are unable to provide assurance on a significant part of the expenditure, they shall make a reservation (see Box 1.5). 
Directors-general should proceed in this way when - an event having a serious impact on the reputation of the Commission or - the impact of the estimated error rates minus already made financial corrections and recoveries are still material. 
(35) The Commission's Synthesis Report and Annual Activity Reports can be found on the Commission's website: Synthesis report: http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/planning-and-preparing/synthesis-report/index_de.htm, Annual Activity Reports: http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/synthesis/aar/index_de htm. 
(36) See Synthesis Report, footnotes 10 and 13, pp. 14 and 15. 
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/39 DE NOTICES OF HOFES Box 1.5 - Reservations in the 2014 Annual Activity Reports The Directors-General made a total of 20 quantified reservations in 2014 compared to 17 in 2013. 
The increase in the total number of reservations is due to three new reservations made by the Directors-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (DG CONNECT) (37) and Neighbourhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations (DG NEAR)(38)(39) and the Service for Foreign Policy Instruments (FPI) (40); - the division of a recurring reservation into two reservations (41), - the lifting of a reservation (42). 
In 2014, the amount of expenditure subject to a reservation decreased from EUR 2.4 billion in 2013 to EUR 2.3 billion in 2014 (43). 
1.49. 
The European Parliament resolution on discharge 2013(44) calls on the Commission to "further clarify the calculation of the risk amount by explaining the estimated impact of correction mechanisms on this figure". 
(37) Reservation concerning the Information and Communication Technologies Policy Support Programme (ICT Support Programme) of the countries participating in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), as the residual error rate is above 2 % (2.94 %). 
(38) Reservation on indirect management by beneficiary countries, as the residual error rate is above 2 % (2.67 %). 
(39) The problems identified in the 2013 annual report gave rise to a new reservation from DG NEAR (former Directorate-General for Enlargement (DG ELARG), see paragraph 7.16 of the 2013 Annual Report). 
(40) Reservation on Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) expenditure, as the residual error rate is above 2 % (2.13 %). 
(41) The Directorate-General for Regional Policy and Urban Development (DG REGIO) divided its recurrent reservation on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)/Cohesion Fund (CF)/Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) into two reservations, one on the ERDF/CF and another on the IPA. 
(42) The Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE) has lifted its reservation on the programmes for the eradication and monitoring of animal diseases in the food and feed policy area. 
(43) See Synthesis Report, Annex 2. 
(44) Report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2013, Section III - Commission and Executive Agencies 2014/2075 (DEC) (A8-0101/2015). 
THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.50. 
In line with the request of the discharge authority, in 2014 the Commission further developed its internal guidance (45) on presenting information in Annual Activity Reports. 
The Directors-General will now present an "average detected error rate" (46). 
The application of this error rate to the total payments of the year leads to the calculation of the amount of risk(47). 
This amount is reported in the synthesis report together with the estimation of the future corrective capacity of the ex-post controls carried out by the Commission. The Commission acknowledges that expenditure is materially affected by errors... 
1.51. 
In the 2014 Synthesis Report, the Commission identifies the amount of risk as a range of 3.7 to EUR 5 billion. 
This corresponds to between 2.6 % and 3.5 % of the payments covered by the Synthesis Report for 2014(48). 
These figures show that the overall expenditure is materially affected by errors. ..., however, points to the estimated impact of future corrections 1.52. 
The 2014 Synthesis Report provides an estimated total amount of estimated future corrections (correction capacity). 
Based on the corrections recorded over the past six years(49), the Commission estimates that in the coming years it will be able to identify and correct errors in the total amount of around EUR 2700 million (50). 
(45) Standing Instructions for the 2014 Annual Activity Reports (SEC(2014) 553). 
(46) This is the detected or estimated error rate at the time of payment (not the residual error rate), i.e. without adjustment due to errors corrected retrospectively. 
