ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2007 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2008 ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 © European Communities, 2008 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
3 4-5 6-7 8-13 14-17 18-25 26-27 28-29 30-35 36-37 38-43 44-45 FOREWORD FROM THE PRESIDENT MISSION, MISSION, VALUES AND STRATEGIC GOALS ROLE AND WORK OF THE COURT GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION OVERVIEW OF THE COURT'S AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS FOLLOW-UP AND IMPACT THE COURT'S POSITION THE COURT'S WORK IN 2007 AND BEYOND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION STAFF FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONTENTS
FOREWORD BY THE PRESIDENT 4 One of the Court's main objectives and part of its mandate in promoting transparency and accountability is to bring the European Court of Auditors closer to EU citizens.
It is therefore a great pleasure for me to welcome you as a reader of the European Court of Auditors' first annual activity report.
The report aims to provide an overall picture of the Court and to give an account of its activities in 2007, the year in which it celebrates its 30th anniversary as the European Union's external auditor, which according to its mission is to improve EU financial management contributes and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the Union.
The Court's main contribution is through its audits and reports, which enable the auditee to improve its financial management and support the discharge authority (European Parliament and Council) in their scrutiny of the implementation of the EU budget.
This report provides an overview of the audit reports published in 2007 and highlights the main conclusions regarding the implementation of the 2006 EU budget and the sound financial management of EU funds.
The Court not only reports on the financial management of previous years, but is also actively involved in building an EU financial control framework.
The year 2007 was an important one for EU financial management.
The section “The Court's view” outlines the Court's views on significant developments related to Member State accountability and the Court's contribution to the public consultation on budgetary reform launched by the European Commission.
None of the Court's achievements in 2007 would be possible without the commitment, know-how and competence of its 850 staff.
Human resources are the most important asset of a future-oriented agency that strives for constant improvement.
This first annual activity report details the Court's reform process, which started in 2006 with a self-assessment.
2007 saw progress in implementing the resulting action plan and by the end of the year a peer review process was launched, led by a group of auditors drawn from the national audit offices of Canada, Austria, Norway and Portugal.
A first result of this reform process was the following statement of the Court's mission, mission, values and strategic objectives, which will guide future activities and on which the Court will report in due course.
I hope you enjoy reading the first annual activity report and that you find it useful.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
6 MISSION, MISSION, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES MISSION MISSION The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing the EU finances under the Treaty.
As the EU's external auditor, it helps improve EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
7 VALUES Independence, integrity & impartiality Professionalism Added value Excellence & efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality for the body, its members and staff.
Supplying its target group with appropriate examination results, whereby any form of influence through external instructions or pressure is rejected.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Produce relevant, timely, high-quality reports that are based on sound evidence and evidence, address the needs of its audience, and contain important and meaningful statements.
Contribute to effectively improving the management of the EU budget and contribute to increasing accountability for the management of EU funds.
Promoting team spirit through effective communication.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES In order to fulfill its mandate, the European Court of Auditors has committed itself to the following strategic objectives: Professionalism Output Target group Development & growth Established audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit benchmarks for EU funds, cooperation with EU SAIs, effective “community control framework” selection of relevant audit topics, timeliness, clarity and readability of reports, quality of performance audits, increasing the impact of reports deepening relationships with audited entities to bring about a better understanding of the audit process and a achieve broader acceptance of exam results; Developing contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as budgetary and discharge authorities; communicating effectively with EU citizens using the experience of the peer review process to strengthen and develop the organisation, methods, processes and results in order to achieve maximum efficiency; pursuing an effective and dynamic human resources policy; quality professional training; modernization of infrastructure; Implementation of IT strategies
8 ROLE AND WORK OF THE COURT WHAT ROLE DOES THE COURT HAVE?
The budget of the European Union is around EUR 120 billion, which is around 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 member states.
Compared to the national budgets, this represents a minor proportion.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in financing public activities. The total budget volume roughly corresponds to the GNI of some countries, such as Romania.
The composition of the budget has changed over time, with agriculture and cohesion policies being the main spending areas (see Box 1).
The budget is determined annually - on the basis of a seven-year financial framework - by the Council, ie representatives of the Member States, and the directly elected European Parliament on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission.
The Commission is responsible for implementing the budget, but shares a significant proportion of the administrative tasks with the Member States, particularly when it comes to spending on agriculture and cohesion policy.
Depending on the spending regime, national authorities may be responsible for setting spending strategies, selecting beneficiaries and projects, and making payments.
A particular feature of Community spending is the high percentage of payments that are based on corresponding claims from the beneficiaries themselves, be they farmers or project managers anywhere in the Union.
9 BOX 1 - HOW DOES THE EU SPEND ITS MONEY?
Much of the EU budget goes to different purposes than national budgets, partly due to differences in areas of responsibility.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually account for a large part of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which usually takes the form of payments to farmers throughout the Union, has represented the bulk of budgetary expenditure, although the trend is currently decreasing.
In 2008, slightly less than half of the budget is earmarked for conservation and management of natural resources, mainly agriculture and rural development.
Since the 1980s, a significant part of the expenditure has gone to the area of cohesion - ie regional and social development - to co-finance a wide range of projects from road construction in Slovakia to training courses for the unemployed in Denmark.
For 2008, spending on sustainable growth, the lion's share of which goes to cohesion, has been estimated at 38% of the budget.
This heading also includes a large part of the EU funds earmarked for research.
Around 6% of the budget is spent on the administration of the Community institutions.
EU spending Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1% The European Union as a global actor 6% Administration 6% Cohesion - Sustainable growth 38% Agriculture - Conservation and management of natural resources 49%
Democratic societies require complete and accurate publicly available information to inform discussion and decision-making, both to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
In its capacity as the EU's external auditor, the European Court of Auditors ensures that EU funds, wherever they are used, are correctly accounted for and spent in accordance with the law, with due regard to the best use of funds.
The results of the Court's audit work are used by the Commission, Parliament and Council, as well as by Member States to improve EU financial management.
In addition to the Court's work, numerous national control authorities audit EU funds where they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
Overview of internal and external control of the EU budget EU level 10 Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing bodies European Court of Auditors National control authorities National level External control Internal control
WHAT TEST RESULTS DOES THE COURT DELIVER? The Court applies three different types of audits 1: financial, compliance (checking compliance with legal requirements) and performance audit, depending on which of the following three questions the starting point of the audit is: 11 • • • Conveys the financial statements in all material Do a true and fair view of the financial position, results and cash flows for the year comply with the applicable accounting framework?
The Court is required under the EC Treaty to issue such a statement - or opinion - on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual declaration of assurance is commonly known by the French acronym DAS (“Déclaration d'Assurance”).
1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
The Court conducts its audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), which apply to both the public and private sectors.
Together with the national control authorities, the Court actively participates in the further development of international auditing standards promoted by the standardization bodies (Intosai, IFAC) 2 .
In order to provide assurance that payments comply with the legal and regulatory framework, the Court relies on the results of both its examination of the supervisory and control systems designed to prevent or detect and correct errors in legality and regularity and one Sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
When systems are checked and found to be reliable, the number of transactions that the Court has to examine in order to reach a valid conclusion as to their legality and regularity is correspondingly reduced.
In selecting the topics for our performance audits, the Court endeavors to identify audit areas where the greatest impact is expected in terms of demonstrated potential for improvement in terms of economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending.
12 2 Intosai (International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions – IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) International Federation of Accountants.
13 BOX 2 - THE COURT'S ON-THE-SPOT AUDITS OF PAYMENTS FROM THE EU BUDGET The Court does not have the resources to audit all EU budget transactions in detail.
The Court traces these transactions down to the final recipient of the aid, such as a farmer in southern Germany.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks - such as measuring the size of the agricultural area - to determine whether the relevant information in the support application corresponds to the actual situation.
Population from all agricultural payments Due to the fact that it is a statistical sample, the results can be extrapolated to the relevant population, ie a specific revenue or expenditure area, and together with information resulting from the system evaluation, as a basis for an audit overall judgement.
This chart shows how the Court works to identify transactions for in-depth verification purposes.
In practice, the Court's sampling procedures are more complex, for example a two-stage sampling procedure is used to improve the efficiency of the audit work.
Random sample of a representative sample Payment to a farm in Germany €€ €€€ €€€ €€€ €€€€€ €€€€€€ €€€
14 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS The Court of Auditors acts as a collegiate body of 27 members, with one member from each Member State.
As shown in the organizational chart (see page 17), there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas (conservation and management of natural resources - structural policies, transport, research and energy - external policies - own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, institutions and bodies of the Community and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or Coordination, Communication, Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development) is responsible for 'horizontal' issues such as coordination on the Statement of Assurance, quality assurance, the development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports.
In addition, an Administrative Committee, composed of members from all audit groups, is responsible for the preparatory handling of all administrative matters requiring a formal court decision.
THE MEMBERS The members of the Court are appointed by the Council, after consultation of the European Parliament, according to the proposals of each Member State, for a six-year term, renewable.
In addition to their function within the college, which is responsible for the final decision-making on audits and opinions as well as on broader strategic and administrative issues, each member is responsible for their specific tasks, primarily in the audit area.
The member then takes on the task of presenting the report to the audit group or the Court and, after its adoption, to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested third parties.
With the accession of Bulgaria and Romania on 1 January 2007, the Court welcomed two new members, Ms Nadezhda Sandolova and Mr Ovidiu Ispir.
A year later, on 1 January 2008, the Court admitted three more new members, Mr Michel Cretin (France), Mr Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) and Mr Harald Noack (Germany), as their predecessors' terms of office had expired.
In addition, the Council extended the terms of office of four members (Greece, the Netherlands, Austria and the United Kingdom) for a further six years.
PRESIDENT Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (EE) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIENĖ (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČ (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSANET (ES) Nadejda SANDOLOVA (BG) David BOSTOCK (UK) Gejza Zsolt HALÁSZ (HU) Jan KINŠT (CZ) Olavi ALA-NISSILÄ (FI) Michel CRETIN (FR) EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2008 15
16 THE PRESIDENT The European Court of Auditors is headed by the President, who is elected by the members from among their number for a term of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
The President's role is that of primus inter pares.
The President represents the Court in all its external relations, in particular in its relations with the discharge authority, the other institutions of the European Union and the supreme audit institutions of the Member States and beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, the Portuguese Member, was elected the Court's 11th President.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL The Secretary-General is the most senior official of the institution and is appointed by the Court for a six-year term, renewable.
The Secretary-General is responsible for the human and administrative management of the Court, including professional development and the Directorate for Translation, with one unit for each official language (22), excluding Gaelic.
The Secretary General is also responsible for the General Secretariat.
The term of office of the Court's current Secretary-General, Mr Michel Hervé, was renewed on 1 July 2007.
THE COURT'S STAFF The European Court of Auditors has a staff of around 850 (836 on 31 December 2007) and includes auditors (484), translators (162) and administrative staff.
The Court's auditors have a wide range of educational backgrounds and relevant professional experience in both the public and private sectors, particularly in the fields of accounting, financial management, internal and external audit, law and economics.
Like the other EU institutions, the Court employs nationals from all Member States.
18 OVERVIEW OF THE COURT'S AUDIT REPORTS AND 3 OPINIONS The results of the Court's financial and compliance audits mostly feed into the annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds (EDFs), as well as the specific annual reports on the agencies and bodies the Union.
The results of the performance audits are published in special reports throughout the year.
The Court also publishes opinions on draft legislation affecting financial management.
ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2006 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET As the Court has repeatedly stated in its annual reports on the implementation of the general budget of the EU, adequate and appropriate internal control systems put in place by the Commission and the Member States are essential to ensure the proper management of the EU budget of central importance.
In recent years, the Court has recognized the Commission's efforts to promote and apply improved internal control and management procedures, both in terms of the reliability of the EU's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions reported therein.
The 2006 Annual Report continued this tradition by identifying areas for improvement, sometimes significant, as well as identifying major areas of spending where the situation remains unsatisfactory.
The Court concluded that the 'Final annual accounts of the European Communities', which show the implementation of the EU budget for 2006, give a true and fair view of the Communities' financial position and results in all material respects, except for the Disclosure of excessive amounts in the accounts payable and pre-financing in the asset overview.
Further improvements are therefore deemed necessary in order for the newly introduced accruals based accounting system to function fully satisfactorily and to realize its full potential as a reliable management and control tool.
3 This section introduces the Court's reports and opinions rather than summarizing them.
More detailed information can be found in the full text of the Court documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
Among the areas of expenditure reported in the "Final Annual Accounts of the European Communities" where most of the payments are made - agriculture [mainly agricultural expenditure not subject to the Integrated Administration and Control System (IACS)], structural measures, internal policies and large parts of external policies – the Court gives a negative opinion on legality and regularity and concludes that these areas of spending remain affected by material error.
For payments in these areas, the supervisory and control systems have only partially limited the risk of irregularities in legality and regularity in transactions.
The Court stresses that complicated or unclear eligibility criteria or complex legislation had a significant impact on the legality and regularity of transactions.
However, the Court found a significant reduction in the estimated total error rate in agricultural transactions and concluded that IACS, when properly applied, is an effective system to mitigate the risk of irregular expenditure.
In addition, the Court found that the transactions underlying the commitments and revenue were free from material error; this also applies to payments related to administrative expenditure, most of the pre-accession strategy and parts of external actions (see Box 3). 19
18 BOX 3 - SUMMARY OF THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF THE UNDERLYING TRANSACTIONS BY AREA OF EXPENDITURE The table summarizes the overall assessment of the supervisory and control systems as set out in the relevant chapters of the Annual Report 2006 and provides a high level summary of the results of the audits of the Court in relation to representative samples of transactions.
Systems are classified as "partially satisfactory" when some controls are found to be functioning adequately while others are not.
As a result, overall, they may not be able to contain the errors in the underlying operations to a tolerable level.
The report draws attention to some shortcomings regarding the "operation of the supervisory and control systems".
Only the core statements are highlighted in the table. However, the respective details cannot be shown in full.
Readers are encouraged to refer to the main body of the 2006 Annual Report for the full analysis.
Specific assessments in the 2006 Annual Report Common Agricultural Policy Functioning of supervisory and control systems Margin of error Own resources IACS CAP total IACS non-IACS non-IACS Structural policies Internal policies Central services and delegations External policies Pre-accession strategy Phare/ISPA Implementing bodies Sapard Administrative expenditure Functioning of supervisory and control systems satisfactory partially satisfactory unsatisfactory margin of error below 2% (below the materiality threshold) between 2% and 5% more than 5%
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUNDS (EDFs) In 2007 the Court also published an annual report on the European Development Funds (EDFs).
Whilst the Court was able to give an unqualified opinion on the reliability of the accounts of the EDFs, the opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the payments authorized under the responsibility of the delegations in the recipient countries was qualified given the material level of error in these transactions.
OTHER ANNUAL REPORTS A further 28 specific annual reports on the European Agencies and other decentralized bodies and an annual report on the audit of the administrative efficiency of the European Central Bank were also published in 2007. 21
SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 2007 In 2007 the Court published a total of nine special reports.
The reports related to investigations into financial management issues in many different areas, ranging from cooperation in the field of VAT (No. 8/2007) to capacity building in countries as far away as Angola and Vietnam (No. 6/2007 ).
The Court's audits revealed problems of all kinds, with all kinds of consequences.
The weaknesses identified by the Court in relation to the EU institutions' expenditure on buildings (2/2007) show that not all EU funds in this area have been well spent.
The shortcomings identified in the report on the systems for monitoring, inspection and sanctions relating to the rules governing the conservation of Community fisheries resources (7/2007) could have serious consequences not only for aquatic resources but also for the future of the fisheries industry.
Notwithstanding the different ways in which funds are spent in different areas of the EU budget, several common themes emerge in the Court's reports, which can be outlined as follows: 22 • • • While spending funds should be both timely and efficient, it can When trying to achieve these two goals at the same time, a tension arises.
This subject is the subject of the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No. 1/2007) as well as the report on the management of the CARDS program by the Commission in the Western Balkans (No. 5/2007).
While planning is no guarantee of effectiveness, it is of significant importance.
Questions related to strategic and long-term planning appeared in the reports on the EU institutions' expenditure on buildings (No. 2/2007) and on the evaluation of the EU framework programs in the field of research and technological development (RTD) (No. 9/2007). ) as well as in two reports related to external assistance, one on the CARDS program (5/2007) and the other on the effectiveness of technical assistance in capacity building (6/2007). .
The Commission's evaluations are a key element of its performance management system, assessing performance and identifying areas for improvement where necessary.
If evaluations take place too early in the programming cycle, this means that the state of progress is insufficient and there is not enough relevant data for evaluation purposes.
On the other hand, evaluating at a later stage may reduce the opportunities to make timely changes during the current period and improvements before the next begins.
The issue of the correct timing of evaluations has been addressed in both the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No. 1/2007) and the report on RTD evaluation (No. 9/2007).
23 • • Evaluations, like audits, are more difficult to carry out when the objectives of the spending programs are unclear. This was another issue raised in the latter two reports.
The management and controls of EU spending are subject to complex regulations that need to be clear and unambiguous to ensure that funds are used for the intended purposes.
Having clear definitions and rules in place is essential if funds are to be collected or used as planned.
This was the subject of the reports on the European Refugee Fund (No. 3/2007) and on Member States' goods and substitution controls on the export of agricultural products (No. 4/2007).
The lack of common definitions is one of the factors that can affect the completeness, comparability and reliability of the data coming from different Member States.
This can have consequences when the data become the basis for decisions such as resource allocation.
24 Special Reports published in 2007 Special Report No. 1/2007 Special Report No. 2/2007 Special Report No. 3/2007 Special Report No. 4/2007 Special Report No. 5/2007 Special Report No. 6/2007 Special Report No. 7/2007 Special Report No 8/2007 Special Report No 9/2007 Implementation of the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds 2000-2006 Building expenditure of the institutions Management of the European Refugee Fund (2000-2004) Physical and substitution controls on exports of products for which a refund is granted Management of the CARDS programme by the Commission Effectiveness of technical assistance in the context of capacity building Monitoring, inspection and sanction systems concerning the rules for the conservation of Community fisheries resources Administrative cooperation in the field of VAT Evaluation of the EU framework programs in the field of research and technological development - Could the Commission its improve approach?
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2007 The Court also helps to improve EU financial management by providing opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the process of adopting financial regulations 4 or may be issued at the request of one of the other institutions of the Community 5 . The Court may also issue opinions on its own initiative.
The Court's opinions can address issues relating to specific areas of expenditure, such as the two opinions of 2007 on new regulations for the European Development Funds (2/2007 and 9/2007).
But they can also cover broader issues of EU financial management, such as the Court's Opinion on the annual summaries, the national declarations and the audit work of national audit bodies (6/2007).
Opinions draw on the Court's expertise in EU financial management issues, acquired over the years through its audits, and in some cases reference is made to specific audits.
For example, in the Opinion on Ensuring the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation (3/2007), the Court refers to a recommendation in a previous special report that the Commission should take action to improve the reliability of sources of information on fraud.
The need for simplification is a recurring theme in the Court's opinions (see, for example, Opinion No. 7/2007 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities).
In a 2007 opinion (6/2007) the Court explains its position on the annual summaries as well as on the so-called national declarations submitted voluntarily by some Member States on their own initiative.
This opinion is discussed in more detail in the section entitled 'The Court's position'.
4 5 Article 279 of the Treaty.
Article 248 paragraph 4.
Most of the Court's opinions have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union and are available on the Court's website.
26 FOLLOW-UP AND IMPACT Public financial control plays a key role in modern democratic societies from the point of view of efficient financial management.
Audit activities account for those at the end of the information chain, in this case European citizens, on whether their taxpayers' money is being spent properly and appropriately.
In this sense, public audit is a central part of accountability and a useful basis for public debate.
In this regard, the Court's work has significant potential for impact.
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for the decision-makers in the institutions concerned – primarily the Commission, the Parliament, the Council and the Member States in the European context.
They can take action based on this information, with or without reference to the audit conclusions.
Although the Court's audit work has its main impact through its published reports, some impact is made throughout the audit itself.
In particular, all audits result in the production of detailed audit findings, which are sent to the auditee to confirm the accuracy of the Court's observations.
The final text of the report is also subject to an "adversarial procedure".
The replies of the auditee - namely the Commission - are published together with the reports.
In the replies, the audited body often acknowledges the problems identified by the Court and sets out the steps it intends to take to remedy them.
After completion of the audit work and publication of a report, the audit results are evaluated and used by the Parliament and the Council to carry out their political task of monitoring the use of the budget.
As part of the annual discharge procedure, the Court's reports form a basis for the relevant Council recommendation and Parliament's decision.
In the discharge procedure for the 2006 budget, particular attention was paid to the conclusions put forward by the Court in the area of structural actions.
In its 2006 discharge resolution, Parliament makes direct reference to an action plan proposed by the Commission as a direct consequence of the conclusions of the Court's annual report and requests quarterly reports on the progress of its implementation.
Parliament is also asking for better insight into the corrective actions taken to address the errors and weaknesses.
The special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, due to the fact that they are published throughout the year, the presentation of the special reports and their discussion in Parliament and Council meetings have usually taken place earlier.
A good example of a possible follow-up is provided by the recent Special Report on Building Expenditure (No. 2/2007).
In fact, Parliament has already entrusted its administration with preparing a report examining the feasibility of creating a European Building Authority to be responsible for the construction and maintenance of the buildings of the European Union's institutions and bodies .
The Court's audit report on controls carried out by Member States on exports of agricultural products (4/2007) can be cited as another example.
The Council and Commission promptly responded to the Court's recommendations by amending the applicable legislation.
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by promoting them in the relevant media, which attracts more attention and stimulates public discussion.
The media are the most direct source of information for citizens.
The media coverage of the Court's annual report is generally quite extensive, although some special reports have also been followed with interest by the press.
The fisheries report (No. 7/2007) attracted a great deal of media attention.
An Extraordinary Fisheries Council was convened to discuss the Court's report and the Commission started a process that may result in legislative changes to address the deficiencies identified.
This is an example of a report that, because of its relevance and timeliness, was able to make a particularly valuable contribution to the decision-making process.
Some guidance on the impact of the court reports published in 2007 has been provided in this section.
Details of the Court's follow-up to previous observations are provided in the relevant chapters of its annual report.
The Court's most frequent observation in its last annual report is that, despite the action taken, the shortcomings identified in the previous year have only been partially addressed.
When looking at the impact of the Court's work, the opinions should also be taken into account.
The Court intends to increasingly analyze the long-term implications of its work, both audits and opinions.
This can be illustrated by the example set out in Box 4.
27 BOX 4 - THE COURT'S OPINION ON THE 'SINGLE AUDIT' Over the years, the Court has published several opinions identifying ways to strengthen the overall internal control system for the EU budget.
A trend-setting contribution was made in this regard with the statement on the “single audit” (No. 2/2004) in 2004.
In this opinion, the Court proposes embedding the definition and implementation of all internal control in a single Integrated Control Framework, which includes common principles and targets and ensures that costs and benefits are proportionate.
The opinion on the "single audit" became a reference document for the Commission, but also for the Court, for example in its 2007 observations on the definition of effective and efficient internal control in the updated Implementing Rules of the Financial Regulation (Opinion 1/2007).
The integrated audit approach is reflected in the Commission's 2006 action plan towards an integrated internal control framework.
The Commission has taken steps to emphasize the role and responsibilities of Member States in the area of internal control. This includes the new obligation to provide annual summaries of opinions, statements and audits carried out under the regulations applicable to each spending area.
28 THE COURT'S POSITION NATIONAL SUMMARIES AND STATEMENTS Initiatives have been taken by the Commission and Member States to increase Member States' involvement in the accountability cycle for EU funds.
This aims in part to address the problem of material error rates in terms of legality and regularity in the main spending areas of the budget, particularly in those areas where management is shared between the Commission and the Member States.
Significant recent developments include the obligation for Member States to provide annual summaries of available audit results and declarations, voluntary initiatives by some Member States to issue national declarations and the decision by some national control authorities to issue audit reports on the management of EU funds.
In its Opinion 6/2007, the Court considers that all these elements, if properly implemented, could result in improved management and control of EU funds.
The opinion explains the conditions under which these elements add value and can be used by the Court in compliance with the requirements of international auditing standards.
As the Annual Summaries form part of the internal control system, the Court will assess to what extent they improve the functioning of internal control as part of its usual audit procedures.
Annual summaries, insofar as they highlight strengths and weaknesses, can lead to better overall control of EU funds in areas of shared management.
National declarations are based on voluntary initiatives by certain Member States; they are made at the highest level and submitted to national parliaments.
Although not conclusive audit evidence on their own, they can be understood as a novel element of internal control and can provide valuable information on the implementation of the EU budget.
The Court recognizes the potential usefulness of national declarations and national audit work in raising awareness in Member States of the importance of internal control of EU funds.
The audit work of the national control authorities (national audit reports) related to the legality and regularity of the EU expenditure or to the national declarations could provide audit evidence for the Court if it can satisfy itself on the usefulness and quality of the audit work in line with international auditing standards.
In this case, the Court will take account of the audit opinions issued by national control authorities when planning and conducting its own audits.
National statements and national assurance reports contain statements about control systems.
National declarations may also include specific audit opinions on the legality and regularity of transactions.
Experience shows that the main risk to the legality and regularity of transactions is the reliability of the information provided by beneficiaries when applying for EU funds, rather than the way in which that information is processed by Member States and the Commission.
A declaration that systems are functioning as required by EU regulations cannot, by itself, guarantee the legality and regularity of the transactions concerned.
Recognizing the need for a stronger role for national audit authorities in the overall accountability framework for EU spending, the Contact Committee of EU Supreme Audit Institutions has set up a working group to harmonize auditing standards and benchmarks specific to the EU context.
Common audit approaches and methodologies increase the Court's ability to rely on the work of national control authorities, provided the quality of that work is directly demonstrated.
EU BUDGET REVIEW In September 2007, the Commission published a consultation paper to launch an open debate on EU finances as part of a wide-ranging budget review.
At the beginning of April 2008, the Court presented its contribution to the debate, in which it outlined the main principles to be taken into account when designing new programs so that they have European added value in terms of clarity of objectives, a quest for simplification, a sense of reality , transparency and accountability.
Among other things, the Court recommended that the following aspects be taken into account: • • • • targeting spending programs not by input but by output; better use of the concept of tolerable risk in the design and adoption of spending programmes; degree of discretion to be granted to national or regional authorities in the management of spending programs and the related accounting; Considering whether the VAT resource is still a useful part of the own resources system, arguing for a review of all compensation mechanisms, guided by the guiding principles of the own resources system: fairness, transparency, cost-effectiveness, simplicity and contributing capacity of each Member State . 29
30 THE COURT'S WORK IN 2007 AND BEYOND AUDIT WORK DONE IN 2007 Each year the Court sets out its future audit work in a work program submitted to the Budgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament and publicly available on the Court's website.
The Court monitors the implementation of the work program as a basis for improvements in subsequent years.
2007 was marked by a significant increase in the number of adopted specific annual reports on the European Agencies and other decentralized bodies.
The number of special reports and opinions was similar to that of previous years.
The annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Funds were published as planned.
Results (number) 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 Annual reports (including EDF) 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 23 20 23 29 Opinions 2 11 8 9 In the field of financial and compliance audit (checking the observance of legislation), the Court applied its new assurance model for the first time in 2007 in order to obtain sufficiently robust results in the most efficient way.
The Court also decided to provide more detailed information on the results of its Statement of Assurance, in particular on the results of the individual transaction test.
In the Court's view, this provides useful information for monitoring purposes, together with a schematic presentation of the results of the systems assessments, against which progress in financial management can be measured.
ACTION PLAN AND PEER REVIEW PROCESS The Court constantly seeks improvements in all aspects of its work.
In 2005 the Court decided to undergo a peer review process.
It involves senior officials from a small number of SAIs assessing the organization or results of a sister body against professional standards and against the background of their respective professional experience.
Since all supreme audit institutions have similar responsibilities, peer review processes can provide an invaluable contribution to the improvement of audit bodies.
In preparation for the peer review process, the Court carried out a self-assessment in 2006, which gave the institution an opportunity to identify its strengths and weaknesses.
In 2007 the Court adopted an action plan to address the weaknesses identified.
The plan covered a total of 23 actions, six of which were the subject of task forces involving members of the Court and staff from different areas and levels of the institution: Organization 3. Internal performance indicators 4. People and internal communication 5. External stakeholders and communication approaches, external communication strategy 6. Improving the quality of reports The results of these task forces presented in 2007 included new statements of mission, mission and values and strategic goals for the Court, a new strategy and guidelines for internal communications and a report on ways to improve reporting quality. The peer review process started at the end of 2007.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE IMPROVEMENT OF AUDIT WORK Several of the strategic objectives adopted concern the institution's output.
The Court strives to make the impact of its audits more visible through the selection of relevant topics, timeliness and making its reports clearer and more reader-friendly.
It has also started to increase the number of its performance audits and improve their quality.
In 2007, considerable efforts were made to further develop the methodological basis of the Court's work, which is essential for high-quality audit work.
A new manual for financial and compliance audits was developed with a great deal of work and is due to be completed in 2008.
The Court's new performance audit manual was adopted at the end of 2006 and was therefore available to the auditors for guidance for the first time in 2007.
To further improve the quality of the Court's performance audit work, additional guidelines have been developed and a number of seminars and training events have been held.
In addition, the Court set new ambitious targets for the use of information technologies.
In the new IT strategy adopted in 2007, the Court announces its intention to increase its capacity to perform IT audits and to make the use of Computer Assisted Audit Techniques (CAATs) common practice in financial and performance audits .
It is important that the quantity and quality of the Court's output can be properly assessed.
The Court is in the process of developing performance indicators which should allow it to provide a variety of performance data in future annual activity reports.
For the future, the Court plans to develop a methodology to assess the institution's cost-effectiveness. 32
33 The Court's 30th anniversary In 2007, the European Court of Auditors celebrated its 30th anniversary as the external audit body of the European Union.
The celebrations began with an increased presence of the Court (seminars, information stands, etc.) in most European Union capitals as part of Europe Day 2007 activities.
In addition, on October 17, 2007, an exhibition entitled "30 years of the Court of Auditors" was opened, which included a series of thematic display boards, an audiovisual slideshow with more than 150 photos and video excerpts, and numerous documents.
The Luxembourg central bank issued a silver commemorative coin to mark the occasion.
On 18 October 2007, the European Court of Auditors organized a seminar entitled 'The Future of Public Audit in the EU', which was attended by a number of high-level experts from EU circles and executives from the institution.
IMPROVING NON-AUDIT ASPECTS AT THE COURT Many of the tasks envisaged in the Action Plan relate to communication, to which increased efforts were devoted in 2007.
Among other things, a new website was launched, information material on the annual report was published in a more accessible format, and the Court approved a new procedure for presenting its special reports to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
Other developments, most of which were directly or partly linked to the action plan, concerned the modernization of the Court's accounting system and new policy documents in the areas of human resources and IT.
The Court also started modernizing its information systems in the areas of audit, translation, knowledge and communication, management information and human resources.
In addition, in 2007 the Court made progress in preparing for a second extension of its main building, necessitated by recent and planned staff growth.
AUDIT WORK TO BE DONE IN 2008 7 In 2008, as in previous years, the Court will present, in addition to its annual report on the general budget of the EU, an annual report on the European Development Funds and specific annual reports on the European agencies and other bodies.
The planning of expenditure within the framework of the general budget of the EU takes place in seven-year cycles, so-called financial frameworks.
2007 was the first year of the new financial framework, which focuses on the implementation of the political strategies.
The Court takes this opportunity to dwell on an earlier innovation, namely the Commission's move to activity-based budgeting and management and the breakdown of the budget into 31 policy areas with around 220 activities.
The annual report for the financial year 2007 is structured into groups of policy areas, which are largely, but not entirely, based on the new headings of the financial framework.
Box 5 provides an overview, by audit group, of the selected audit tasks that have been completed or are nearing completion and for which special reports are expected to be published in 2008 or early 2009.
34 7 For more complete and detailed information on the Court's future work, see the Court's work program for 2008 on our website (www.eca.europa.eu).
35 BOX 5 Preservation and management of natural resources Implementation of the milk quota regime in the Member States that joined the EU on 1 May 2004 Management of EU support measures for public grain storage Clearance of accounts procedures in the area of the Common Agricultural Policy Structural measures, transport, research and energy Procedures the appraisal and evaluation of major investment projects of the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods The EU Solidarity Fund – how fast, effective and flexible does it work?
The Intelligent Energy Europe program (2003-2006) Effectiveness of expenditure under Structural Funds measures on waste water treatment in the programming periods 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 The Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession (ISPA) 2000-2006 Executive agencies are a useful tool to implement the EU budget?
External policies European Commission rehabilitation assistance following the tsunami and Hurricane Mitch Effectiveness of EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice Own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies, internal policies Binding Tariff Information (BTI ) How do Union agencies achieve results? Banking measures in the Mediterranean The Commission's treasury management In selecting new audit tasks, the Court has based a number of priority themes to which particular attention will be paid in 2008.
36 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH THE EU'S NATIONAL AUDIT BODIES According to the EC Treaty, the European Court of Auditors is to carry out its audit in "liaison" with the Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) of the Member States, while the Amsterdam Treaty later added: "The Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies work together in a spirit of trust while maintaining their independence.” This rule was extended in the Treaty of Nice by expressly requesting the Court of Auditors in the 18th declaration of the Final Act to set up a committee for contacts with the national audit bodies, in which all SAI- Presidents and the Court meet annually to discuss matters of common interest.
Ongoing contacts are maintained by the liaison officers appointed by each SAI.
Working groups have been set up to help develop common positions and approaches.
In 2007, a delegation from the Court attended the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of Presidents of SAIs of the European Union in Helsinki on 3 and 4 December, hosted by the Finnish Court of Accounts.
The session focused on “Risk management, acceptable risk and integrated internal control in the management of EU funds” and discussed the role of SAIs in this area.
The Court will host the next Contact Committee meeting on 1-2 December 2008.
In 2007, two Liaison Officers meetings were held in preparation for the Contact Committee meeting.
The first meeting took place on 23rd and 24th April in The Hague and the second on 11th and 12th October in Luxembourg, chaired by the European Court of Auditors.
Both sessions discussed recent developments in EU financial management and highlighted the work of the Cooperation Task Force, which looks at the Contact Committee itself, how it works and how it can be improved; in this context, suggestions were made for a more efficient design of work processes.
The meeting also covered the activities of the various working and expert groups set up by the Contact Committee to deal with specific issues of common interest.
The Court attended meetings of the network of candidate countries and candidate countries 'in the future' (Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey).
The Presidents of the SAIs of the candidate and future candidate countries and the European Court of Auditors met on 11 and 12 June 2007 in Skopje (former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia).
An important aspect in any effort to improve practical cooperation in auditing EU funds concerns the auditing principles used.
Against this background, the Contact Committee decided in 2006 to set up a working group, chaired by one of the Court's Members, Mr Josef Bonnici, to "develop common auditing standards and comparable auditing benchmarks based on internationally recognized auditing principles and adapted to the EU context (... ) should develop".
In 2007, the first meetings took place at the European Court of Auditors in Luxembourg.
In December 2007, a progress report from the working group was presented to the Helsinki Contact Committee and a related resolution was adopted.
OTHER INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court continued its active involvement and contribution to the improvement of international auditing standards through its membership of European and international public audit organizations, namely Eurosai and Intosai respectively.
Within the framework of Eurosai, the Court is represented in the environmental working group and in the IT working group and participates in the Eurosai training committee.
The Court hosted a seminar entitled “Analysis of the most common IT problems faced by SAIs” in Luxembourg on 17 and 18 April 2007 and a seminar entitled “Performance Audit – where do we stand?” on 4 and 6 December 2007 .
Since becoming a full member of Intosai in 2004, the Court has actively participated in the Subcommittee on Financial Audit Guidelines (FAS), the Subcommittee on Legal Compliance Auditing (CAS) and the Subcommittee on Performance Auditing (PAS).
The Court attended all FAS meetings held in 2007 and provided active input into the guidance issued and addressed.
The FAS appointed the ECA representative (Mr. Jesús Lázaro Cuenca) as one of the FAS representatives for the Professional Standards Committee Steering Committee project on Audit Quality. The Court also attended the January 2007 CAS meeting in New Delhi.
In addition, the Court's Translation Directorate provided resources for the linguistic revision of a document in Spanish and German.
Furthermore, the court on the XIX. Intosai Congress (Incosai) from November 5th to 10th, 2007 in Mexico, where two main topics were discussed: "Government Debt, its Management, Accountability and Audit" and "Evaluation Systems of Performance by Commonly Accepted Key Indicators - Targets and Performance Indicators". “.
In 2008, the Court will continue its active participation in the Eurosai and Intosai working groups, seminars and meetings.
37 Helsinki Contact Committee, December 2007
38 HUMAN RESOURCES HUMAN RESOURCES The Court's most important asset is its people.
They come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
The Court's recent modernization of human resources policy has focused on recruitment, training, career development and improving working conditions.
PROPORTION OF MEN AND WOMEN As at 31 December 2007, the 836 active staff (officials, temporary and contract staff, but excluding members, seconded national experts and trainees) were almost equal in terms of men and women.
As shown in the graph below, the proportion of women employed at the Court has increased since 2001 as a result of the Court's efforts to achieve gender balance.
Gender ratio of Court staff 46% 12/2001 54% WOMEN MEN 50% 12/2007 50%
The chart below provides an analysis of the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as of December 31, 2007.
Like the other European institutions, the Court follows an equal opportunities policy in human resources management and recruitment and recognizes the need to be more active in promoting the advancement of more women to senior management levels at the Court.
13 of the 56 directors and heads of department/unit (23%) are women; this corresponds to an increase of 3% compared to 2006.
Most of these are employed in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative services.
12/2006 12/2006 M 67% F 20% 12/2006 12/2007 M 77% 12/2006 M 80% 12/2007 12/2007 M 64% F 23% 39 F 68% M 32% M 32% F 68% F 68% Clerks - Secretaries (AST level) F 33% F 36% RECRUITMENTS WOMEN MEN Clerks - Secretaries (AST level) Accountants / Directors (AD level) Directors and Heads of Departments / Units Accountants / Directors ( AD level) Directors and heads of department/unit The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
In 2007 the Court recruited 179 staff: 117 officials, 35 temporary agents and 27 contract agents.
This high number reflects the progress made in 2007 in filling vacancies.
Recruitment is subject to EPSO competition reserve lists being available and containing a sufficient number of candidates; the procedure is sometimes quite lengthy and as a result there is at times an exceptionally high proportion of vacancies.
The court is constantly striving to shorten the deadlines in the recruitment process.
AGE PROFILE - CAREER OPPORTUNITIES The graph below shows that the Court is a 'young' institution (63% of staff are under 44 years old).
Among the 102 Court staff aged 55 or over are 27 of the 56 directors and heads of department/unit; this means that there will be extensive new appointments in the upper management levels in the next five to ten years.
40 38 68 94 114 81 147 149 AGE 25-29 45-49 30-34 50-54 35-39 55-59 40-44 20-24 > 60 153 AUDIT VISITS The Court's audit work requires the auditors to travel to the Member States and travel to other recipient countries of EU funds to obtain appropriate audit evidence.
The visits are usually to central and local authorities involved in approving, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as to the respective final recipients.
Audit teams usually consist of two to three examiners and the length of an audit trip can be up to two weeks, depending on the type of audit and the distance.
In 2007, travel expenses related to audit trips amounted to EUR 0.49 million (compared to EUR 0.43 million in 2006).
This represents a significant investment to ensure adequate audit coverage of all levels and locations of EU funds management.
The graphs below give an overview of the number of audit missions carried out by the Court in 2007 in the EU Member States and outside the Union.
Examination missions to Member States in 2007 50 40 30 20 10 0 Examination missions to candidate and other non-member countries in 2007 4 3 2 1 0 41 Serbia and Montenegro Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Germany Portugal Italy Spain Belgium Greece Czech Republic France United Kingdom Denmark Netherlands Ireland Finland Austria Poland Lithuania Hungary Bulgaria Sweden Slovenia Slovakia Romania Latvia Malta Russia Moldova - Ukraine Lesotho - Swaziland Guinea Tunisia Indonesia Bosnia-Herzegovina Albania Togo Sri Lanka Sudan Niger Nicaragua Morocco Madagascar Mali Kenya Ghana
In 2007, the Court's staff completed an average of 12 days of professional development.
The proportion of subject-specific training measures increased significantly compared to 2006.
Key developments in the field of training include the introduction of training courses on the Court's performance audit manual and guidelines, the Commission's accounting rules, the use of accrual accounting (ABAC), SAP financial systems and other applications in the areas of IT and IT testing.
In 2007, language courses accounted for 52% of the total number of training days.
The Court has adopted a master plan for training for the years 2008-2011, which envisages the development of professional training in the coming years, with a focus on the implementation of personal development plans for individual staff.
We are also examining the possibility of introducing a European Public Sector Auditor Diploma (PSAD).
Box 6 provides a portrait of the staff of a selected unit or department within the Court to give the reader an idea of the work carried out, the staff involved and their background and professional experience. 42
43 BOX 6 - THE FISHERIES REPORT - RESULT OF A SUCCESSFUL TEAM EFFORT The report adopted by the Court in 2007 on the systems of surveillance, inspection and sanctions in fisheries resources (Special Report No. 7/2007) excited both policy makers and business communities media attention.
Articles in numerous newspapers and the rapid response from both the Commission and the Council proved the relevance and timeliness of the report.
The starting point of this success was a team of a dozen auditors from the Court, working closely with the rapporteur, Mr Kikis Kazamias, and his cabinet.
Mr Emmanuel Rauch, a French auditor who has worked at the Court for several years, and his Spanish colleague Mr Alejandro Ballester were the audit team leaders during the preparatory phase in autumn 2005.
The audit included trips to six Member States, from Denmark to Italy, both to central managing authorities to gain insight into the control systems and to the main ports to assess how the systems work in practice.
Where the language skills of the team members were not sufficient, translators from the Court's language service provided assistance.
The audit team is very proud to have contributed to ensuring that policy makers begin to realize the serious consequences of the way in which the Community fisheries policy is implemented.
Other auditing bodies have also shown interest in the audit because it provides suggestions and know-how, for example, for an upcoming audit on a similar topic in the Baltic Sea countries.
Left to right, bottom to top 1st row Alejandro BALLESTER GALLARDO, Financial Controller (ES - 5 years at the Court); Kikis KAZAMIAS, Member of the Court (CY - 3 years at the Court); Riemer HAAGSMA, Head of Unit (NL - with the Court for 30 years); Emmanuel RAUCH, Chief Financial Officer (FR - 14 years at Court).
2nd row Jean-Marc DANIELE, Cabinet Attaché (FR – at Court for 5 years); François OSETE, Head of Cabinet (FR/ES - 23 years at Court); Robert MARKUS, Chief Financial Officer (NL - 13 years at the Court); Bertrand TANGUY, Financial Auditor i. E. (FR – at the Court for 3 years); Pietro PURICELLA, Principal Financial Advisor (IT - at Court for 11 years).
3rd row Anne POULSEN, Chief Translator (DA – at Court for 16 years); Maria del Carmen JIMENEZ, Chief Financial Officer (ES - 15 years at Court); Cécile RAMIREZ, secretarial assistant (FR - 5 years at the Court); Neophytos NEOPHYTOU, Cabinet Attaché (CY - 3 years at Court); Krzysztof ZALEGA, Financial Audit Advisor (PL - 4 years with the Court).
Other team members (not in photo) Valéria ROTA, Financial Controller (IT - 8 years at the Court); Adeline DOMINGUES, secretarial assistant (FR - 8 years at the Court); Juha VANHATALO, Financial Audit Council i. E. (FI - 3 years at court); Paul STAFFORD, Head of Unit (UK - 18 years at Court).
44 FINANCIAL INFORMATION BUDGET The Court's budget represents around 0.1% of the total EU budget, or 1.8% of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies.
There has been a 17% increase over the last three years.
This increase is primarily related to the consequences of the EU enlargements in 2004 and 2007.
Another significant increase can be observed in the Court's building appropriations (building appropriations practically doubled between 2006 and 2008) as future newly hired staff are to be accommodated in a second extension (K3 building), whose Completion scheduled for 2013.
Around 72% of the total budget in 2007 went to human resources.
BUDGET 2006 2007 2008 Use of appropriations Final appropriations (EUR 1 000) Members of the institution 11 350 11 270 12 061 Officials and temporary staff 77 907 82 583 88 712 Other staff and external services 4 223 4 014 4 248 Mission expenses 3 100 3 000 212 Other expenses related to members and staff of the institution 1 923 2 056 2 286 Title 1 - Total 98 503 102 923 110 519 Buildings 6 287 8 126 12 110 Computers and telecommunications 4 575 5 518 5 879 Equipment and furniture: purchase, rent and maintenance 1 320 1 396 1 147 Current administrative expenditure 807 435 425 Meetings and conferences 352 872 876 Information and publications 1 353 1 810 1 813 Title 2 - Total 14 694 18 157 22 250 Court of Auditors - Total 113 197 121 2 080
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE The Court's internal audit service aims to help the Court achieve its objectives through a systematic, methodical assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
In addition, the Internal Audit Service makes suggestions to increase the efficiency of the Court.
In general, it is about assessing the performance of individual departments in the implementation of strategies, programs and measures with the aim of continuous improvement.
In 2007 the Court's internal audit service focused on the financial audit (including supporting the work of the Court's external auditor), the audit of the ex ante verification, the implementation of the internal control standards, the most recent extension of the farm (the so-called K2 building) and the recruitment procedures of the farm.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert, oversees the work of the internal auditor and ensures his independence.
It also examines and approves the work program and reports of the internal auditor and assigns specific audit tasks to the auditor when the need arises.
The Committee met eight times in 2007.
THE COURT'S EXTERNAL AUDIT The opinion of the Court's external auditor for the financial year 2006, issued on 28 September 2007, states: 'In our opinion the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors at 31 December 2006 and the economic outturn for the financial year then ended in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and its implementing rules, generally accepted accounting principles and the internal rules of the European Court of Auditors. ' 8 Furthermore, the procedures carried out during the external audit did not give rise to questioning the adequacy of the administrative, accounting and internal control procedures and the compliance of the financial management with the applicable legal provisions.
C 292 of 5.12.2007.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2007 Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities 2008 - 45 pp. - 21 x 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8
To view our worldwide dealer network directory, fax to: (352) 29 29-42758. http://eca.europa.eu/portal/page/portal/eca_main_pages/splash_page
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS OFFICE FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES L2985 LUXEMBOURG ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 QJ-AA-08-001-EN-C
ISSN 1684-0666 EN ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2008 European Court of Auditors
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT FOR 2008
2 Europe Direct is here to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Toll-free number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Some mobile operators do not provide access to 00 800 numbers or charge a fee.
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2009 ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 © European Communities, 2009 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium PRINTED ON WHITE CHLORINE-FREE PAPER
FOREWORD BY THE PRESIDENT The Court of Auditors, as the EU's independent audit body, makes a unique contribution to improving EU financial management and promoting transparency and accountability by providing audit services and setting an example.
For the Court, 2008 was marked by a significant number of significant advances and important developments in the area of EU financial management, which are detailed in this annual activity report.
A defining event was the peer review of the European Court of Auditors by an international panel of experts, which led to a positive conclusion on the adequacy of the Court's audit management framework and on the independence and objectivity of its work.
In its annual report for the financial year 2007, published in November 2008, the Court gave for the first time an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the EU accounts.
However, as in previous years, it found excessive rates of legality and regularity error in the areas of the EU budget that account for the bulk of spending.
In 2008, the Court also acknowledged developments at EU and national level that should lead to significant improvements in EU financial management in the future.
Two examples given in this annual activity report concern the ongoing process of reviewing the EU budget, to which the Court has contributed actively, and the communication on the tolerable risk of error issued by the Commission.
In the area of international relations, the Court took the lead in organizing the deliberations of the Contact Committee of Presidents of Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) of the European Union on EU budget reform and the revised Lisbon Strategy, and hosted a recent workshop on the role of the EU SAIs in the context of response to the current financial crisis.
The rapidly changing nature of its audit environment prompts the Court to adapt through internal reforms in order to better meet its Treaty obligations and effectively fulfill its mandate.
A significant step taken by the Court in 2008 to fulfill its mandate and mission statement was the development of an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012.
The audit strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximizing the overall impact of audits and improving efficiency by making best use of resources.
These objectives will inform the Court's work programs over the period, as well as its efforts to continuously improve and capitalize on the key challenges and opportunities identified in the peer review process in terms of realizing potential for improvement.
Thanks to their competence and commitment, the Court's staff plays a central role in carrying out the audit work that the Court carries out as the independent guardian of citizens' financial interests with a view to improving financial management.
On behalf of the court and on my own behalf, I would like to thank all the staff for their commitment and professional work over the past year.
Special thanks go to our former Secretary General, Mr. Michel Hervé, who left at the end of 2008 for his personal commitment and commitment.
I hope you enjoy reading this Annual Activity Report, which provides an insight into the Court and an overview of the activities carried out in 2008.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
MISSION, MISSION AND VALUES MISSION According to the Treaty, the European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing the EU finances.
MISSION An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognized for its professionalism and the quality and impact of its work, offering valuable support to its constituency with a view to improving EU financial management.
VALUES Independence, integrity and impartiality Independence, integrity and impartiality for the body, its members and staff.
Professionalism Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Value Produce relevant, timely, high-quality reports that are based on sound evidence and evidence, serve the interests of the audience, and contain important and meaningful messages.
Excellence and Efficiency Recognizing the worth of the individual, supporting the development of special skills and rewarding performance.
THE COURT'S ROLE AND WORK THE COURT'S WORK STARTS WITH THE EU BUDGET The budget of the European Union is around €120 billion, which is around 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in financing public activities. The total budget volume corresponds approximately to the GNI of some member states.
The European Union's revenues mainly consist of Member States' contributions derived from their gross national income (GNI - 65.4%) or based on the Value Added Tax (VAT - 16.9%) levied by the Member States.
Customs duties and agricultural duties (the so-called traditional own resources – 16.5%) also account for a significant part of revenues.
The composition of the budget has changed over time, with agriculture and cohesion policies being the main spending areas (see Box 1).
BOX 1  HOW DOES THE EU SPEND ITS MONEY?
The EU budget is financed from financial contributions from Member States (mainly based on national GNI) and from customs and agricultural duties.
The EU budget is largely used for different purposes than national budgets, partly due to different areas of responsibility.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually account for a significant part of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural spending, usually in the form of payments to farmers across the Union, has represented the major part of budgetary spending, albeit currently on a decreasing trend.
In 2009, 45.3% of the budget is earmarked for conservation and management of natural resources, mainly for agriculture and rural development.
Since the 1980s, a significant part of spending has gone to cohesion policies, ie regional and social development. This involves co-financing a wide variety of projects – from road construction projects in Poland to training measures for the unemployed in Spain.
39.6% of the budget is foreseen to be spent on sustainable growth in 2009, with the lion's share going to cohesion measures.
This budget area also includes the bulk of EU research funding.
In addition, significant amounts of EU funds go to development and humanitarian aid, as well as to countries that have close ties with the Union or are candidate countries.
6.7% of the budget is used for the administration of the Community institutions.
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice The European Union as a global player Administration Agriculture - Preservation and management of natural resources 45.3% 1.2% 7.2% 6.7% EU spending Cohesion - Sustainable growth Source: General budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009 (OJ L 69, 13.3.2009). 39.6%
The budget is determined annually – on the basis of a seven-year financial framework – by the Council, ie representatives of the Member States, and the directly elected European Parliament on a proposal from the European Commission.
The Commission draws up the budget and is also responsible for its implementation.
The major part of the budget - especially in the area of expenditure for agricultural and cohesion policy - is implemented in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community spending is the high percentage of payments that are based on corresponding claims from the beneficiaries themselves, be they farmers or project managers anywhere in the Union. 8th
Democratic societies require complete and accurate publicly available information to inform discussion and decision-making, both to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
Like its Member States, the EU has an external audit body that plays the role of an independent guardian of citizens' financial interests.
In its capacity as the EU's external auditor, the European Court of Auditors ensures that EU funds, wherever they are used, are correctly accounted for and spent in accordance with the law, with due regard to the best use of funds.
The results of the Court's audit work are used by the Parliament, the Council and the Commission, as well as by the Member States to improve EU financial management.
The Court's work forms an important basis for the annual discharge procedure, during which Parliament decides, based on recommendations from the Council, whether the Commission has fulfilled its responsibility for the implementation of the budget in the previous year.
Despite its name, the court has no judicial powers.
In the budget areas under shared management, Member States work with the Commission to set up supervisory and control systems - ie internal control - to ensure that funds are used appropriately and according to the rules.
Internal control thus has both a European and a national dimension.
In addition to the Court's work, many national control authorities audit EU funds where they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
9 OVERVIEW OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU BUDGET EU level Internal control External control Commission (DGs, Internal Audit Service) European Court of Auditors Member States Implementing bodies National control authorities National level
(Performance Audit) HOW DOES THE COURT REPORT ITS RESULTS?
The Court publishes the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: Annual Reports - containing the results of the financial audit in the form of a Statement of Assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and on the activities of the European Development Funds3.
Special annual reports - containing the results of the audit of the accounts of the agencies and bodies of the Communities.
Special reports - with the results of selected profitability or Compliance Checks.
10 1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 Under the EC Treaty, the Court is required to issue such a statement - or opinion - on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In this context, the underlying transactions are usually payments to the final beneficiaries from the EU budget.
The annual declaration of assurance is commonly known by the French acronym DAS (“Déclaration d'Assurance”).
Contrary to the practice in the Member States, the Court makes such a statement on the EU budget as a whole.
3 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are based on both international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries
The Court conducts its audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), which apply to both the public and private sectors.
However, the existing international auditing standards do not fully cover the compliance audit performed by the Court.
Together with the national control authorities, the Court is actively involved in the further development of international auditing standards promoted by the standardization bodies (INTOSAI, IFAC)4.
In order to provide assurance that payments comply with the legal and regulatory framework, the Court relies on the results of both its examination of the supervisory and control systems designed to prevent or detect and correct errors of legality and regularity and one Sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
When systems are checked and found to be reliable, the number of transactions that the Court has to examine in order to reach a valid conclusion as to their legality and regularity is correspondingly reduced.
Other sources, such as the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions.
In performing performance audits, the Court uses a variety of audit methods to assess the management and control systems and to evaluate the performance data against the criteria derived from the legislation with a view to the principles of sound financial management.
In selecting the topics for our performance audits, the Court endeavors to identify audit areas where the greatest impact is expected in terms of demonstrated potential for improvement in terms of economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending. 11 were concluded, as well as Council decisions on the association of Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see policy group External Relations, Development and Enlargement) and partly through delegations in the beneficiary countries.
The investment facilities under the EDFs are managed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and are not subject to the Court's audit mandate.
4 INTOSAI (International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions – IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) International Federation of Accountants.
12 BOX 2  THE COURT'S ON-THE-SPOT AUDITS OF PAYMENTS FROM THE EU BUDGET The Court does not have the resources to audit all transactions financed from the EU budget in detail.
In connection with the preparation of the DAS, he therefore uses statistical sampling methods to obtain a result that is representative of the population as a whole.
The sample is selected by randomly selecting a representative sample of underlying transactions from all areas of the Union budget, such as agriculture, for detailed examination.
The Court traces these transactions down to the final recipient of the aid, such as a farmer in France.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks – e.g. B. Measurement of the size of the agricultural area - to determine whether the relevant information in the funding application corresponds to the actual circumstances.
Due to the fact that it is a statistical sample, the results can be extrapolated to the relevant population, ie a specific income or expenditure area, and together with information resulting from the system evaluation can serve as the basis for an auditor's overall assessment.
In practice, to determine what the audit opinion should be, the Court compares the results of its audits of statistical samples to a certain upper limit that we consider reasonable – the so-called materiality threshold.
Random selection of a representative sample Payment to an agricultural holding in France Population of payments in the agricultural sector
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS The Court of Auditors acts as a collegiate body of 27 members, with one member from each Member State.
All audit reports and opinions are accepted by the College.
The court is divided into five audit groups to which individual members are assigned.
As shown in the organization chart (see page 17), there are four thematic audit groups covering different budget areas (Conservation and Management of Natural Resources - Structural Policies, Transport, Research and Energy - External Policies - Revenue, Banking Activities, Administrative Expenditure, Institutions and Bodies of the Community and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or Coordination, Communication, Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development) is responsible for 'horizontal' issues such as coordination on the Statement of Assurance, quality assurance, the development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports.
In addition, a management committee is responsible for the preparatory work of all administrative matters requiring a formal decision by the Court.
THE MEMBERS The members of the Court are appointed by the Council, after consultation of the European Parliament, on the basis of proposals from each Member State for a six-year term; Re-election is permitted.
The members carry out their activities in full independence for the general good of the European Union.
In addition to their function within the college, which is responsible for the final decision-making on audits and opinions as well as on further strategic and administrative issues, each member is responsible for their specific tasks, primarily in the audit area.
The actual examination work is usually the task of the examiners in the individual examination departments and is coordinated by the responsible member with the support of his cabinet.
The member then takes on the task of presenting the report to the audit group or to the Court and, after its adoption, to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested third parties.
On January 1, 2008, three new members - Mr. Michel Cretin (France), Mr. Harald Noack (Germany) and Mr. Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) - succeeded their respective predecessors at the end of their term of office.
In addition, the mandates of four members - Mr Hubert Weber (Austria), Mr Maarten B. Engwarta (Netherlands), Mr David Bostock (United Kingdom) and Mr Ioannis Sarmas (Greece) - were renewed by the Council for a period of six years.
THE PRESIDENT The European Court of Auditors is headed by the President, who is elected by the members from among their number for a term of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
The President represents the Court in all its external relations, in particular in its relations with the discharge authority, the other institutions of the European Union and the supreme audit institutions of the Member States and beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, the Portuguese Member, Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, was elected the Court's tenth President. 14
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL The Secretary-General is the most senior official of the institution and is appointed by the Court for a period of six years; Re-election is permitted.
The Secretary-General is responsible for the administration of the Court's staff and affairs, including professional development and the Translation Directorate, with one unit for each official language (22), excluding Irish.
The Secretary General is also responsible for the Secretariat of the Court.
The former Secretary General, Mr Michel Hervé, left the Court on October 31, 2008.
On October 9, 2008, Mr. John Speed was appointed Secretary General mdWdGb.
On 10 March 2009 the Court appointed Mr Eduardo Ruiz García as the new Secretary-General with effect from 16 March 2009. THE COURT'S STAFF The 2008 budget foresees 858 posts (at 31 December 2008) for the European Court of Auditors.
The Court's auditors have a wide range of educational backgrounds and relevant professional experience in both the public and private sectors, particularly in the fields of accounting, financial management, internal and external audit, law and economics.
Like the other EU institutions, the Court employs nationals from all Member States. The staff is subject to the EU Staff Regulations.
15 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2009 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIENĖ (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČ (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSANET (ES) Nadejda SANDOLOVA (BG) David BOSTOCK (UK) Gejza Zsolt HALÁSZ (HU) Jan KINŠT (CZ) Olavi ALA-NISSILÄ (FI) Michel CRETIN (FR)
OVERVIEW OF THE AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS5 ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2007 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET The annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position and the results of the EU in all material respects.
The qualifications expressed in last year's annual report on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2006 are no longer valid for 2007 because of the improvements made in the meantime.
In some areas, such as the Union's administrative expenditure, the Court gives unqualified opinions on legality and regularity.
However, the Court cannot give an unqualified opinion on most areas of spending.
Although most of the payments audited by the Court were made in compliance with the legislation, the Court still considers the level of error in payments to final beneficiaries, such as farmers and promoters of EU-funded projects, to be too high.
With the exception of the cohesion actions, which have an error rate of at least 11%, the Court's estimated error rate for these policy groups is between 2% and 5%.
In some areas of spending, notably those formerly falling under internal and external policies respectively, the estimated level of error has fallen, but not so much as to change the overall picture.
The result does not imply that these breaches of the law are due to fraud or that most operations in these areas are illegal and/or irregular.
THE SITUATION IN SPECIFIC AREAS In three areas – administrative and other expenditure, economic and financial, and revenue – the Court's audits of a representative sample of transactions have shown low estimated levels of error.
In the Union's largest spending area - agriculture and natural resources - the estimated total error rate remains material.
Rural development, with its often complex regulations, accounts for a disproportionate share of this error rate.
For European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) expenditure, the value of the Court's estimated level of error is just below the 2 % materiality threshold.
As in previous years, the area most affected by error is cohesion measures, which account for more than a third of the budget.
Based on the Court's sample estimation of the proportion of transactions affected by errors, at least 11 % of the total amount of reimbursements should not have been paid.
5 This section introduces the Court's reports and opinions rather than summarizing them.
For more information, see the full text of the Court documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
19 WAYS TO IMPROVE MONITORING AND CONTROL The high level of error in areas such as cohesion is partly due to the inherent risk of the large number of beneficiaries applying for EU funding under complex schemes and legislation.
The deficiencies in the design and functioning of the systems also contribute to the deficits identified.
Most programs financed with EU funds contain corrective action provisions, which provide for the recovery, on a multiannual basis, of funds unduly paid due to errors.
However, no information is available on the impact of these measures.
This means that it cannot be specifically established whether they are effective in reducing the proportion of illegal and/or irregular expenditure.
The Commission has been working on a reform program to improve the management of the EU budget since 2000, which includes a 2006 action plan.
By the end of 2007, the Commission had implemented two thirds of the sub-measures from the action plan.
However, it is still too early to assess the impact of these measures.
Improved high-level controls – such as the Commission's monitoring of Member States' control activities – cannot compensate for poor lower-level controls such as on-the-spot checks.
However, the benefits of carrying out more on-the-spot checks must be weighed against the costs.
The Court recommends that the political authorities of the Union define what level of risk of error would be appropriate.
To reduce the error rate in EU payments, the Court recommends simplifying rules and legislation, streamlining internal control measures and improving monitoring and reporting.
18 BOX 3  SUMMARY OF THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF UNDERLYING TRANSACTIONS BY AREA OF EXPENDITURE The table summarizes the overall assessment of the supervisory and control systems as set out in the relevant chapters of the Annual Report 2007 and provides a high level summary of the results of the audits of the Court in relation to representative samples of transactions.
The systems Specific assessments in the 2007 annual report Cohesion: €42 billion Agriculture and natural resources: €51 billion External aid, development and enlargement: €6 billion Research, energy and transport: €4.5 billion Education and citizenship: €1.5 billion Euro Administrative and other expenditure: 8 milliard EurosrdAePnAERuDro Economy and finance: 0.5 billion Euro revenue Assessment of supervisory and control systems Range within which the error rate (FQ) falls are classified as “partially satisfactory” if some control arrangements are found to function adequately were, while others were not.
2007 AUDIT OPINION ON THE EDFs The annual accounts of the European Development Funds (EDFs) give a true and fair view of the financial position and results of the EDFs in all material respects.
The opinion on the legality and regularity of the operations of the EDF is qualified as regards payments.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS A further 28 special annual reports on the European Agencies and other decentralized bodies were also adopted in 2008.
19 BOX 4  INTERPRETATION OF OPINIONS An auditor can issue the following types of opinions: • an unqualified opinion when there is evidence that the accounts are reliable or the underlying transactions, ie payments, are legal and regular, in all material respects; • negative opinion when the level of error in the underlying transactions is material and pervasive or the accounts are unreliable; • Denial of an opinion when the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to support his or her opinion and the potential impact is both material and widespread; • Qualified opinion, when an unqualified opinion cannot be given, but the implications of the disagreement or limitations in scope are not so material or extensive that they require a negative opinion or a disagreement with the opinion.
SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 2008 In 2008 the Court published a total of 12 special reports.
In an effort to improve the readability and user-friendliness of its reports, the Court decided to publish its special reports in a new format and make them available directly on its website (www.eca.europa.eu), with only a reference in the OJ appears upon their publication.
As in previous years, the reports related to investigations into financial management issues in many different areas, ranging from the efficiency of the European Solidarity Fund (No. 3/2008) to the European Union's support measures for public grain storage (No. 11/2008 ).
The Court's audits revealed problems of all kinds, with all kinds of consequences, and resulted in recommendations for improving financial management and increasing efficiency and effectiveness.
The selection of topics for performance audits and their design are at the Court's discretion and are based on criteria such as risk analysis, potential for improvement and public interest.
In its special reports published in 2008, broken down by thematic areas, the Court provided answers to the following questions: Conservation and management of natural resources • Did the process of setting national milk quotas in the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 lead to the timely establishment of operational administrative and Control systems as a solid basis for the application of the EU regulation?
(No. 3/2008) • Had the Commission adequately planned, monitored and evaluated the Intelligent Energy Europe program (promoting energy efficiency, use of renewable energy sources and diversification of energy supply) and had an impact on the implementation of the programme entrusted Executive Agency to manage the program positively? (No. 7/2008) • Was there adequate preparation and a unified strategy? Were the ISPA projects carried out according to plan and did they contribute to the compliance of the beneficiary countries with EU environmental directives and to the improvement of the trans-European transport network?
External policies • Has the Commission adequately identified the rehabilitation needs of those affected by the tsunami and Hurricane Mitch and has the assistance been delivered in a timely and efficient manner? (No. 6/2008) • Has the administrative capacity in the areas of border control, migration and asylum management, Combating organized crime and the judiciary and good governance improved?
What were the causes of underperformance and to what extent was there a learning process at the Commission so that lessons learned could be used for further support in this area? (No. 9/2008) • Has EC development assistance for health care in sub-Saharan Africa (in line with EC commitments to fight poverty and achieve the Millennium Development Goals) been effective?
Were the financial and human resources allocated to the health sector in line with EC policy commitments, had the Commission managed to deliver this assistance more expeditiously and how effectively had the Commission used various instruments to support the health sector?
(No. 10/2008) Revenue, Banking Activities, Administrative Expenditure, Community Institutions and Bodies and Internal Policies • Has the system of Binding Tariff Information, which aims to promote the uniform application of customs policy and ensure the collection of the correct level of duties, been implemented effectively (adequate and in line with the law)? (No. 2/2008) • Have the EU regulatory agencies managed to implement the EU's key administrative and financial reforms to move towards results-based management?
Did the agencies adequately plan their actions, set up reliable tools to monitor their activities, and adequately report on their activities and arrange for informed evaluations of their results? (No. 5/2008) 24
25 SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 20086 No. 1/2008 No. 2/2008 No. 3/2008 No. 4/2008 No. 5/2008 No. 6/2008 No. 7/2008 No. 8/2008 No. 9/ 2008 No. 10/2008 No. 11/2008 No. 12/2008 Procedure for the examination and evaluation of large investment projects of the programming periods 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 (OJ C 81 of 1.4.2008) Binding Tariff Information (BTI) (OJ C 103 of 24.4.2008) The European Union Solidarity Fund: how fast, effective and flexible does it work?
(OJ C 185, 22.7.2008) How do Union agencies achieve results? European Commission rehabilitation aid after the tsunami and Hurricane Mitch Intelligent Energy Program - Europe (2003-2006) Is cross-compliance effective?
Effectiveness of EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice EC development assistance for health care in sub-Saharan Africa Management of European Union support measures for public grain storage Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession (ISPA ), 2000-2006 6 These special reports are available on the Court's website or by electronic order form from the EU Bookshop.
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2008 The Court also helps improve EU financial management by providing opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the process of adopting financial regulations7 or may be given at the request of one of the other Community institutions8.
In addition, the Court can issue opinions on its own initiative.
The Court's opinions can cover issues relating to specific areas of EU spending, such as the amendment to the Financial Regulation of the European Aviation Safety Agency (No 1/2008), or issues relating to EU revenue, such as the amendment to the Regulation on the system of the Communities' own resources (No. 2/2008).
Opinions draw on the Court's expertise in EU financial management issues, acquired over the years through its audits, and in some cases reference is made to specific audits or opinions.
For example, in its opinion on the new financial regulation of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor), the Court refers to its annual report for the financial year 2006, in which it had already drawn attention to high risks regarding the legality and regularity of payments for research aid .
26 7 Article 279 of the EC Treaty.
8 Article 248(4) of the EC Treaty.
27 OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 20089 Opinion No. 1/2008 Opinion No. 2/2008 Opinion No. 3/2008 Opinion No. 4/2008 Opinion No. 5/2008 on the proposal for a decision of the Management Board of the European Aviation Safety Agency on the Amendment of the financial rules of the Agency to a proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000 implementing Decision 2000/597/EC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources (OJ
FOLLOW-UP AND IMPACT Public audit plays a central role in promoting accountability and makes a useful contribution to public debate.
Audit activities account for those at the end of the information chain, in this case European citizens, on whether their taxpayers' money is being spent properly and appropriately.
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for the decision-makers in the institutions concerned – primarily the Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States in the European context.
They can take action based on this information, with or without reference to the audit conclusions.
Whilst the Court's audit work has its main impact through the published reports, some impact is made throughout the audit itself.
In the replies, the audited body often acknowledges the problems identified by the Court and sets out the steps it intends to take to remedy them.
After completion of the audit work and publication of a report, the audit results are evaluated and used by the Parliament and the Council to carry out their political task of monitoring the use of the budget.
As part of the annual discharge procedure, the Court's reports form a basis for the relevant Council recommendation and Parliament decision.
29 Examples of this can be found in the 2007 budget discharge procedure, where the European Parliament calls on the Commission and Member States to make efforts to simplify and further clarify the rules in order to reduce the risk of error, tighten controls and reduce costs.
This applies both to areas with shared management - such as spending on agricultural and cohesion measures - and to areas with direct management - such as spending on research or on culture and education.
The special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, due to the fact that they are published throughout the year, the presentation of the special reports and their discussion in Parliament and Council meetings have usually taken place earlier.
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by promoting them in the relevant media, which attracts more attention and stimulates public discussion.
The media coverage of the Court's annual report is generally quite extensive, although some special reports have also been followed with interest by the press.
An example of this is the special report on cross-compliance (No. 8/2008) published at the time of the adoption of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) Health Check.
Due to the importance of the cross-compliance regulation and its central role within the CAP, as well as due to the timing of its publication, the report received a wide response in the various media: television, newspapers, specialist press, Internet publications (press, agricultural associations, MEP websites, web blogs, etc.).
The report was also discussed extensively in the European Parliament and almost all of the Court's recommendations were taken up in the draft discharge report.
Details of the Court's follow-up to previous observations are provided in the relevant chapters of its annual report.
The Court's most frequent observation in its last annual report is that, despite the action taken, the shortcomings identified in the previous year have only been partially addressed.
The Court intends to increasingly analyze the long-term implications of its work, both audits and opinions.
As an example, the Court uses a Commission database of the follow-up to its audit recommendations as a basis for assessing the impact of its audits.
The assessment may trigger separate in-depth reviews leading to further findings and recommendations.
These may feed into a subsequent special report on the area concerned, or be recorded in a report on follow-up and the impact of recommendations on financial management.
THE COURT'S POSITION THE CONCEPT OF TOLERABLE RISK OF ERROR In relation to the development of a Community internal control framework, the Court, in its Opinion No 2/2004, considered that when approving EU spending rules the level of the to decide the risks they are willing to accept.
The Court suggested that Parliament and Council should agree on a reasonable balance between the costs and benefits of controls, in other words on the tolerable residual risk of errors in expenditure.
The cost of controls should be proportionate to the monetary and political benefits they bring.
Since the publication of this opinion, both the European Parliament and the Council have expressed in their discharge resolutions the wish to follow up the issue and to reach a common understanding of the tolerable level of risk.
At the end of 2008, the Commission issued a Communication entitled Towards a common understanding of the concept of tolerable risk of error.
The Court welcomed this communication and sent a reply to the Commission identifying certain limitations and setting out the main issues to be considered in future follow-up of this issue.
In its Communication, the Commission states that any decision on a tolerable risk of error should be based, among other things, on the potential for further simplification.
The Court also highlights the importance and benefits of further simplification and the potential impact on reducing errors and irregularities.
The concept of "tolerable risk of error" should be clearly separated from the notion of materiality threshold as defined and applied by the Court. The latter is the responsibility of the external auditor10.
In the Court's view, cost-benefit analysis of spending programs could provide information not only for discussions about tolerable risk, but also for reviewing the regulatory framework and governance of the programs concerned.
In this context, the relevant question may not be whether there is a tolerable risk of error, but whether the risk of error is so high that the scheme or program in question should be abolished/discontinued or fundamentally modified.
Specific attention should also be paid to the concept of tolerable risk when designing spending (and revenue) schemes or programmes.
It would be useful if spending programs had sufficient information, at the time of their adoption, of the risks involved and the cost of the controls envisaged to reduce those risks to an acceptable level.
In this way decisions would be made in an informed manner and with explicit consideration of the risks and costs involved.
The budgetary reform process may provide an opportunity for reflection on this issue, as suggested by the Court in its reply to the Commission's communication 'Reform the budget, transforming Europe'11.
31 10 The term "materiality" is defined in the international auditing standard ISA 320 as follows: "Information is material if its omission or misstatement could influence the economic decisions made on the basis of financial statements by users of financial statements.
Materiality depends on the magnitude of the item or error arising from the particular circumstances of the omission or misrepresentation.
Thus, materiality is more of a threshold or threshold than a primary qualitative requirement that information must have in order to be useful.” 11 See the European Court of Auditors' response to the Commission's Communication 'Reform the budget, transform Europe', April 2008
THE COURT'S ACTIVITIES IN 2008 AND BEYOND Every year the Court sets out its future audit work in a work program submitted to the Budgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament and publicly available on the Court's website.
The number of special reports and opinions in 2008 was similar to that of previous years.
Results (number) 2008 opinions 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 special reports 10 6 11 9 12 annual reports (including EDF) 1 1 1 1 1 special annual reports 23 20 23 29 28 2 11 8 9
AUDIT STRATEGY The audit strategy is based on the Court's strategic objectives.
33 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Professionalism Output Audience Development and growth Established auditing methods, appropriate auditing strategy, further development of auditing practice in the public sector, development of common auditing standards and comparable auditing standards for EU funds, cooperation with EU SAIs, effective "community control framework" selection of relevant auditing topics, Timeliness, clarity and readability of reports, quality of performance audits, increasing the impact of reports. Deepening of relationships with auditees to achieve better understanding of the audit process and wider acceptance of audit results. Strengthening of contacts with the European Parliament and Council as budgetary and discharge authority Communicate effectively with EU citizens Use the experience of the peer review process to strengthen and further develop the organisation, methods, processes and results d achieve maximum efficiency Pursue an effective and dynamic human resources policy Quality professional development; Modernization of infrastructure Implementation of IT strategies OBJECTIVES OF THE AUDIT STRATEGY 2009-2012 Maximize the overall impact of the audits Improve efficiency through best use of resources
The aim of the audits we carry out and the reports we produce is to help improve EU financial management and protect the EU's financial interests for the benefit of EU citizens.
The following key aspects are taken into account when formulating the strategy underlying the Court's activities: IMPACT EFFICIENCY Reports Audit work Work program In 2008, the Court developed an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012 in order to implement its mandate and mission statement.
A summary of this document is available on the Court's website.
The Court's strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximizing the overall impact of audits and improving efficiency by making best use of resources.
These objectives will have a major impact on the Court's work programs over the period and its efforts to continuously improve.
The Court aims to maximize the overall impact of its audits over the period in question by: • selecting and designing audits that focus on risk-related issues and are of most interest to the Court's audience; • continue to provide sound audit conclusions and useful suggestions for improvement, and follow up on whether these suggestions are implemented; • conduct a wider range of audits and produce new types of audit products to complement current annual and special reports; • created a larger number of special reports and improved their timeliness and user-friendliness; • further develops its relations with its key stakeholders, including the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as with the media and the general public. The Court aims to improve efficiency over the period in question by making the best use of its resources.
These include: • better governance; • an effective and dynamic human resources policy; • the rationalization of examination tasks; • the improvement of IT tools; • the development of professional competence; • developing relationships with the auditees. 34
AUDIT WORK TO BE CARRIED OUT IN 200912 As in previous years, the work program for 2009 includes the preparation of annual reports presenting the results of the financial audits that the Court is required to carry out under the EC Treaty and other EU legislation.
For 2009, the Court has identified a number of audit topics relating to policy developments and EU financial management issues.
In terms of developments in EU policies, the following themes have been selected: • growth and employment; • climate change and sustainable development; • Europe as a global partner; • better regulation.
In addition, in the area of EU financial management, the Court highlights the following issues, which it considers deserve special attention: • the completion of the 2000-2006 spending programmes, particularly in the area of the Structural Funds; • EU accountability and reform; • Progress of the Commission's action plan towards an integrated internal control framework, taking into account the concept of tolerable risk; • Management and control measures at Member State level.
The Court aims to cover these issues in its annual reports, special reports and some new report types (see below) from 2009 onwards.
The Court intends to publish a series of special reports and related novel reports based on the audit tasks it has selected.
The planning and implementation of these selected audit tasks and the related reporting usually extend over a period of more than one year.
Therefore, most reports published in a given year are based on audit work initiated in previous years.
Box 5 contains the selected audit tasks that have been completed or are nearing completion and the results of which are therefore expected to be published in special reports in 2009 or early 2010.
35 12 A more complete and detailed overview of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's work program 2009, available on its website (www.eca.europa.eu).
The follow-up to the recommendations is an important tool for the Court to actively contribute to improving financial management.
The report will include an analysis of the extent to which our recommendations have been followed and, where appropriate, an assessment of the effectiveness of the actions taken.
It is expected to be published around the same time as the annual report. — The other new type of report that the Court intends to produce is a report on high-risk areas of EU financial management.
The report is aimed at providing guidance to the new Commission, which will start work towards the end of the year.
DEVELOPING AND IMPROVING ACTION PLAN AND PEERREVIEW PROCESS In 2006 the Court carried out a self-assessment which identified its strengths and weaknesses.
An action plan to eliminate the vulnerabilities was then drawn up.
The Action Plan comprised a series of actions, as a result of which the Court: • defined its mission statement, its mission, its strategic objectives and its strategic planning; • developed internal performance indicators that will be phased in (see section below); • Adopted an internal communication strategy, which is already being implemented and which has opened up new channels for better dissemination of information within the institution; • took various measures to improve the quality of its reports, such as a new graphic design to improve readability and external evaluations; • Adopted a progressive strategy to improve the Court's relations with its stakeholders, the press and the general public.
In 2009, as part of its efforts to improve, the Court will endeavor to take up the observations and recommendations made in the international peer review report on the European Court of Auditors published in December 2008, which is an important stage in the Court's ongoing reform process.
The peer review was carried out by representatives of the national control authorities of Canada, Norway, Austria and Portugal.
The peers carried out their work in 2008 and in this context also contacted the Budgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament. The final report was presented at the end of 2008.
The aim of the peer review process was to assess the design and functioning of the Court's audit framework.
The review covered the following areas: • planning and auditing procedures for financial and performance audits; • reporting on the test results; • Services that support the Court in achieving its objectives.
The peer review team concluded that the design of the Court's audit framework is consistent with international auditing standards and good practice for SAIs.
The peers also noted that: • the Court conducts its work independently and objectively; • the Court's audit reports are based on sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as required by international auditing standards; • the stakeholders interviewed place a high level of trust in the Court's reports and generally find them to be fair, factual and objective.
The Court welcomes the peers' constructive comments and recommendations, identifying ways in which it can further strengthen its role as Supreme Audit Institution and highlighting the challenges involved.
These include the need to: • develop a culture that focuses on a consistent approach by the Court as an audit body; • Strengthen quality assurance and quality control activities with the aim of coherent interpretation and application of its audit strategies and methods; • Develop risk-based audit strategies to best use resources to meet the diverse needs of stakeholders.
The peer review report acknowledges that most of the recommendations contained in the pre-process action plan have already been anticipated.
The Court intends to include the remaining recommendations in its audit strategy for 2009-2012, following exchanges with its staff and stakeholders, and will endeavor to implement them during this period.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS INTERNATIONAL PEER REVIEW OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 38
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2008 the Court decided to introduce a system of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for its audit and non-audit activities to measure performance in achieving the Court's strategic objectives and the targets set in the Annual Work Programme.
ZLI serve to strengthen internal and external accountability and to increase work efficiency and quality. The ZLI will be gradually introduced in 2009 and 2010.
WHY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS? • To inform management on how successful the Court as an institution is in delivering on what it has set out to do; • to support the decision-making process by drawing the institution's attention to efficiency issues and encouraging improvements; • to provide information to the audience on relevant aspects related to the Court's performance.
They are intended to reflect the Court's performance as a 'company' and will become an integral part of the Court's management system.
The volume and quality of audit work can also be improved by considering the impact of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management.
Four key performance indicators (1 to 4) are used to measure the impact of the Court's work.
They are being developed with a view to their inclusion in the Court's 2010 annual work programme.
As a test, the Court measured performance in 2008 using ZLI 5 and 6.
ALI 5 - Number of reports adopted versus number of reports planned In 2008 the Court adopted 79% of the number of reports planned.
The annual report and most of the special annual reports were adopted as planned.
Of the 20 special reports planned, only 12 were adopted.
As of December 31, 2008, the remaining eight special reports were still being drafted.
ALI 6 - Number of reports adopted on time In 2008 the Court adopted 73% of its reports on time.
The annual report and all special annual reports were approved on time; however, further efforts are needed to improve compliance with the deadlines for the adoption of special reports.
ZLI 7, which measures the number of key audit communications produced on time, will provide useful performance information and will be finalized in 2009.
A ZLI (8) covers aspects related to the Court's financial management.
Two ZLIs (9 and 10) are designed to improve staff satisfaction and optimize the use of CPD as a tool for ongoing updating of knowledge of the latest auditing methods and techniques.
THE COURT'S KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the main users of the Court's reports Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the auditee Rating of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a panel of external experts Percentage of Audit recommendations a) accepted by the auditee b) implemented by the auditee within x years Number of reports accepted versus number of reports planned Number of reports accepted on time Percentage of audit statements prepared on time External assessment of the Court's financial management: a) Auditor's opinion b) Decision of the discharge authority Degree of satisfaction of the Court's staff Average number of training days per person 40 ZLI 1 ZLI 2 ZLI 3 ZLI 4 ZLI 5 ZLI 6 ZLI 7 ZLI 8 ZLI 9 ZLI 10
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH EU NATIONAL AUDIT BODIES According to the EC Treaty, the ECA is to carry out its audit in “liaison” with the Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs), while the Amsterdam Treaty later added: “The Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies work together in a spirit of trust while preserving their independence.” This rule was extended in the Treaty of Nice by expressly requesting the Court of Auditors in the 18th declaration of the Final Act to set up a committee for contacts with the national audit bodies, in which all SAI Presidents and the Court meet annually to discuss matters of common interest.
In December 2008, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of EU SAI Presidents.
The session focused on the reform of the EU budget and the revised Lisbon strategy for the period 2008-2011.
The Contact Committee seeks to increase cooperation among its members in order to improve external audit and accountability in the EU area.
The role of the Contact Committee has evolved over the years in parallel with European integration.
In addition to facilitating the exchange of information between SAIs and the ECA, this body has enabled significant advances in effective cooperation between the various control bodies.
At its 2007 meeting in Helsinki, the Contact Committee recognized the need to address emerging or new issues in a timely manner and agreed to provide a standing agenda item to address such topical issues.
Accordingly, at its 2008 meeting, the Contact Committee discussed the economic and financial crisis and agreed to hold a workshop on the role of EU SAIs in the context of the crisis.
A network was then set up to promote cooperation on audits related to the Lisbon Strategy and EU crisis management actions.
The Court attended meetings of the network of SAIs of candidate countries and candidate countries 'to be' (Turkey, Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro).
These meetings coincided with the Liaison Officers' meetings in May and October.
A delegation from the Court also attended a workshop on auditing/evaluation of systems of public internal finance organized by the network on 8 and 9 July in Ankara (Turkey).
Throughout 2008 the Court actively participated in the various working groups set up by the Contact Committee.
The Working Group on Common Auditing Standards, which aims to develop common auditing standards and comparable auditing benchmarks tailored to the EU environment based on internationally recognized auditing principles, met four times in 2008, chaired by the Court.
With effect from December 2008, the ECA took over the (rotating) presidency of the working group on VAT and the agricultural expert network resumed its work, chaired by a member of the ECA.
OTHER INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court continued its active participation and contribution to the improvement of international auditing standards and practices through its membership in European and international public audit organizations, namely EUROSAI and INTOSAI respectively.
A delegation from the Court attended the VII EUROSAI Congress, which took place in Kraków (Poland) from 2 to 5 June.
The main topics of discussion included the introduction of audit-related quality management systems in an SAI, the audit of social programs in the field of education and the professional integration of disabled people.
The President of the Court made a contribution on the role of senior management in establishing a quality management system for auditing.
Within the framework of EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the environmental working group and in the IT working group and participates in the EUROSAI training committee.
He also participates in the working group set up at the VII EUROSAI Congress to develop a guide to best practices for achieving quality in an SAI.
In addition, the Court is a member of the EUROSAI Task Force on Auditing Disaster Aid Funds. 42
At the EUROSAI Congress, the European Court of Auditors was appointed as auditor for the period 2009-2011 together with the Supreme Audit Institution of the Slovak Republic.
Since becoming a full member of INTOSAI in 2004, the Court has been an active contributor to the Subcommittee on Financial Audit Guidelines (FAS), the Subcommittee on Legal Compliance Auditing (CAS), and the Subcommittee on Performance Auditing (PAS).
The Court provided input to the subcommittee on promoting best practice and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews.
Since 2008, the ECA has chaired the Working Group on Accountability and Auditing of Disaster Relief (the successor body to the INTOSAI Tsunami Task Force).
A first meeting of this working group was organized by the Court as host from 30 June to 2 July 2008.
At this meeting, the draft work program for the period 2008-2010 was discussed and adopted.
The main objective is to develop guidance on accountability and auditing in this area, reaching out to all stakeholders through the appropriate standard setting body.
In addition to its coordinating role, the Court has taken responsibility for a number of tasks, two of them in cooperation with the Norwegian Court of Accounts.
Chairing this working group also means that the Court is represented in the meetings of the INTOSAI Governing Board. 43
Of the 857 staff (officials and temporary and contract staff but excluding members, seconded national experts and trainees) on active duty at 31 December 2008, 501 were examiners and assistant examiners, 163 were translators and 173 were administrative staff support duties and 20 in the services of the President.
They come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
For human resources, the court has defined the evaluation of the degree of satisfaction of the court's staff as a key performance indicator (ZLI 9).
A satisfaction survey was carried out to provide information on this topic and to support the decision-making process in this area.
MEN WOMEN 54% 46% 12/2001 12/2008 51% 49%
The chart below shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as of December 31, 2008.
14 of the 59 directors and heads of unit (24%) are women; this means a slight increase in the proportion of women since 2007.
Assistants — Secretaries (AST level) MEN Examiners — Administrators (AD level) MEN Directors and Heads of Unit MEN WOMEN 45 32% 68% 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 WOMEN 33% 67% 64% 36% 63% 37% WOMEN 77% 23% 76% 24%
AGE PROFILE The graph below shows that the Court is a 'young' institution (62% of staff are under 44 years old).
Among the Court's 98 staff aged 55 and over are 27 of the 59 directors and heads of unit; this means that there will be extensive new appointments in the upper management levels in the next five to ten years.
Age profile 46 33 2 65 148 148 123 101 62 3 172 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 >64 RECRUITMENTS The Court's recruitment policy follows general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, and the staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
In 2008 the Court recruited 97 staff: 48 officials, 18 temporary agents and 31 contract agents.
Recruitment depends on the existence of reserve lists of EPSO competitions.
Due to the lack of suitable candidates, the Court was not able to recruit as many new staff as planned in many units, so the total number of vacancies (69) at the end of 2008 was higher than at the end of 2007.
However, it should be noted that towards the end of the year a significant number of hirings were in progress and these staff are expected to begin work during the first quarter of 2009.
The Court is currently trying to reduce the delays in its recruitment procedures.
TRANSLATION Translation is an important administrative task that enables the Court to achieve its communication objectives and to comply with its legal obligation to publish in 22 languages.
Translation volume increased by 17% in 2008, mainly due to the acceptance of a higher number of special reports.
The vast majority of translations are done in-house and during busy periods when the translation units exceed their normal capacity, translation work is outsourced to the Translation Center (CTOU) or to external translation agencies.
In addition, the translators take part in audit trips and support the auditors before, during and after the audit trips, including the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
The translators provide constant support in updating the content of the intranet and the website in English and French.
They also support INTOSAI working groups and meet other specific needs related to the Court's activities.
The Court's Translation Directorate actively participates in the work of the Interinstitutional Committee for Translation and Interpretation (CITI), is a member of international committees and participates in international conferences related to the development of electronic tools for translation and documentation.
AUDIT VISITS The Court's audit work requires auditors to travel to Member States and other recipient countries of EU funds in order to obtain appropriate audit evidence.
The visits are usually to central and local authorities involved in approving, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as to the respective final recipients.
Audit teams usually consist of two to three examiners and the length of an audit trip can be up to two weeks, depending on the type of audit and the distance.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in liaison with the SAIs of the visited Member State , which provide useful logistical and practical support. 47
In 2008, costs of 3.29 million euros were incurred in connection with examination trips.
This major investment is necessary to ensure adequate audit coverage of all levels and locations of EU fund management.
The graphs below give an overview of the number of audit missions carried out by the Court in 2008 in the EU Member States and outside the Union.
50 40 30 20 10 0 5 4 3 2 1 0 Total: 283 TEST TRAVELS TO MEMBER STATES IN 2008 48 48 35 34 21 20 17 13 11 10 9 9 8 8 55 33 333332222 1 TEST TRAVELS TO NON-MEMBER STATES Total: 4A20 NON-MEMBER STATES Turkey Switzerland Malawi South Africa Tanzania Rwanda Peru Norway Kenya Bangladesh Angola Zambia Tunisia Sudan Senegal Palestinian Territories Mauritania Kosovo Jordan Georgia Armenia Egypt Congo Burkina Faso France Spain Germany Belgium United Kingdom Poland Italy Netherlands Portugal Sweden Greece Ireland Austria Hungary Estonia Slovenia Slovakia Romania Malta Latvia Finland Cyprus Lithuania Denmark Czech Republic Bulgaria Luxembourg
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The auditor's profession requires continuous development.
In 2008, the Court's staff completed an average of ten days of professional development.
The number of specialist training measures increased considerably compared to 2007.
In 2008 the Court increased its support for the participation of its staff in ongoing programs to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and degrees in external audit, internal audit and IT audit.
Language courses accounted for 48% of the total number of training days in 2008 (compared to 52% in 2007).
Excluding the language courses, the examiners completed seven days of professional training in 2008.
On the basis of the long-term strategic objective of “development and growth” and the master plan for training for the years 2008-2011 and the training pathways adopted in 2008, the Professional Training Unit has made improvements in the content of the training activities and new training courses in accordance with the priorities decided by the Court developed.
In addition, cooperation with the other institutions and interinstitutional bodies such as the European School of Administration continued successfully.
Box 6 provides a portrait of the staff of a selected unit or department within the Court to give the reader an idea of the work carried out, the staff involved and their background and professional experience. 49
50 BOX 6  THE TEAM RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AUDIT ON INTELLIGENT ENERGY The Report on the Intelligent Energy – Europe Program 2003-2006 adopted by the Court in 2008 (Special Report No 7/2008) provided an insight into the workings of a subsidy scheme to improve the use of energy efficient technologies.
It covered the established procedures for the allocation of funds for individual projects, the monitoring and evaluation modalities, the administrative costs and the impact of setting up an executive agency.
The team responsible for conducting the audit worked closely with the reporting member, Mr David Bostock.
The head of department responsible for supervising the test was Hendrik Fehr, and Peggy Vercauteren was the team leader.
The examiners involved were Oliver Müller, Peter Zsapka, Zoltán Giday and Carl-Christian Buhr, with Gerhard Ross, Thomas af Hällström and Peter Welch from Mr David Bostock's cabinet also playing an important role.
The audit involved a survey to gather information from a diverse group of participants.
Various cost accounting techniques have been used to complete and complement the information available at the Commission.
The audit found that the program was managed according to the Commission's usual approaches and guidelines.
However, the spending pattern was poorly targeted and the monitoring and evaluation did not allow an assessment of the overall quality of the programme.
The administrative costs (for the Commission, the Agency and the participants) incurred during the lifetime of the program were relatively high - about the same as the amount paid to the participants over the same period.
The establishment of the Executive Agency had improved participants' satisfaction with the programme.
From left to right: Hendrik Fehr, director (25 years at the court), David Bostock, member of the court (7 years at the court), Zoltán Giday, auditor (3 years at the court), Peggy Vercauteren, chief auditor (5 years at the court) , Oliver Müller, chief financial auditor (6 years at court), Peter Welch, head of cabinet (13 years at court), Gerhard Ross, head of department (11 years at court), Thomas af Hällström, chief financial auditor (8 years at court).
FINANCIAL INFORMATION BUDGET The Court's 2009 budget represents around 0.16% of the total EU budget, or 2.4% of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies.
Compared to 2008, there was an increase of 41 %, mainly due to the Court's construction appropriations, as following further staff increases, staff will be accommodated in a second extension (K3 building), due for completion in 2013.
In February 2008, negotiations on the financing modalities started with the budgetary authority.
As a result, the construction project, whose total cost is estimated at 79 million euros, will be funded from four consecutive annual budgets.
In October 2008, the budgetary authority approved a tranche of EUR 55 million for the 2009 budget.
Around 52% of the total budget in 2009 was spent on human resources.
2007 2008 BUDGET Members of the institution Officials and temporary staff Other staff and external services Mission expenses Other expenses of Members and staff of the institution Title 1 total Buildings Computer and telecommunications Equipment and furniture: acquisition, rent and maintenance Current material expenditure for the running of the service Meetings and Conferences Information and publications Title 2 Total Court of Auditors Total 11 270 82 583 4 014 3 000 2 056 102 923 8 126 5 518 1 396 435 872 1 810 18 157 110 519 2009 (in 1 000 euros) 11 718 42 918 907 2 684 114 275 62 891 6 269 981 439 868 1 921 73 369 187 644 12 061 88 712 4 248 3 212 2 286 12 110 5 879 1 147 121 080 142 5 879 2 2 5 87 3 2 0
In general, it is about assessing the performance of individual departments in the implementation of strategies, programs and measures with the aim of continuous improvement.
In 2008, the Court's internal audit service focused on the audit of the accounts (verification of the accounting records), the verification of the ex-ante audit, the recruitment process, the grants and allowances for recruitment, the building maintenance, the expenditure on utilities and services, the implementation of the IT strategy and a review of the control framework in the IT area.
Most of the audit recommendations made by the Internal Auditor in 2008 were accepted by the auditees and incorporated into corrective action plans.
The Internal Audit Committee met six times in 2008 and focused on following up the internal auditor's recommendations.
Other topics included the Committee's own activity report for 2007 and the Court's 2007 report to the discharge authority on the Office of the Internal Auditor.
The Internal Audit Committee held two meetings with the Court's independent auditor to discuss the status of the 2007 audit.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE COURT In its opinion on the financial year 2007 (OJ C 318, 12.12.2008), the Court's independent auditor formulated the following conclusions: On the accounts: "In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2007 and the results of operations and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Regulation (EC, Euratom ) No. 2342/2002 of the Commission of December 23, 2002 with implementing provisions for the aforementioned Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors." Regarding the use of resources and the control procedures: "(...) we (have) not encountered any facts from which we would have to conclude that in all material respects and taking into account the B assessment criteria a) the appropriations allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and b) the control procedures put in place do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the rules and regulations in force.”
52
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 QJ-AA-09-001-DE-C
ISSN 1684-0666 ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2009 EN EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2009
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2010 ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518 © European Union, 2010 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
4 FOREWORD BY THE PRESIDENT 4 Welcome to the European Court of Auditors' Annual Activity Report 2009.
The aim of this report is to provide readers with an overview of the main results and progress made by the Court during the year and also to inform them of the main developments in its audit environment and internal organisation.
2009 was an important year of renewal for the EU, marked by the election of a new European Parliament, the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty and the start of the process of selecting a new European Commission.
The new treaty confirms the Court's role and mandate, its status as an EU institution, and introduces changes to the way EU funds are managed and controlled, reinforcing the role of the European Parliament and stressing Member States' responsibility for implementing the budget becomes.
We believe that these developments will present good opportunities to improve EU financial management.
The Court's view section summarizes our opinion on the risks and challenges that the new Commission will face.
Great importance is attached to improving the quality of EU spending.
We have made significant progress during the year in implementing our 2009-2012 audit strategy and towards achieving our goals of increasing the impact of our work and making better use of our resources.
A key step was our decision to submit new Rules of Procedure to the Council of the European Union for approval, designed to streamline our procedures for adopting reports and opinions.
In addition, the number of reports produced by the Court increased from 42 in 2008 to 57 in 2009.
I am also pleased to report that our flagship product, the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, has once again been well received by our key institutional stakeholders, who have endorsed many of our recommendations.
During 2009, the Court continued to work actively with Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) to develop common approaches to auditing EU funds and to reflect on how SAIs support governments in managing financial and economic challenges to support the economic crisis.
The Court's performance depends on the competence and motivation of its 880 employees.
Their satisfaction is a key factor in the farm's success and is quantified for the first time in this report.
I would like to thank the Court's staff for their tireless and dedicated work in enabling the Court to fulfill its mission.
6 6 MISSION, MISSION, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES MISSION MISSION VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing the EU finances under the Treaty.
As the EU's external auditor, it helps improve EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRITY AND IMPARTIALITY Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and staff To provide its constituency with appropriate audit results, refusing any form of influence by external direction or pressure PROFESSIONALITY Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of its work ADDED VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Produce relevant, timely reports of high quality, supported by sound evidence and evidence, reflects the interests of its audience and contains important and guiding statements Recognizing the value of the individual, assisting in the development of special skills and rewards of performance Active participation in the further development of public auditing at EU level and worldwide Promotion of team spirit through effective communication Increase in efficiency at a In all aspects of its work Contribute to effectively improving the management of the EU budget and contribute to increasing accountability for the management of EU funds
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 7 PROFESSIONALITY OUTPUT TARGET GROUP FURTHER DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH Solid audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with the EU SAIs, effective “community control framework” selection of relevant audit topics, Timeliness, clarity and readability of reports Quality of performance audits Increasing the impact of reports Deepening relationships with auditees to achieve better understanding of the audit process and wider acceptance of audit results Leveraging peer review experience -Procedures to strengthen and further develop organisation, methods, procedures and results in order to achieve maximum efficiency. Increased contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as budgetary and discharge authority e Pursue an effective and dynamic human resources policy Quality professional development; Modernization of infrastructure Effective communication with EU citizens Implementation of IT strategies OBJECTIVES OF THE AUDIT STRATEGY 2009-2012 ◆ Maximize the overall impact of the audits ◆ Improve efficiency by making the best use of resources
8 THE COURT'S ROLE AND WORK 8 THE COURT'S WORK STARTS WITH THE EU BUDGET The budget (2010) of the European Union is around €123 billion, which represents around 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in financing public activities and compared to the GNI of several Member States, the total budget is significant.
The European Union's revenue mainly consists of Member States' contributions derived from their gross national income (GNI - 76%), customs and agricultural duties (the so-called traditional own resources - 12%) and a contribution based on those levied by the Member States Value Added Tax (VAT – 11%).
BOX 1 - WHAT DOES THE EU SPEND ITS MONEY ON?
The EU budget is financed from Member States' financial contributions (mainly based on national GNI), customs and agricultural duties and VAT contributions.
The EU budget is largely used for different purposes than national budgets, partly due to different areas of responsibility.
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1.1% Preservation and management of natural resources (mainly agriculture) 47.3% The largest single area of EU spending is agriculture and rural development - primarily in the form of payments to farmers -, accounts for almost half of household expenditure.
Another big part is the Cohesion Actions - regional and social development - which co-finance a wide range of projects, from road projects in Latvia to training for the unemployed in the Netherlands.
This area accounts for about a third of household expenditure.
The European Union as a global player EU expenditure Source: General budget of the European Union for financial year 2010. Administration 6.4% 6.3% Sustainable growth (mainly cohesion) 38.8%
The budget is approved annually – on the basis of seven-year financial frameworks – by the Council, ie representatives of the Member States, and the directly elected European Parliament.
The European Commission draws up the budget and is also responsible for its implementation.
Most of the budget - particularly in the area of agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure - is implemented in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community spending is the high percentage of payments that are based on corresponding claims from the beneficiaries themselves, be they farmers or project managers anywhere in the Union. 9
10 WHAT ROLE DOES THE COURT?
Democratic societies need accurate, publicly available information to inform discussion and decision-making, both to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
In its capacity as the EU's external auditor, the European Court of Auditors ensures that EU funds are correctly accounted for, wherever they are spent, and that they have been spent in accordance with the relevant legislation and with due regard to the need for value for money.
The results of the Court's audit work are used by the Commission, Parliament and Council, as well as by Member States to improve EU financial management.
In addition to the Court's work, many national control authorities audit EU funds where they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
OVERVIEW OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU BUDGET EU level Commission (DGs, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing bodies European Court of Auditors National control authorities National level Internal control External control
(FINANCIAL AUDIT) 2. Are the financial operations in all material respects in accordance with the relevant legal and other regulatory framework?
(COMPLIANCE CHECK) 3. Is the financial management sound, ie has the use of resources been kept to a minimum (economy), have the results been achieved with the least possible use of resources (efficiency) and have the intended goals been achieved (effectiveness)?
The Court publishes the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: Annual Reports - containing the results of the financial audit in the form of a Statement of Assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and on the activities of the European Development Funds3.
Special annual reports - containing the results of the audit of the accounts of the agencies and decentralized bodies of the Union.
11 1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 The TFEU requires the Court to issue such a statement - or opinion - on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual declaration of assurance is commonly known by the French acronym DAS (“Déclaration d'Assurance”).
12 HOW DOES THE COURT APPROACH ITS AUDITS?
The Court conducts its audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with international auditing standards, which apply to both the public and private sectors.
However, the existing international auditing standards do not cover the compliance audit performed by the Court.
Together with the national control authorities, the Court is actively involved in the further development of international auditing standards promoted by the standard-setting organizations (INTOSAI, IFAC)4.
In order to provide assurance that payments comply with the legal and other regulatory framework, the Court relies on the results of both its examination of the supervisory and control systems designed to prevent, or detect and correct, legality and regularity errors and also a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Other sources, such as the declarations of management of the audited entities in the form of the annual activity reports of the Commission's Directors-General and the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions.
In performing performance audits, the Court uses a variety of audit methods to assess the management and control systems and assess the performance data against criteria derived from the legislation and against the principles of sound financial management.
In selecting the topics for our performance audits, the Court endeavors to identify audit areas where the greatest impact is expected in terms of demonstrated potential for improvement in terms of economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU spending.
3 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are based both on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, and on Council decisions on association from Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see policy group External Relations, Development and Enlargement) and partly through delegations in the beneficiary countries.
4 INTOSAI (International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions) – International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) – International Federation of Accountants.
BOX 2 - THE COURT'S AUDIT OF A SAMPLE OF PAYMENTS FROM THE EU BUDGET 13 The Court does not have the resources to audit all transactions related to the EU budget in detail.
Therefore he uses statistical sampling techniques to present a result representative of the populations concerned.
The Court traces these transactions down to the final beneficiary of the grant, for example a promoter in Italy.
The court then checks – often on the spot – whether the application corresponds to the actual circumstances.
The fact that the sample is representative allows the results to be extrapolated to the relevant population, ie a specific area of income or expenditure, and together with information resulting from the assessment of management and control systems and other sources, as a serve as the basis for an overall audit opinion.
SELECTION OF A SAMPLE OF TRANSACTIONS Random selection of a representative sample Universe of payments in the Cohesion area Payment to a promoter in Italy
14 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES5 14 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION The Court of Auditors acts as a collegiate body of 27 members, with one member from each Member State. The members are appointed by the Council after consultation of the European Parliament for a term of six years.
The members elect a president from among their number for three years, with the possibility of re-election.
Five audit groups, to which individual members of the Court are assigned, prepare the reports and opinions for the Court's adoption.
As can be seen from the organization chart, there are four thematic audit groups covering different budget areas and another audit group dealing with 'horizontal' issues.
In addition, a management committee composed of members of the Court is responsible for the preparation of the Court's administrative decisions.
At the end of 2009, the Court submitted a proposal to the Council to amend its Rules of Procedure to allow certain categories of Court opinions and reports to be adopted by the College of Chambers rather than the entire College.
These changes make the Court's decision-making streamlined and more efficient, including by reducing the time taken to adopt decisions.
Each chamber has two areas of responsibility: the first is the adoption of special reports, special annual reports and opinions, the second is the preparation of draft observations for the annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Funds and draft opinions for adoption by the college .
As for the Court, decisions are taken by a majority of the members of the Chamber.
Members can attend meetings of any chamber, but have voting rights only in the chamber to which they have been assigned by the Court.
Of course, the whole college continues to meet to discuss and adopt those documents for which the Court alone is responsible, such as the annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds.
The role of the Management Committee will be strengthened.
The Committee is composed of the President of the Court, who presides, and the Dean of the Chambers.
Administrative matters requiring a Court decision to be dealt with, as well as decisions on procedural, policy or strategic issues, are prepared by the Committee before being submitted to the Court for adoption.
The member then presents the report to the scrutiny group and to the Court and, once the report has been approved, also presents it to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested third parties.
5 Further details are available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
THE COURT'S STAFF The 2009 budget foresees 880 posts (at 31 December 2009) for the European Court of Auditors.
The Court's audit staff are responsible for planning and conducting audits and preparing the resulting draft reports.
The auditors work in teams of different sizes: in some specific audits there is a team of four or five auditors, while in some of the Court's broader audits (e.g. financial/compliance audits in the area of agricultural and cohesion spending on the preparation of the annual statement of assurance) 20 or more auditors are involved.
As a rule, the auditors have to obtain audit evidence as part of an audit through various processes: desk reviews in Luxembourg, visits to the European Commission and "on-the-spot" audit visits to the Member States where the revenue flowing into the EU budget is created and the revenue from it actions funded by the EU budget are carried out.
The Court's reports and opinions must be accessible to readers across the Union. In addition, the Court's audit work has to be in contact with authorities and other bodies across the Union.
This would not be possible without the Court's translators, who translate its reports and opinions (almost all in English or French) into 22 of the official languages of the Union.
They also translate correspondence between the Court and other bodies as needed and, in some cases, assist the auditors in conducting audit visits to Member States.
The Court's administrative staff are responsible for a wide range of support tasks arising in a multinational entity operating in the EU context.
This concerns finance, accounting, budget, buildings, information technology, transport, security, etc. The Secretary-General is the Court's most senior official and is responsible for the management of human resources and the administration of the Court. 15
16 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2009 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIENĖ (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČ (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSANET (ES) Nadejda SANDOLOVA (BG) David BOSTOCK (UK) Gejza HALÁSZ (HU) Jan KINŠT (CZ) Olavi ALA-NISSILÄ (FI) Michel CRETIN ( FR) 16 This organizational chart is current as of February 1, 2010.
An updated version is available on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu.
18 18 OVERVIEW OF AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS6 The number of special reports in 2009 was higher than in previous years, while the number of opinions decreased.
The annual reports on the general budget and on the European Development Funds were adopted as planned.
RESULTS (NUMBER) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Special reports 6 11 9 12 18 Annual reports (including EDF) 1 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 20 23 29 29 37 Opinions 11 8 9 5 1 ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2008 EU revenue and expenditure.
The results of this audit are presented to the EU's political bodies, Parliament and Council, in the Court's annual reports.
6 This section introduces the Court's reports and opinions rather than summarizing them.
For more information, see the full text of the documents adopted by the Court, published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET: SIX KEY MESSAGES • The annual accounts of the European Union give a true and fair view of the financial position and results. • As regards the legality and regularity of transactions, the overall results for 2008 reflect improvements in financial management over the past few years. • The overall progress achieved in 2008 is mainly due to better results in the largest policy group, 'Agriculture and natural resources'.
For rural development, the estimated level of error is lower than in previous years, but still significant.
For the first time, the Court does not give a negative audit opinion on Agriculture and Natural Resources as a whole. • The second largest policy group, 'Cohesion', which accounts for almost a third of the budget, remains problematic as the budget area most affected by errors.
According to the Court's estimate, at least 11 % of the total reimbursement payments should not have been made. • The recommendations made by the Court in the past to improve the supervisory and control systems remain valid.
They are to be seen as part of an ongoing process in which the relevant measures can only be considered effective after some time. • In addition, particular attention should be paid to those areas of expenditure where the Court continues to find a high level of error.
In many cases, the errors are a result of overly complex rules and regulations.
Therefore, simplification remains a priority. 19
20 Unqualified opinion on the reliability of the accounts The Court has come to the conclusion that the annual accounts of the European Communities for 2008 give a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Communities and the results of its operations and cash flows, in all material respects.
Unqualified opinions For 2008, the Court gave unqualified opinions on 'Revenue', commitments in all policy groups, payments in 'Education and citizenship' and 'Administrative and other expenditure'.
Qualified opinions Payments in policy group 'Agriculture and natural resources', with the exception of rural development, were legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments under the policy group 'Economy and finance', with the exception of expenditure on the sixth framework program for research and technological development (FP6) covered by this policy group, were legal and regular in all material respects.
Negative audit opinions The Court issued negative audit opinions on the thematic areas of 'Cohesion', 'Research, Energy and Transport' and 'External Aid, Development and Enlargement'.
Payments in these policy areas were affected by material error, albeit to varying degrees.
Need for improvement in monitoring and control systems The monitoring and control systems in the thematic areas of "Research, Energy and Transport", "External Aid, Development and Enlargement" and "Education and Citizenship" were defective in terms of preventing or detecting and correcting the reimbursement of excessive or non-reimbursable costs conditionally effective.
In the case of policy group 'Agriculture and natural resources', the Court also concluded that the supervisory and control systems were partially effective.
However, he pointed out that the integrated administration and control system (IACS) is still an effective control system in general.
However, improvements are needed in some areas, notably rural development, where there have been shortcomings.
In the case of the policy group 'Economy and Finance', the supervisory and control systems were found to be effective in two of the three areas audited.
In the third area, 'Enterprise', the systems were rated as only partially effective, largely due to shortcomings related to FP6.
In the case of policy group 'Cohesion', the Court found that the Member States' systems dedicated to correcting errors detected during national controls were in most cases at least partially effective.
The Commission, Member States and other beneficiary countries need to make further efforts to implement the necessary improvements on the above issues in order to adequately manage the risk of irregular spending.
BOX 3 – INTERPRETATION OF OPINIONS 21 An auditor can issue the following types of opinions: • an unqualified opinion when there is evidence that the accounts are reliable or the underlying transactions, ie payments, are legal and regular in all material respects; • negative opinion when the level of error in the underlying transactions is material and pervasive or the accounts are unreliable; • • Denial of an opinion when the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to support his or her opinion and the potential impact is both material and widespread; Qualified opinion when an unqualified opinion cannot be given, but the implications of disagreements or limitations in scope are not so material or extensive as to require a negative opinion or a disagreement with the opinion.
22 BOX 4 - SUMMARY OF THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF THE UNDERLYING TRANSACTIONS BY AREA OF EXPENDITURE The table below summarizes the overall assessment of the supervisory and control systems as set out in the relevant chapters of the Annual Report 2008 and provides a high level summary of the results of the Court audits of representative samples of transactions.
The table provides the core statements, but not all relevant details (in particular on the deficiencies in the monitoring and control systems and the types of errors). This information can be found in the main part of the report.
SYSTEM ASSESSMENT MARGIN OF ERROR RATIO Revenue Agriculture and natural resources: €55 billion Cohesion: €36.6 billion Research, energy and transport: €7.5 billion External aid, development and enlargement: €6.2 billion Education and citizenship: €1.7 billion Euro Economy and Finance: 0.6 billion Euro Administrative and other expenditure: 8.5 billion Euro Assessment of supervisory and control systems Not effective Partially effective Effective Range in which the estimated FQ > 5% 2% ≤ FQ ≤ 5% FQ < 2% (below the error rate (FQ) is the materiality threshold)
THE 2008 AUDIT OPINION ON THE EDFs The Court concluded that the 2008 accounts of the EDFs give a true and fair view of the financial position of the EDFs in all material respects.
As regards the legality and regularity of transactions, the Court gave an unqualified opinion on the EDF's revenue and commitments.
The Court also concluded that EDF payments were affected by material error.
The Court assessed the supervisory and control systems for the EDFs as partially effective.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS In addition, in 2009 a further 37 special annual reports on the agencies and other decentralized bodies of the European Union for the financial year 2008 were adopted.
The agencies of the Union perform a variety of tasks at different locations within the Union.
Each agency has a specific mandate and manages its own budget.
The audits of the Union's agencies and other decentralized bodies are the subject of specific annual reports, which are published separately.
With the exception of the European Police College, the Court issued unqualified opinions on the reliability of the accounts and on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for all agencies. 23
24 SPECIAL REPORTS7 Performance and compliance audit topics are selected and designed based on criteria such as risk related to the economics of specific income and expenditure or their compliance with legislation, volume of expenditure, time of last audit, forthcoming developments in the regulatory or operational environment, and political and public interest.
Since performance and compliance audits are complex and require a lot of detailed work, their complete implementation from the preliminary study to the final reporting usually takes more than a year.
In 2009 the Court adopted a total of 18 special reports.
The special reports are available directly on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) and a notice of their publication appears in the Official Journal.
As in previous years, the reports examined financial management issues in a wide range of areas, ranging from, for example, EU food aid to the needy (6/2009) to treasury management at the Commission (5/2009).
In addition to the 18 special reports, in 2009 the Court analyzed the use of EU funds towards the goal of making the Chernobyl site environmentally safe.
Recommendations on how to improve the management of EU funds channeled through the EBRD were sent to the President of the Commission in a letter (unpublished) from the Court President.
The special reports adopted by the Court in 2009 are listed below, broken down by subject.
A concise report is presented for each thematic area to illustrate the nature of the issues addressed and the conclusions drawn.
7 Special Reports are available on the Court's website or by electronic order form from the EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH • No. 3/2009 "Effectiveness of expenditure on structural measures for waste water treatment during the programming periods 1994-1999 and 2000-2006" • No. 7/2009 "Management of the development and validation phase of the Galileo program" • No. 8 /2009 "Networks of Excellence and Integrated Projects in Community Research Policy: Have the objectives been met?" • No. 13/2009 "Has the delegation of implementation tasks to Executive Agencies proved to be a useful tool?" • No. 17/2009 "From the European Social Fund co-financed vocational training actions for women' 25 Management of the development and validation phase of the Galileo program We audited the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme, which was launched with the aim of creating a European Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) and explained the Causes of the identified undesirable developments.
He concluded that the development and validation phase was poorly managed.
If the reorientation of the EGNOS (Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service for Europe) and Galileo programs undertaken in mid-2007 is to be successful, the Commission needs to significantly improve its program management.
The report contains a number of recommendations designed to facilitate the Commission's task.
Finally, should the EU decide to engage in other major infrastructure programmes, the Commission must ensure that it has appropriate management tools at its disposal.
PRESERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES • No. 6/2009 “European Union food aid for the needy: assessment of objectives, means and methods used” • No. 10/2009 “Information and promotion measures for agricultural products” • No. 11/2009 “ Sustainability of LIFE-Nature projects and their management by the Commission” • No. 14/2009 “Have the market management tools for the milk and milk products market achieved their main objectives?”
26 Have the market control instruments for the milk and milk products market achieved their main objectives?
The Court took stock of the functioning of the milk and milk products market since the introduction of milk quotas in 1984 and examined the Commission's approach to managing the gradual deregulation of the milk sector that began in 2003.
The situation at the end of 2008 forms the basis of the Court's recommendations to the Commission: prevent new overproduction, monitor the price formation process in the food chain, deepen reflection on the future of producers in disadvantaged areas and on the impact of geographical concentration of milk production on the environment, continuing to focus milk production on meeting the needs of the European internal market and on milk products with high added value that can be exported to the world market without budget support.
CITIZENSHIP, FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE • No. 2/2009 "The European Union Public Health Program (2003-2007): an effective route to better health?" The European Union Public Health Program ( 2003-2007): an effective route to better health?
The Court analyzed the European Union's Public Health Program (PHP) for the period 2003-2007.
The purpose of the Court's audit was to determine whether the framework for projects funded by the EU budget has been defined in a way that effectively complements Member States' actions to protect and improve public health.
The report contains detailed conclusions and recommendations on the design, implementation and management of the programme.
Based on its findings, the Court questions the usefulness of certain program components of European public health programs such as the PHP.
The Commission and Member States are asked to reconsider the EU's approach to public health funding.
THE EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER • No. 1/2009 "Banking activities in the Mediterranean under the MEDA program and the previous protocols" • No. 4/2009 "Management of the Commission's involvement of non-state actors in Community development cooperation" • No. 12 /2009 "Effectiveness of the Commission's projects in the field of Justice and Home Affairs for the Western Balkans" • No. 15/2009 "EU assistance delivered through United Nations agencies: decision-making and control" • No. 16/2009 "The management of pre-accession assistance to the Turkey by the European Commission” • No 18/2009 “Effectiveness of EDF Assistance for Regional Economic Integration in East and West Africa” 27 Management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission We examined the management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission.
In particular, the first implementation period of the pre-accession assistance (2002-2006) was characterized by many weaknesses that had already been identified in previous pre-accession programmes.
The objectives set by the Commission in relation to the grants were not specific enough to allow for an assessment of project impact; moreover, the Commission did not have the information needed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the pre-accession assistance.
Nonetheless, the projects audited have delivered the planned outputs and the project results are likely to be sustainable.
The Commission has already made some significant improvements; nevertheless, the Court makes recommendations for further corrective action.
Areas where improvement is most needed include defining strategic goals for the grant, setting more realistic deadlines for goal achievement, and monitoring actual project performance and results against clear goals and appropriate indicators.
28 ADMINISTRATION • No 5/2009 "Treasury management at the Commission" • No 9/2009 "Efficiency and effectiveness of the European Personnel Selection Office's personnel selection activities" Efficiency and effectiveness of the European Personnel Selection Office's personnel selection activities The Court focused on the issue , how the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) managed the sharp increase in the number of competitions due to the enlargement of the European Union and whether it provided timely lists of suitable candidates, containing the required number of successful candidates and geographically balanced.
He concluded that EPSO had successfully managed the increase in the number of competitions due to the enlargement of the European Union.
However, the following weaknesses were identified: the institutions' staffing needs were not reported to EPSO in a timely manner, the staff selection process took too long, the selection procedures produced on average only two thirds of the intended number of successful candidates (who were included in the shortlist) and the management information were not consistently reliable or complete.
OPINIONS Another of the Court's contributions to improving EU financial management is by providing opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the procedure for the adoption of financial legislation8 or may be issued at the request of one of the other institutions of the Union9.
In 2009, the Court adopted an opinion on the proposal to amend the regulation of the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market on the Office's financial rules ('the Financial Regulation').
8 Article 322 TFEU.
9 Article 287(4) TFEU.
29 FOLLOW-UP AND IMPACT The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned – primarily the Commission, Parliament, Council and Member States in the European context.
This information allows them to take action, with or without reference to the Court's audit conclusions.
Although the Court's audit work has its main impact through the reports and opinions it publishes, some impact is made throughout the audit process itself.
29 As examples of the impact of the Court's work, actions taken by the Commission in response to the 2007 budget discharge resolution (which had an impact mainly in 2009) can be cited ): In the area of agricultural expenditure The management and control system for expenditure under the newly created European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) has been aligned with the guarantee system of the EAGF, so that the widely recognized benefits of this system also apply to EAFRD expenditure (see paragraph 5.54 of the 2004 annual report and paragraph 5.57 of the 2007 annual report).
In the field of cohesion The Commission continues to work on a revision of the rules applicable for 2007-2013 in order to simplify the system for reporting irregularities. It has committed itself to report in early 2010 on the actions taken in 2009 and the first impact of all actions of its action plan to strengthen the Commission's supervisory role in the management of structural actions (see paragraph 1.53 and paragraph 6.36(a) of the annual report concerning the financial year 2007).
In the area of External Policies In order to strengthen controls at implementing organization level, the Commission plans to develop a specific tool to better support these organizations in managing EU funds and complying with EU rules (see paragraph 8.33(a) of the 2007 Annual Report ).
In the field of internal policies, including research The Commission has established a multi-annual control strategy for the Sixth Framework Programme. This is based on the detection and correction of errors that could not be detected through desk reviews prior to the execution of the payment.
In order to simplify the procedures of the Seventh Framework Programme, the Commission introduced a Participant Guarantee Fund, which significantly reduced the number of ex-ante financial controls and safeguards to be implemented (see paragraphs 7.43(b), 10.34 and 2.42(a) of the annual report for the financial year 2007).
Source: Report from the Commission to the European Parliament on the follow-up to the 2007 discharge decisions.
The special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure.
Due to the fact that they are published throughout the year, the presentation of the special reports and their discussion in Parliament and Council meetings have usually taken place earlier.
The impact of the audit reports can be increased by promoting them in the relevant media, which attracts more attention and stimulates public discussion.
In general, media coverage of the Court's annual report is quite extensive.
This was also the case in 2009, with media focus primarily on improvements in agricultural spending.
Several special reports were also followed with interest by the press.
For example, the special report on the milk market (No. 14/2009), which assessed the extent to which market governance instruments for milk and milk products have achieved their main objectives, was the subject of intensive discussions in Council and Parliament. It also generated widespread media and professional coverage at a time when the sector is grappling with a variety of issues.
The Court is working to further analyze the impact of its work.
In 2009, it began developing a systematic follow-up process for its special reports, designed to identify and document the auditees' progress in addressing weaknesses identified and recommendations made.
This process will provide the Court - as well as Parliament and other stakeholders - with additional feedback on the impact of its work.
31 THE COURT'S POSITION OPINION NO. 1/2010 - IMPROVING FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN UNION: RISKS AND CHALLENGES In February 2010, the Court issued its first opinion on measures taken at EU budget level to reduce the level of irregular payments and improve the quality of spending (economy, economy and effectiveness) could be improved.
The Court concluded that in order to build on recent progress in reducing the level of irregular payments, legislation in high-risk areas needs to be simplified and more cost-effective control systems put in place.
Such reforms should take place in the context of the ongoing broader review of EU spending rules.
The Court considers that improving the quality of spending is an important priority, which can be achieved by applying the concept of European added value when setting spending priorities and by addressing the specific problems identified by the Court in the selection, design and implementation of spending programs and grant schemes .
TARGETING THE AREAS MOST AFFECTED BY IRREGULAR PAYMENTS Although the level of irregular payments from the EU budget as a whole has decreased, it remains in the thematic areas of 'Cohesion' and 'External Assistance, Development and Enlargement', as well as the Framework Program for Research and Technological Development and high in rural development spending.
Most irregularities stem from beneficiaries reporting ineligible expenditure, over-reporting of eligible expenditure and non-respect of payment terms, for example in the area of public procurement rules.
They are mainly due to the complexity of the regulations and payment terms, as well as deficiencies in the risk management systems at the level of the final beneficiaries.
SIMPLIFY THE RELEVANT REGULATORY FRAMEWORK AND IMPROVE SUPERVISION AND CONTROL The Commission should address the specific systemic weaknesses identified by the Court in the high-risk areas and improve its oversight.
However, with more and more controls and correspondingly decreasing error rates, the point is reached at which the control costs are no longer proportionate to the benefit achieved.
Therefore, simplification should remain a priority.
Rules and legislation that are clear to interpret and easy to apply not only reduce the risk of error, but also the cost of controls. 31
32 IMPROVING THE DESIGN OF EXPENDITURE PROGRAMS In addition to simplification, the Commission should ensure that clear objectives are set when revising existing measures and designing new ones.
More realism, transparency and accountability are often required.
To this end, the Commission could further strengthen the existing procedures for the development of future strategies, in particular the ex ante evaluation and the impact assessment.
CONSIDERING EUROPEAN ADDED VALUE WHEN PRIORITIZING EXPENDITURE The Court proposes clarifying the concept of European added value in an appropriate policy statement or in EU legislation, in order to guide EU political authorities when setting spending priorities.
SEIZING THE OPPORTUNITY OF BUDGET REFORM TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF EXPENDITURE In the Court's view, the Commission should complete the budget review as soon as possible and take the results into account when preparing the financial framework starting in 2014.
Improving the quality of spending should be a priority for the institutions of the European Union and thus a key objective of the new Commission.
33 THE COURT'S WORK PLANNING FOR 201010 Each year the Court sets out its future audit work in a work program which is submitted to the Budgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament and is publicly available on the Court's website.
The work program provides interested parties with information on new and ongoing audits and planned reports.
The Court developed an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012 based on two priority objectives: maximizing the overall impact of audits and improving efficiency by making best use of resources.
These objectives will shape the Court's work program for 2010 and its drive for continuous improvement.
The Court aims to maximize the overall impact of its audits over the period in question by: • selecting and designing audits that focus on risk-related issues and are of most interest to the Court's audience; • continue to provide sound audit conclusions and useful suggestions for improvement, and follow up on whether these suggestions are implemented; • conduct a wider range of audits and produce new types of audit products to complement current annual and special reports; • created a larger number of special reports and improved their timeliness and user-friendliness; • further develops its relations with its key stakeholders, including the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as with the media and the general public. The Court aims to improve efficiency over the period in question by making the best use of its resources.
These include • better governance; • an effective and dynamic human resources policy; • the rationalization of examination tasks; • the improvement of IT tools; • the development of professional competence; • developing relationships with the auditees.
33 10 A more complete and detailed overview of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's work program 2010, available on its website (www.eca.europa.eu).
34 For the 2010 work program the Court has selected certain audit priorities, including: • the multiannual nature of much of the Community's expenditure, including flat-rate corrections and recoveries; • Innovation and the internal market; • human capital; • sustainable energy; • Commission's strategy to simplify the legal framework for businesses and citizens.
CELEBRATION OF THE FOUNDATION STONE FOR A NEW BUILDING On July 1, 2009, the foundation stone was laid in Luxembourg for a new building, the second extension of the European Court of Auditors.
Vítor Caldeira, President of the European Court of Auditors, Claude Wiseler, Luxembourg Minister for Building, Patrick Gillen, President of the "Fonds d'urbanisation et d'aménagement du Kirchberg", and Eduardo Ruiz García, Secretary General of the Court, gave the signal with the symbolic groundbreaking ceremony the start of construction work.
This extension of the European Court of Auditors' complex, which already consists of two buildings, will accommodate the staff recruited as a result of successive enlargements of the Union.
In 2009-2012 the Court will endeavor to broaden its range of audit-related report types.
To this end, he will coordinate with his key external stakeholders to ensure he gains a clear understanding of their diverse needs and how best to meet their expectations in the performance of his mandate under the Treaty.
A significant proportion of the resources available to the Court are devoted to auditing the accounts with a view to drawing up a Statement of Assurance (the so-called "DAS").
This requires the examination and verification of the accounts and transactions of the general budget of the EU for each financial year.
Separate Statements of Assurance are prepared for the European Development Funds and each of the 40 European agencies and bodies.
The audit work extends from June of year n to June of year n+1 in order to allow the annual reports to be published in November of year n+1 in accordance with the Financial Regulation.
Thus, in 2010, the Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2009 will be prepared and published and at the same time the Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2010 will start11.
The aim of the Court's work is to provide clear conclusions on the state of accounting and financial management in each area of the general budget and to make relevant and cost-effective recommendations where improvements can be made.
The Court's annual report on the general budget for the financial year 2009 will continue to follow the structure introduced in 2007, reflecting the reorganization of the budget12.
Findings are presented within the framework of chapters related to related groups of policy areas (themes). This structure largely, but not entirely, corresponds to the headings of the new financial framework.
Furthermore, the Court will be particularly concerned to present its findings and conclusions in an even clearer and more coherent manner, in order to make them easier to understand and read and to facilitate comparison within and between thematic groups and between financial years.
35 11 More information on the DAS approach is available on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu.
12 We set up a DAS think tank to reflect on various aspects of the DAS audit approach. In this context, consideration is also being given to redesigning the areas of specific assessments.
36 36 MEASURING AND IMPROVING PERFORMANCE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2008 the Court decided to introduce a system of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for its audit and non-audit activities to measure performance in meeting the Court's strategic objectives and those set out in the annual work programmes to measure goals.
ZLI serve to strengthen internal and external accountability and to increase work efficiency and quality. WHY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS? • To inform management on how successful the Court as an institution is in delivering on what it has set out to do; • to support the decision-making process by drawing the institution's attention to efficiency issues and encouraging improvements; • to provide information to the audience on relevant aspects related to the Court's performance.
The ZLI primarily relate to the achievement of the Court's strategic objectives, as they cover audit quality, output, impact and the efficient use of the Court's resources.
They reflect the Court's performance as a 'company' and are an integral part of the Court's management system.
THE COURT'S KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 37 ALI 1 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the main users of the Court's reports ALI 2 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the auditee ALI 3 Rating of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a panel of external experts ALI 4 Percentage of audit recommendations that are a) accepted by the audited entity b) implemented by the audited entity within a specified number of years ALI 5 Number of reports accepted versus number of reports planned ALI 6 Number of Reports adopted on time ALI 7 Percentage of audit statements issued on time ALI 8 External assessment of the Court's financial management: a) Opinion of the independent auditor b) Decision of the discharge authority ALI 9 Level of satisfaction of the Court's staff ALI 10 Average number of training days per person The quantity and quality of audit work can also be improved by considering the impact of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management.
Four key performance indicators (1 to 4) are used to measure the impact of the Court's work.
They have been included in the Court's 2010 annual work programme.
38 Number of reports adopted versus number of reports planned In 2009 the Court adopted 91 % of the number of reports planned.
The annual report and all special annual reports were adopted as planned.
Of the 24 special reports planned, only 18 were accepted.
As of December 31, 2009, the remaining six special reports were still in the final drafting phase.
Number of reports adopted on time In 2009, the Court adopted 67% of its reports within the given timeframe.
The annual report and all special annual reports were approved on time.
Due to delays in the special reports, the Court missed the target for the ZLI 6. Further efforts are needed to improve the respect of the deadlines for the adoption of the special reports.
Measuring the number of key audit reports produced on time The Court communicates its preliminary audit results to the auditee in an audit report.
It aims to increase the proportion of audit communications delivered on time by 10% annually, with the long-term goal of producing 80% of audit communications within the specified timeframe (two months after the final audit visit).
In 2009, the number of audit reports prepared on time increased by 16% compared to 2008.
External assessment of the Court's financial management: a) Opinion of the independent auditor, b) Decision of the discharge authority The Court's independent auditor gave an unqualified opinion on the accounts and the use of resources and the European Parliament granted discharge following a positive recommendation from the Council.
Level of satisfaction of the Court's staff In an internal staff satisfaction survey carried out in 2009, 86 % of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their job (target: 80 %), while the overall level of staff satisfaction was 2.8 on a scale of 4 (target: 2.5).
Average number of training days for auditors (excluding language courses) In line with guidelines published by the IFAC (International Federation of Accountants), the Court aims to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training.
In 2009, the average was four days.
39 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court actively and fully pursued its international cooperation through the following fora: • the Contact Committee, composed of the Presidents of the EU Member States' SAIs and the ECA, • the Network of Country SAIs , which have applied for EU membership, • in the European Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI) and • in the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI).
The Court contributed to the annual meetings of these organizations and to the improvement of international auditing standards and practices, and was also actively involved in the committees and working groups set up by these organisations.
In particular, he took on the following tasks: • Chairing the working groups on “Common Auditing Standards” and “VAT” set up by the Contact Committee; • Participation in the Working Groups “Reports of National SAIs” and “Structural Funds” set up by the Contact Committee; • Participation in the EUROSAI Environment Working Group and IT Working Group, in the EUROSAI Group preparing a Guide on Good Practices for Quality Achievement, in the EUROSAI Training Committee and in the EUROSAI Task Force on Auditing Disaster Aid Funds; • Chair the INTOSAI Working Group on Accountability and Audit of Disaster Relief; • Participation in the INTOSAI subcommittees on guidelines for financial audit, legal compliance and performance auditing, and in the task force on the global financial crisis. 39
40 40 STAFF AND SUPPORT SERVICES The Court's most important asset is its people.
As at 31 December 2009, the Court had 880 staff (officials and temporary agents but excluding members, contract agents, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of the staff, 525 (including 115 staff in Members' private offices) were involved in audit-related tasks; 163 were employed as translators, 171 as administrative support staff and 21 in the services of the President.
The Court's staff come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds and the quality of their work and commitment is reflected in the Court's output.
BREAKDOWN OF THE COURT'S POSTS AT 31 DECEMBER (occupied and vacant posts) Translation Administrative support The Court is committed to achieving its strategic objective of improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
Therefore, in 2009 he continued to explore and exploit the potential for efficiency gains in all his activities by simplifying procedures and streamlining services.
In particular, resources made available by support services through efficiency gains have been diverted from these services as much as possible and made available for audit-related tasks.
This process is ongoing and its impact will be even more apparent in 2010.
For human resources, the Court has defined the evaluation of the degree of satisfaction of the Court's staff as a key performance indicator (ZLI 9) (see page 37).
A satisfaction survey was carried out to provide information on this topic and to support the decision-making process in this area.
The Court is implementing measures to ensure that opportunities to achieve better results in the years to come are fully exploited.
2008 173 2009 Audit-related tasks 501 525 163 163 171 20 21 Services of the President Total 857 880
PROPORTION OF MEN AND WOMEN The proportion of men and women was almost equal.
12.2001 12.2009 The charts below show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as of December 31, 2009.
Like the other European institutions, the Court follows an equal opportunities policy in human resources management and recruitment and recognizes the need to promote equal treatment between men and women more actively in senior management recruitment.
17 of the 64 directors and heads of department/unit (26.5%) are women; this means a slight increase in the proportion of women since 2008 (24%).
However, most of them work in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative services.
The increase in the number of women in the AD function group reflects the results of the recent wave of recruitment.
43% of staff in grades AD5 to AD8 are female.
Directors and Heads of Unit 2008 2009 41 54% 46% 51% 49% 76% 24% 73.5% 26.5%
42 Auditors - Administrators (function group AD) 2008 2009 Assistants - Secretaries (function group AST) 2008 2009 The graph below showing the age profile of the Court's 862 staff in active employment at 31 December 2009 shows that the Court is a "young" body (61% of employees are not older than 44 years).
Among the 99 Court staff aged 55 or over are 24 of the 64 directors and heads of department/unit; this means that there will be extensive new appointments in the upper management levels in the next five to ten years.
170 150 131 103 63 34 2 67% 33% 63% 37% 27% 73% 33% 67% AGE PROFILE 161 47 1 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55- 59 60-64 65-
RECRUITMENTS The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
Open competitions for posts at the Court are organized by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Court also offers internships for a limited number of university graduates for periods of between three and five months.
In 2009 the Court recruited 112 staff: 69 officials, 14 temporary agents and 29 contract agents.
Recruitment is subject to the availability and sufficient availability of reserve lists of EPSO competitions.
In 2009 the Court managed to recruit an adequate number of new staff.
The 73 vacancies as of December 31, 2009 were reduced by 33% to 49 by January 26, 2010. The number of vacancies will continue to fall sharply in the coming months as more audit staff will come into service in the wake of the recent wave of recruitment.
As of December 31, 2008, 68 positions were vacant.
The reserve list for recruitment on the basis of EPSO competition AD/126/08 was published in August and the first successful candidates entered the Court's service in early November, just three months later.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The auditor's profession requires continuous development.
In addition, due to the specific nature of the Court's audit environment, the auditors need a good knowledge of foreign languages.
In 2009, the Court's staff completed an average of nine days of professional development.
Language courses accounted for 64% of the total number of training days in 2009 (compared to 48% in 2008).
Excluding the language courses, the examiners completed four days of professional training in 2009 (see ZLI 10 on page 38).
This number is expected to increase in 2010 as new staff are required to complete a mandatory training programme.
On the basis of the long-term strategic objective “evolution and growth” and the master plan for training for the years 2008-2011, as well as the training pathways adopted in 2009, the “Professional Training” Unit has made improvements in the content of the training measures and in line with the priorities decided by the Court new training courses developed.
In addition, cooperation with the other institutions and with interinstitutional bodies such as the European School of Administration continued successfully.
Box 5 provides a portrait of the staff of an audit unit within the Court to give the reader an idea of the work carried out and the people involved. 43
40 BOX 5 – THE TEAM RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AUDIT JUSTICE AND HOME AFFAIRS IN THE WESTERN BALKANS The Western Balkans region has historically been marked by violence.
The interest of the European Union in this region is to promote security and long-term stability.
The rule of law, border security and the fight against corruption are basic requirements for EU accession and pose a major challenge in the Western Balkans.
The European Commission is the main donor of funds in the region.
The Court's 2009 report on the effectiveness of the Commission's Justice and Home Affairs projects for the Western Balkans (Special Report No 12/2009) provided an insight into the situation in this particularly important area.
The audit covered both investment projects and institution-building projects in the four areas of asylum, integrated border management, the judiciary and the police.
33 completed projects were inspected on the spot, including an asylum centre, a prison in Albania and a human rights and war crimes court in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
A number of EU-funded border crossing points in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia were also visited to assess whether the EU's actions were leading to improvements.
The team responsible for conducting the audit worked closely with the rapporteur, Maarten B. Engwarta.
The Heads of Unit responsible for supervising the audit were Raija Peltonen and Ossi Louko; Jussi Bright was responsible for team management.
The examiners involved were Enrico Grassi and Miroslav Matej, with Horst Fischer and Jan Pieter Lingen from Maarten B. Engwarta's cabinet also playing an important role.
From left to right: Raija PELTONEN, Head of Unit; Jan Pieter LINGEN, Chief of Cabinet; Horst FISCHER, cabinet attaché; Jussi BRIGHT, Chief Financial Audit Advisor (Team Leader); Maarten B. ENGWIRDA, Member of the Court; Ossi LOUKO, Head of Unit; Enrico GRASSI, Chief Financial Officer; Miroslav MATEJ, Financial Audit Council i. E
TRANSLATION Translation is an important audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfill its mandate and achieve its communication goals.
In 2009, the total translation volume increased by 5.2% compared to 2008.
The proportion of translation services rendered on time was over 95%.
Linguistic support for auditors in connection with audit visits and when drafting reports has been increased.
The Directorate for Translation also supported INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the Court's audit work.
A new IT application (Artemis) was launched in January 2010 to manage translation work more efficiently.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology provides auditors with essential tools and services.
The main developments in 2009 were: • to simplify processes and continue the move towards a paperless office by using automated permits (visas) and e-forms, introducing e-signatures and starting work on setting up an archive database; • Improving the security of the Court's IT infrastructure by establishing a data recovery center and deploying an evolved version of the Lotus Notes platform, the backbone of the Court's messaging and audit documentation/archiving systems; • Adoption of a long-term IT plan for the period 2010-2012 to align information technology with the Court's key audit policy objectives and continue to strive for quality service delivery. 45
46 ADMINISTRATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE The Finance and Support Services Directorate is responsible for administrative services and infrastructure.
This includes internal controls and accounting as well as administrative and logistic services.
In 2009, the Directorate focused on reorganizing its services to improve efficiency and effectiveness and free up staff to be redeployed to the audit services.
This reorganization led to a reduction in the number of units belonging to the Directorate (from five to three) and the conversion of several posts to audit services.
An important activity of the directorate concerned the construction of a new courtyard building (the "K3 building").
In 2009, following a call for tenders, a project manager was appointed.
Construction work will start in March 2010 and is expected to be completed in 2013.
The time and cost framework specified for the project will continue to be met.
AUDIT VISITS The Court's audit work requires auditors to travel to Member States and other recipient countries of EU funds in order to obtain appropriate audit evidence.
The visits are usually to central and local authorities involved in approving, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as to the respective final recipients.
Audit teams typically consist of two to three examiners and audit trips can take up to two weeks, depending on the nature of the audit and the distance.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in liaison with the SAIs of the visited Member State, which provide useful logistical and practical support.
The graph below gives an overview of the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in the EU Member States in 2009 (300).
In addition, 36 audit visits took place outside the Union in 2009.
47 50 40 30 20 10 0 AUDIT VISITS TO MEMBER STATES (TOTAL: 300) 48 34 30 23 17 17 16 15 15 14 88 77 666 4 333 2222 11 France Germany Spain Italy Greece United Kingdom Poland Portugal Belgium Netherlands Denmark Hungary Austria Sweden Czech Republic Slovakia Lithuania Ireland Slovenia Latvia Romania Cyprus Finland Bulgaria Luxembourg Malta Estonia
In 2009, the implementation rate of the total available budget was more than 92%.
For Title 1 (Members and staff of the institution) this rate is 88%, being lowest in Chapter 14 (Other staff and external services) (82%); This is primarily due to the fact that positions were not filled or understaffed, and to the savings achieved.
For Title 2 (Buildings, Furniture, Equipment and Miscellaneous Material Expense), the average completion rate is close to 100%.
The amount of the payments from Chapter 20 (Buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the second extension of the farm (K3 building).
The first tranche of funding for this project, amounting to 55 million euros, was approved for the 2009 budget; the corresponding amount was committed and partially paid out in 2009.
The remainder of the appropriations for the K3 building have been carried over to 2010 and are intended to cover costs stemming from contractor contracts signed by the project manager on behalf of the Court.
The funds will be used as indicated by the Court in its application submitted to the European Parliament and the Council at the end of 2008.
FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services Final appropriations 11 718 91 986 4 597 3 290 Commitments 11 318 79 903 3 800 Payments (1 000 euro) 11 205 79 744 3 763 2 148 1 678 98 538 7 313 3 604 718 275 655 1 055 13 620 112 158 Use of appropriations in % (commitments/ appropriations allocated) 96.59 86.86 82.66 86.66 85.96 87.66 99, 97 99.84 94.12 91.75 99.09 97.22 99.74 92.39
2010 BUDGET The Court's 2010 budget represents around 0.1% of the total EU budget, or 1.87% of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies.
The table below shows the breakdown of appropriations by budget line.
Around 76% of the total budget in 2010 is allocated to human resources.
The appropriations in the 2010 budget decreased by 21% compared to 2009, mainly due to less appropriations for the new courtyard building (K3).
The construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of 79 million euros, to be financed over four consecutive years: 55 million euros in 2009, 11 million euros in 2010, 7 million euros in 2011 and 6 million euros per year 2012
49 BUDGET 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure for Members and staff of the institution 210 - Informatics and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furnishings and associated costs 23 - Current administrative expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 2010 4 590 3 450 2 861 877 404 868 2 389 29 421 2009 4 497 3 290 2 684 981 439 868 1 9213 1 9213 1 9213 94 246 11 718 92 086 (1,000 euros) 12 061 88 712 3 212 2 286 20 - Building Title 1 total 118 518 6 365 114 2891 6 260 519 1 147 425 876 1 813 Title 2 total 73 369 Court of Auditors total 147 932 187 644 22 250 132 769
50 INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE The Court's Internal Audit Service aims to help the Court achieve its objectives through a systematic, methodical assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative processes.
In addition, the Internal Audit Service makes proposals to increase the Court's efficiency.
This requires a constant assessment of the internal control systems within the Court to assess their effectiveness.
In 2009, the Court's internal audit service focused its work mainly on financial audits (reviews of financial statements), an ex-ante control review, payroll and custodial accounts audits, a follow-up of contracts and procedures of the public procurement and an analysis of the promotion process.
Most of the audit recommendations made by the Internal Auditor in 2009 were accepted by the auditees and incorporated into corrective action plans.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee oversees the work of the internal auditor and ensures his independence.
It also examines and approves the work program and reports of the internal auditor and assigns specific audit tasks to the auditor when the need arises.
In 2009, the Internal Audit department was audited and certified by an independent auditor, Deloitte SA.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE COURT The independent auditor's report on the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2008 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 23 October 2009 (OJ
C 254 of 23.10.2009). In its opinion, the Court's independent auditor (PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL) came to the following conclusions: On the financial statements: "In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2008, and of the results of operations and of cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 with implementing provisions for the above Council Regulation and the accounting regulations of the European Court of Auditors." Regarding the use of resources and the control procedures: "Based on our work steps described in this report, we have not come across any facts from which we would have to conclude that in all material matters and under consideration of the exact Assessment criteria can be: a) the funds allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and b) the control procedures put in place do not provide the necessary guarantee that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the rules and regulations in force.” 51
52 52 DECLARATION OF THE AUTHORIZING OFFICER BY DELEGATION The undersigned, Secretary General of the European Court of Auditors, in his capacity as Authorizing Officer by Delegation, hereby declare: • that the information provided to the Court for the preparation of this report is correct and accurate13, and • confirms with reasonable assurance that that - the funds made available for the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that - the control procedures put in place offer the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions14 .
This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as e.g. B. the results of the ex-post controls, the reports of the internal auditor and the reports of the independent auditor for previous financial years.
The undersigned confirms that he is not aware of any unreported circumstance likely to harm the interests of the institution.
Luxembourg, February 12th, 2010 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary General 13 "True and accurate" in this context means that a reliable, complete and correct picture of the condition of the service is given.
14 The term "underlying transactions" in this context refers to the transactions for which the undersigned is the Authorizing Officer by delegation.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2009 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2010 – 52 pp. – 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518
Where can I get EU publications? Paid publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • via the bookstore, stating the title, publisher and/or ISBN number; • directly through one of our points of sale.
Contact details can be obtained from the internet address http://bookshop.europa.eu or by faxing a request to +352 2929-42758.
Free publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the representations and delegations of the European Commission.
Contact details can be obtained from the internet address http://ec.europa.eu or by faxing a request to +352 2929-42758. www.eca.europa.eu
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 QJ-AA-10-001-DE-C
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2010
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS MISSION MISSION VALUES The Court of Auditors is committed to the following values: The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing the EU finances under the Treaty.
As the EU's external auditor, it helps improve EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens by promoting accountability and transparency.
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognized for its professionalism and the quality and impact of its work, offering valuable support to its constituency with a view to improving EU financial management.
INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRITY AND IMPARTIALITY PROFESSIONALITY ADDED VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality for the body, its members and staff Produce relevant, timely reports of high quality, based on sound findings and evidence, reflecting the concerns of its constituencies and important as well as leading statements include recognizing the worth of the individual, helping to develop special skills and rewarding performance promoting team spirit through effective communication providing its audience with appropriate examination results, while refusing any form of influence from external direction or pressure maintaining a high and exemplary standard degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work Actively contributing to the further development of public auditing at EU level and worldwide Increasing the efficiency of all aspects of his work Contribute to effectively improving the management of the EU budget and contribute to increasing accountability for the management of EU funds
3 CONTENTS Pages 4-5 7 9-25 9-22 23-25 26-45 26-27 28-33 34-39 40-42 43-45 FOREWORD FROM THE PRESIDENT 2010 AT A GLANCE OUR ACTIVITIES Audit reports and opinions Cooperation with other SAIs OUR MANAGEMENT Implementation of the strategy for 2009-2012 Metrics of the Court's performance in 2010 Audit support Financial information Audit and accountability
4 FOREWORD BY THE PRESIDENT Welcome to the fourth edition of the European Court of Auditors' Annual Activity Report. This year we have taken the opportunity to reorganize the content into two main sections, “Our Operations” and “Our Management”, and for the first time present an overview of all key performance indicators.
In 2010, the Court of Auditors had two important opportunities to contribute to the debate on the reform of EU financial management.
At the beginning of the year, the Court delivered an opinion to the new Commission on the main risks and challenges in improving EU financial management, and towards the end of the year an opinion on the Commission's proposals to amend the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the EU.
With a view to 2011, the court will continue to implement its values and continue to expand on the level of performance and results achieved.
We will again provide high-quality, independent and objective reports and opinions that help improve EU financial management and promote accountability and transparency. In particular, the Court will continue to follow closely developments in the area of EU economic governance and will address the new legislative proposals affecting EU financial management after 2013.
We plan to publish 45 annual reports, ie the annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and on the European Development Funds, as well as the specific annual reports on the agencies, bodies and other bodies.
Special reports provide an important opportunity to add value as they focus on areas of increased risk and on issues of particular relevance to the audience. In particular, the Court intends to report on the quality of EU spending in a wide range of areas, ranging from financial instruments and the SME Guarantee Facility to EU-funded projects in eGovernment and the Single Payment Scheme in agriculture.
As we continue to implement our strategy for 2009-2012, the Court hopes to reap the full benefits of its recent reforms, including streamlined decision-making procedures. The Court will continue its efforts to recruit suitable staff, to keep vacancies to a minimum and to encourage the professional development of its staff.
We would not have achieved what we have achieved in 2010 without the commitment and professionalism of all the Court's staff.
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5 7 2010 AT A GLANCE OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2009 o 40 specific annual reports on the different EU agencies, bodies and bodies for the financial year 2009 o 14 special reports , mainly on performance audits o Opinion on improving EU financial management o Five other opinions on new or amended EU legal acts, including the proposal to amend the Financial Regulation o Active involvement in issues relating to international audit practice in the field of public audit and the professional community, among others the elaboration of the new standards for supreme audit institutions (ISSAI) o pilot project with coordinated audits on the regularity of agricultural expenditures involving the supreme audit institutions of the Netherlands and the Czech Republic OUR MANAGEMENT o Presentation of an overview of all KPIs showing that key stakeholders are fairly satisfied with the quality of the Court's work o Revision of the Court's Rules of Procedure introducing Chambers to streamline decision-making processes o Recruitment of 97 new staff, resulting in the proportion of vacant posts fell below 5% for the first time o Continued redeployment of staff to audit services as a result of efficiency gains in support services
9 OUR ACTIVITIES AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: o Annual Reports - containing the results of its financial and compliance audits on specific financial years (this includes the separately published specific annual reports on the agencies, bodies and others bodies of the European Union); o Special Reports – to be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits, mainly performance audits assessing economy, efficiency and effectiveness in selected EU revenue and expenditure areas; o Opinions on draft legal acts with financial implications.
Number of reports and opinions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports (EU agencies, bodies and other bodies) 23 29 29 37 40 Special reports 11 9 12 18 14 Opinions 8 9 5 1 6 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
1 OJ C 303 of 9.11.2010. The key messages of the annual report were as follows: • The annual accounts of the European Union fairly present the financial position and the results of operations and cash flows in all material respects Expenditure”), payments from the budget continue to be affected by a material level of error. • The Court estimates that the most likely error rate for Cohesion policy spending was significantly lower than in previous years and for the budget as a whole the Court's estimated error rate has been decreasing in recent years. • The Commission has improved its information on recoveries of unduly paid amounts and other corrections.
However, this information is not yet completely reliable. The information provided by the Commission on corrective action does not allow a meaningful comparison with the error rate estimated by the Court. In the report, the Court makes recommendations to show how financial management could be improved by strengthening administrative systems and simplifying rules and regulations.
The annual report on the European Development Funds for 2009 The Court published its annual report on the European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2009 on 9 November 2010 together with the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2009.
The 2009 specific annual reports on the EU agencies, institutions and other bodies In December 2010, the Court published 40 specific annual reports on the EU agencies, institutions and other bodies for the financial year 20092.
C 342 of 16.12.2010. The Court concluded that the supervisory and control systems are partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments. In the report, the Court makes recommendations for improving some aspects of the financial management of the EDFs, including the cost-effectiveness of expenditure controls, controls over the annual audit of completed projects, and controls over the use and monitoring of budget support.
12 Special reports adopted in 2010 In selecting and designing its performance and compliance audit tasks, the Court is always mindful of achieving maximum impact while making the best use of the resources dedicated to those tasks.
In selecting the topics, the Court takes into account the following factors: • the risks to profitability or compliance with legal standards in the area of revenue or expenditure concerned; • the amount of income or expenses; • the time elapsed since any previous check; • forthcoming developments within the relevant legal or operational framework; • the political and public interest.
In order to obtain the required audit evidence, the selected performance and compliance audits must be carefully planned and performed. The Court also gives the audited entities the opportunity to comment on its findings and formulate replies before the report is published.
As a result, these exams typically take more than a year to complete.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN IMPROVING TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE ON TRANS-EUROPEAN RAIL AXES: HAVE EU RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS BEEN EFFECTIVE?
Special Report No 8 2010 ISSN XXXX-XXXX
13 THE MAIN STEPS OF A SELECTED PERFORMANCE OR COMPLIANCE AUDIT Preliminary study to determine the feasibility of the audit with further details.
Detailed planning with definition of goals and scope as well as the approach and methods to be used.
Analysis of the findings and confirmation of the facts by the audited entity.
Preparation of the draft of the special report.
Contradictory procedure with the audited EU institution.
3 Figures reflect recent changes to Multiannual Financial Framework 2007-2013 and current prices (source: European Commission).
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of the "Design Studies" and "Development of New Infrastructures" support measures in the Sixth Research Framework Program (Special Report No 2/2010) - "Design Studies" aim to examine feasibility aspects in potential future research organisations and the measure "Development of new infrastructure" aims to support the development of new infrastructure or the improvement of existing ones.
During the audit, the Court examined whether the two actions contributed effectively to the achievement of the objectives of the infrastructures activity of the sixth research framework program for 2002-2006. • Impact assessments in the EU institutions: do they help in decision-making?
(Special Report No 3/2010) – Impact assessments are one of the cornerstones of better regulation policy to improve and simplify EU legislative proposals. The audit analyzed whether the Commission's impact assessments have effectively supported decision-making in the EU institutions. The observations of this report are also relevant for other areas of the budget.
• Do the design and management of the mobility actions of the Leonardo da Vinci program allow for effective results?
(Special Report No. 4/2010) - The mobility projects of the Leonardo da Vinci program enable organizations active in the field of vocational education and training to arrange study visits in another European country for participants. The measures are part of the integrated program for lifelong learning. The audit examined whether the measures are likely to achieve their objectives through an assessment of the design and management by the Commission and the national agencies. • Improving transport performance on the trans-European rail axes: have EU investments in rail infrastructure been effective?
(Special Report No. 8/2010) (see box 'A close-up of a performance audit'). • Are the EU expenditures for structural measures in the area of water supply for households used optimally?
(Special Report No. 9/2010) – In the programming period 2000-2006, more than 4 billion euros were made available from the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund to support projects in the field of water supply infrastructure for households. We examined whether these funds were used effectively to address a range of needs, such as increasing water availability, extending geographic coverage, improving the efficiency of water supply systems and increasing the quality of service. 15
16 PERFORMANCE AUDIT CLOSE-UP IMPROVING TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE ON THE TRANS-EUROPEAN RAILWAY AXES: HAS EU INVESTMENT IN RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE EFFECTIVE? SPECIAL REPORT NO. 8/2010 The audit focused on EU co-funding of railway infrastructure, examining whether it was making an effective contribution to improving the performance of the trans-European axes.
With the revision of the TEN-T guidelines due in 2011, the Court's report comes at a particularly opportune time. The Court recommended that the Commission: • work with the Member States and the railway authorities to identify on which trans-European corridors there are significant needs and, where necessary, improve knowledge and analytical bases; • to put more emphasis on reducing the practical constraints in cross-border rail traffic; • to encourage and facilitate cooperation between Member States' institutions responsible for the rail sector, so that developments can be planned together and common solutions to practical problems can be found.
17 “The audit presented a number of challenges for the team,” reports Gareth Roberts, lead audit team. “We had to get to grips with the realities of European rail transport very quickly and we saw some successful examples of fantastic modern railways, but also some sections of the network that seemed to come from another age.
We wanted to explore how the European rail transport system is gradually evolving from a patchwork quilt to a network.
The on-site work involved up to 10 examiners as we had to cover many different languages.” “I really enjoyed working on this exam.
Since then I've become something of a railroad fan!” says Andrej Minarovič, the inspector responsible for the work in Germany and Austria.
At the end of the stage, Fernando Pascual Gil earned the nickname "Mole" within the team for having spent considerable time in railway tunnels in the Alps and Pyrenees. The audit team visited eight Member States and examined the impact on trans-European rail transport of 21 rail projects co-financed by the European Union under the trans-European transport networks and cohesion policy.
To do this, the team members drove freight trains across and through the Alps and visited large tunnel construction sites.
These visits were a valuable addition to the knowledge that the auditors had gained from reviewing reports, interviewing railway workers and routine financial analysis.
18 Preserving and managing natural resources With a budget of €413 billion for 2007-2013, the EU has wide powers and political responsibilities in the areas of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment. Three quarters of the funds are spent on agricultural markets and direct payments to farmers. These payments are financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the 'first pillar' of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
Rural development support, funded by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second 'pillar' of the CAP, accounts for more than a fifth of spending.
Agriculture and rural development are managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Implementing the Leader approach to rural development (Special Report 5/2010) - Leader is a bottom-up approach to rural development based on local partnerships rural area. The audit examined whether the implementation of the Leader approach resulted in additional benefits over the traditional top-down approach, while minimizing the risks to sound financial management. • Has the sugar market reform achieved its most important goals?
(Special Report No. 6/2010) - The EU carried out a major reform of its sugar sector in 2006, with the aim of ensuring the competitiveness of the EU sugar industry, stabilizing markets and ensuring supplies, and adequate income for the farming community to secure livelihood.
This has resulted in a transition to greater regional participation and more flexible decision-making. In the course of the audit, the effectiveness of the special measures after the reform was examined. The EU as a global partner In addition to enlargement, the EU has three main objectives in the area of external relations: achieving stability, security and prosperity in its neighborhood ("The EU and its neighborhood policy"); active support for sustainable development at international level ("The EU as a partner for sustainable development"); Promoting global political "governance" and ensuring strategic and civil security ("The EU as a global player").
Most of the expenditure is managed by the Commission directly through its central services or its delegations.
Some funding measures are also jointly managed with international organisations. • Commission management of the system of veterinary controls on meat imports after the 2004 reform of the hygiene legislation (Special Report No. 14/2010) - Veterinary controls at imports are an essential part of EU food safety policy and help to reduce the risk of diseases and Health crises erupt, with potentially high costs to the EU budget. The audit examined how the Commission monitors the EU system of veterinary checks at border inspection posts, introduced as part of the reform of food hygiene legislation that came into force in 2006.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • The Commission's management of GBS in ACP, Latin American and Asian countries (Special Report No. 11/2010) - GBS is used by many donors, including the European Commission, generally regarded as the most effective way of delivering development aid.
The audit examined whether the Commission was effectively managing its budget support programs in the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, Latin America and Asia. 19
20 • EU development assistance for basic education in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia (Special Report No. 12/2010) – Through the Education for All initiative and the Millennium Development Goals, the EU and the international donor community have committed to ensuring primary education for all children, committed to eliminating gender inequalities and improving the quality of education. The audit examined whether EU development assistance contributed to the achievement of these goals in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia and whether the Commission managed its interventions satisfactorily.
Revenue The budget of the European Union is mainly financed from own resources and other revenue. Traditional own resources - mainly customs duties - account for around 12% and the VAT resource for another 12% of total revenue. The bulk of the EU's own resources (70%) come from GNI-derived own resources, which as residual revenue ensure that the budget is always in balance. • Has the new European Neighborhood and Partnership Instrument in the South Caucasus (Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia) been successfully launched and is it delivering results?
(Special Report No. 13/2010) - The European Neighborhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) provides a framework for planning and delivering assistance to partner countries and territories.
Since 2007, more than 311 million euros have been made available for three countries in the southern Caucasus. The audit examined whether the ENPI was successfully launched there and whether it is achieving results.
In 2010, the Court adopted a special report on • Simplified customs procedures (1/2010) - Simplified customs procedures allow authorized economic operators to benefit from accelerated customs clearance and a simplified system for paying customs duties, which are part of the EU's revenue.
The audit assessed the effectiveness of the legal framework and the control approach of the Commission and the Member States. Opinions issued in 2010 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management through its opinions on proposals for new or amended legislation with a financial impact.
21 22 THE COURT'S PERSPECTIVE ON THE REVIEW OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATION Opinion 6/2010 concerns an important Commission proposal for a revision of the Financial Regulation, which governs how the EU budget is collected, spent and accounted for.
Furthermore, based on what we said in Opinion 1/2010 (see above), the Court points out that in order to improve the quality of EU spending in certain spending areas of the EU budget, simpler and better legislation and other measures to support Promotion and demand for economic behavior on the part of managers at the Commission, in the other institutions and in the Member States.
Ongoing contacts are maintained by liaison officers appointed by each SAI.
The pilot project will be completed in 2011. 24 Network of SAIs of the Candidate and Potential Candidate Countries The Court actively participated in meetings of the Network of SAIs of the Candidate and Potential Candidate Countries (Turkey, Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia)4 , which took place in parallel with the meetings of the Contact Committee.
4 Status February 2011. Other forms of cooperation The Court continued its active involvement and contribution to the improvement of international auditing standards and practices through its membership in European and international organizations of public audit bodies, namely INTOSAI5 and its European regional group EUROSAI.
A delegation of the court took on XX. INCOSAI Congress, held in South Africa from November 22-27, 2010.
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of INTOSAI, it has actively participated in the subcommittees on the different audit types. In addition, the Court provided input to the Subcommittee on Promoting Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews and supported the increased capacity-building activities of INTOSAI members.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on Accountability and Audit of Disaster Relief.
A key objective of this working group is to develop guidance, identify and disseminate good practice in the area of accountability for disaster relief, focusing on stakeholder (multilateral, aid, government, private auditor) activities. The working group's interim report was presented to the INTOSAI Congress in November 2010.
In 2010, the Court also participated in the INTOSAI Task Force on the Global Financial Crisis. Within the framework of EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the environmental working group and in the IT working group and participates in the EUROSAI training committee.
The Court also participated in the working group set up at the VII EUROSAI Congress in 2008 to develop a guide on best practices for achieving quality within an SAI. In addition, the Court is one of the auditors of EUROSAI. 25
26 OUR MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY FOR 20092012 In recent years, following a self-assessment and peer review process (2008) on the framework of its audit management, the Court has embarked on an internal reform process.
A strategy for the period 2009-20126 was then developed to address the identified weaknesses. The overall objectives for the period are to: o Maximize the overall impact of the audits; o Improving efficiency through the best possible use of resources.
Many of the priority actions foreseen in the strategy have already been completed. The other measures will be implemented in 2011 and 2012. The main achievements in 2010 were: o meeting the target of 12 to 15 performance audit reports per year; o New product development - a risks and challenges document for the new Commission (Opinion 1/2010) and the establishment of a new system for reporting on the follow-up of the Court's recommendations from 2012; o the revision of the Court's Rules of Procedure to streamline decision-making processes through the introduction of Chambers and to strengthen the governance structure; o creating an overview of all performance indicators; o the further development of the approach for the annual audit of the implementation of the EU budget (statement of assurance) based on recommendations from an internal expert panel supported by external experts; o the redeployment of a number of posts from support services to audit services.
6 The "Audit Strategy 2009-2012" is available on the Court's website.
27 INTRODUCTION OF CHAMBERS DUE TO THE NEW RULES OF PROCEDURE One of the main recommendations that emerged from the Court's reform process was that the Court should benefit from the possibility provided for in Article 287(4) of the Treaty, while maintaining the principle of collegiality, of certain categories of reports and opinions from Chambers accept, make use of.
Chambers were set up on 1 June 2010 following the Council's approval of the necessary amendments to the Court's Rules of Procedure. These are composed of members of the Court and adopt special reports, special annual reports and opinions on draft legislation. Previously, all these reports and opinions were adopted by the whole College, and this is still the case for the annual reports on the EU budget and the EDFs.
Although most of the Court's reports are now adopted by the Chambers, the Chambers have the option to refer their documents to the Court for acceptance.
All members may attend meetings of chambers to which they are not members without the right to vote.
The members of the court
28 MEASURING THE COURT'S PERFORMANCE IN 2010 Since 2008, the Court has progressively developed a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to: o inform management on progress towards the implementation of the 2009-2012 objectives; o to support the decision-making process; o provide performance-related information to the Court's stakeholders.
As an overview of all indicators is available for the first time for 2010, this year serves as a reference year for future progress assessments. The Court is very pleased with the results it achieved in 2010 on its key performance indicators, particularly on the quality and impact of its work.
Even more important, however, is the fact that the indicators clearly show where progress is needed and where issues need to be addressed in order to improve future performance.
29 Quality and impact of the Court's work The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports through user judgements, peer reviews and follow-up to its recommendations.
Users' assessments Through a survey, the Court asked the main users of its reports (European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and the Council's Committee on Budgets) and the main auditees (mainly European Commission staff) to assess the quality and impact of those published in 2009 Annual reports (on the general budget and on the EDFs) and special reports.
The assessment should be based on a five-point scale (1 - very bad, 2 - bad, 3 - fair, 4 - good, 5 - very good).
2010 Target A key user's assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports 4.2 ≥4 The auditee's assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work The result shows that the key users of the Court's reports rate them as 'good' on average .
The farm endeavors to maintain this level of performance or to improve it.
Expert reviews Two external bodies checked the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports published in 2009 and 2010. The auditors assessed eight special reports and the annual report on the general budget and EDFs for both years and rated the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-point scale from 'seriously impaired' (1) to 'high quality' (4).
2010 Target 3.0 ≥ 3 3.7 ≥4 External expert reviews of the content and presentation of the Court's reports The result shows that the reviewers consider the quality of the Court's reports to be 'satisfactory'.
The reviews provided valuable insights and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports.
30 Follow-up to recommendations The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations to help improve financial management. For changes to take place, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the auditees and then implemented. The indicator is based on the recommendations in the annual and special reports published in 2009, ie the latest available.
2010 Target 90% ≥ 90% Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the auditee The Court aims to maintain or even improve on this high level of acceptance of its recommendations.
In 2010, the Court put in place a system to monitor the audited entities' implementation of the recommendations.
In the coming years, this system should serve as a basis for another indicator of the extent to which recommendations are put into practice and lead to improvements.
In addition, it will provide the Court with valuable insights for improving the quality of its recommendations and thus increasing their acceptance by the audited bodies.
31 Efficiency and effectiveness in use of resources The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources in terms of its ability to submit reports and audit findings in a timely manner, to fulfill its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and professional competence of its staff. Timeliness of reports The Court aims to adopt all scheduled reports within the set deadlines.
Deadlines laid down in legislation must be observed for the publication of the annual report and the specific annual reports.
For special reports for which there is no statutory publication date, the planned acceptance date is the deadline.
2010 target Number of reports adopted versus number of reports planned 90% 100% Proportion of reports adopted on time 80% 100% Overall, the Court fell short of the 2010 target.
The Court accepted fewer reports in 2010 than planned; the level of performance is comparable to that of the previous year (91% in 2009). In addition, while the proportion of reports adopted on time increased in 2010 (80% compared to 67% in 2009), there is still room for improvement.
While all annual reports and all but one special annual report were adopted and published on schedule, only three special reports were.
Adoption of six special reports was delayed until 2011.
The Court aims to achieve the targets by the end of 2012 by initiating further actions to improve the management of special report processes.
2010 Target Percentage of audit communications delivered on time 54% 80% by 2012 Performance in 2010 is still below the required level, but there has been significant progress towards the target over the past two years (43% per year 2009 and 27% in 2008).
The Court will continue its efforts to achieve the target. External assessment of financial management The Court aims to obtain an unqualified opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources from its independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament following a favorable recommendation from the Council.
2010 Target Yes Yes Unqualified opinion of the independent auditor and discharge
Professional development In line with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court aims to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional development.
2010 Target Average number of training days per person 5.7 days ≥ 5 days 33 In 2010 the required performance level was achieved, which means an improvement compared to 2009 (average of 4 days).
Level of staff satisfaction In an internal staff satisfaction survey carried out in 2009, 86 % of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their job, with an overall staff satisfaction level of 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4. Any score above 2.5 indicates overall satisfaction. The Court aims to maintain or improve on this result when a similar survey is carried out at the end of 2012.
34 AUDIT SUPPORT The success of the Court's audit work depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its technical services. These services provide the logistical and professional/technical know-how that enables the Court to: o recruit, retain and motivate its staff and develop their professional skills; o to disseminate the exam results in all official EU languages; o make the best possible use of information technology; o manage its budget and maintain its infrastructure; o Conduct audit trips to all countries where EU funds are spent.
Staff Allocation of staff The Court's most important asset is its staff. At 31 December 2010 the Court's staff totaled 889 (officials and temporary agents but excluding members, contract agents, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 557 work in Audit Chambers (including 123 staff in Members' private offices), 151 in the Translation Directorate, 157 in administrative support services and 24 in the President's services. With a view to the goal of the best possible use of resources, in 2010 possibilities for increasing efficiency by simplifying processes and rationalizing services were again explored and implemented in all activities.
Wherever possible, posts freed up by efficiency gains outside the audit area have been transferred to the audit service, increasing the number of posts used for audit tasks by 6%. This process will continue in 2011.
Breakdown of Court posts at 31 December 2008 2009 2010 Audit Chambers 501 525 557 Translation 163 163 151 Assistance 173 171 157 Services of the President 20 21 24 Total 857 880 889
35 Men Women The charts below show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as of December 31, 2010. Like the other EU institutions, the Court applies an equal opportunities policy to human resources and recruitment.
20 of the 67 directors and heads of unit (30%) are women, a steady increase over previous years.
However, most of them work in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative services.
2001 2010 54% 46% 50% 50%
36 Assistants - Secretaries (function group AST) Auditors - Administrators (function group AD) Male Female 2009 2010 2009 2010 Age profile 2009 2010 Male Female 27% 73% 63% 37% 31% Directors and Heads of Unit 69% 62% 38% Male Female The percentage of females on AD level continues to increase due to new hires.
After the last recruitment wave, 45% of staff in grades AD5 to AD8 are women.
74% 26% 70% 30% The age profile of active staff at 31 December 2010 shows that 62% of the Court's staff are aged 44 or younger. Age 20-24 0% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 24 of the 67 Directors and Heads of Unit are aged 55 or over.
4% 18% 20% 20% 15% 12% 7% 4%
37 Professional development The auditing profession requires constant training to keep up with new developments and acquire new skills.
Efforts were made in 2010 to implement the staff redeployment plan approved by the Secretary-General, which aims to transfer posts and staff from the Translation Service to the Audit Service in 2011. Based on the master plan for training 2008-2011 and the training pathways adopted in 2009, in 2010 the Professional Training Unit improved the content of the training activities and developed new training courses in line with the priorities decided by the Court.
In addition, the Court's Translation Directorate provided valuable linguistic support to auditors on missions and in the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
The Directorate for Translation also supported INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the Court's audit work.
Work on the Artemis project to improve the functionality of this important IT application for translators continued in 2010. In addition, the Court's Translation Directorate actively participated in interinstitutional and international technical fora.
38 Information Technology Information Technology (IT) plays a key role in achieving the overall objectives of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy. Developments in 2010 were: • Launch of a collaborative platform in line with the IT Strategic Plan 2010-2012 to support knowledge sharing, particularly in the audit area; • Continued efforts to streamline and simplify internal processes through electronic workflows to increase efficiency and effectiveness; Management and infrastructure The Directorate for Finance and Support Services is responsible for providing the Court's auditors with adequate support in an efficient, effective and timely manner, and for ensuring that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are in place to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2010, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to free up resources to be reallocated to the audit service. • Use of smart phones and laptop computers to enable audit work to be carried out efficiently anywhere and anytime, including as part of the Court's contingency plan.
Due to an agreement reached with the budgetary authority at the end of 2008 on the financing of the K3 building, one of the main activities in 2010 was the preparation of tenders for the construction and ancillary services and their publication by the project manager.
A large proportion of the orders for this project were awarded during the year. The time and budget framework of the construction project is adhered to. Completion is scheduled for the end of 2012.
39 Audit visits The Court's audit work requires auditors to travel to the Member States and other beneficiaries of EU funds, as well as to the headquarters of international organizations such as the United Nations.
AUDIT VISITS IN 2010 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 The visits are usually to central and local authorities involved in approving, managing and disbursing EU funds and to the respective final recipients.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in liaison with the SAIs of the visited Member State, which provide useful logistical and practical support.
France Germany United Kingdom Italy Spain Netherlands Sweden Portugal Greece Denmark Luxembourg Hungary Poland Ireland Austria Romania Belgium Slovenia Slovakia Czech Republic Lithuania Bulgaria Cyprus Finland Latvia Estonia Malta Croatia Ethiopia Mali Rwanda Bangladesh Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Burkina Faso Dominican Republic Ghana Israel UNMIK Malawi Nepal Norway South Africa Sudan Switzerland Uganda Ukraine USA (UN)
40 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The European Court of Auditors is funded from the general budget of the European Union. Our budget accounts for around 0.1% of total EU spending and less than 2% of total administrative expenditure.
Implementation of the 2010 budget Title 1: Members and staff of the institution Final appropriations Commitments FINANCIAL YEAR 2010 Use of appropriations %(commitments/ appropriations allocated) Payments (in EUR 1 000) 10 - Members of the institution 13 364 12 980 98% 12 687 12 - Officials and temporary staff 94 245 87 459 93% 87 104 14 - Other staff and external services 4 604 3 590 78% 3 567 162 - Missions 3 450 3 231 94% 2 775 161, 163, 165 - Other expenses for members and the staff of the institution 2 861 1 887 66% 1 435 Title 1 total 118 524 109 147 92% 107 568 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenditure 20 - buildings 25 - meetings and conferences 27 - information and publications 18 561 18 390 99% 7 656 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 6 365 6 365 100% 4 035 212, 214, 216 – Furnishings and ancillary costs 834 771 92% 701 23 – Current operating expenses 430 406 94% 274 858 847 92% 642 92% 373 2 032 86% 797 Title 2 total 29 421 28 811 98% 14 105 Court of Auditors total 147 945 137 958 93% 121 673
41 In 2010, the implementation rate of the total available budget was 93%.
42 Budget 2011 The appropriations in the 2011 budget decreased by 2.44% compared to 2010, mainly due to less appropriations for the new court building (K3). The construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of 79 million euros, to be financed over five consecutive years: 55 million euros in 2009, 11 million euros in 2010, 7 million euros in 2011 and 3 million euros each in the years 2012 and 2013.
BUDGET 2011 2010 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 930 13 364 (in EUR 1 000) 12 - Officials and temporary agents 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 161, 163, 165 - Other Expenditure on members and staff of the institution 95 957 3 825 3 652 2 485 6 500 816 422 893 2 240 25 482 144 331 94 246 4 603 3 450 2 861 6 365 877 404 868 2 429 29 Title: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenses Title 1 total 118 849 118 524 20 - Buildings 14 611 18 518 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and associated expenses 23 - Current material expenses for the running of the service 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Court of Auditors as a whole Title 2 as a whole
AUDIT AND ACCOUNTABILITY Internal Audit The Court's Internal Audit Service aims to help the Court achieve its objectives through a systematic, methodical assessment of risk management, internal control and administrative processes. In addition, the Internal Audit Service makes proposals to increase the Court's efficiency based on assessments of the effectiveness of the Court's internal control systems.
In 2010, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused its work on the follow-up of its recommendations from previous years, the review of the reform of the Court's ex ante verification system, the audit of the implementation of the SOS II/SAP system and compliance of the video surveillance system with data protection rules and requirements.
In 2009, the Court's internal audit service was audited and certified in accordance with the internationally recognized standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The auditor's report - PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL - on the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2009 was published in October 20107.
C 279 of 15.10.2010.
44 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S OPINIONS  FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: “In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors at 31 December 2009 and of the results of operations and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 of June 25, 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 2342/2002 of December 23, 2002 with implementing provisions for the above Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors." REGARDING THE USE OF RESOURCES AND THE CONTROL PROCEDURES: In the course of the work steps described in this report, we did not come across any facts from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the assessment criteria mentioned, a) the funds allocated to the Court not for were used for the intended purposes and b) the control procedures put in place do not offer the necessary guarantee that the financial transactions were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
45 DECLARATION OF THE AUTHORIZING OFFICER BY DELEGATION The undersigned, Secretary General of the European Court of Auditors, in his capacity as Authorizing Officer by Delegation, hereby declare o that the information contained in this report is true and accurate, and o certifies with reasonable assurance that • the appropriations earmarked for the activities described in this report have been provided, used for their intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that • the control procedures put in place provide the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and that allegations of fraud are dealt with appropriately, or provide suspicion of fraud. This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as e.g. B. the results of the ex-post controls, the reports of the internal auditor and the opinions of the independent auditor for previous financial years. The undersigned confirms that he is not aware of any unreported circumstance likely to harm the interests of the institution.
Audit Chambers I to IV cover various revenue and expenditure areas, while the fifth, CEAD Chamber, is responsible for horizontal matters. The chambers are supported by examination directorates.
Each member is responsible for specific tasks, primarily in the field of auditing. The members submit audit proposals and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible to the relevant Chamber and the Court.
Members are assisted by their cabinet staff and the team of auditors assigned to the audit task.
ISSN 1684-0666 2011 EN ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
Europe Direct is here to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Toll-free number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Some mobile operators do not provide access to 00 800 numbers or charge a fee.
Much more information on the European Union is available on the Internet, Server Europa (http://europa.eu).
Cataloging dates are at the end of the publication.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2012 ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693 © European Union, 2012 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium PRINTED ON ELEMENTARY BLEACHED CHLORINE-FREE PAPER (ECF)
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2011
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS MISSION MISSION VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing the EU finances under the Treaty.
As the EU's external auditor, it helps improve EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognized for its professionalism and the quality and impact of its work, offering valuable support to its constituency with a view to improving EU financial management.
INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRITY AND IMPARTIALITY PROFESSIONALITY ADDED VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and collaborators.
Impartial scrutiny that takes the views of stakeholders into account but rejects any form of influence from outside direction or pressure.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Participation in the further development of public auditing at EU level and worldwide.
Produce relevant, timely, high-quality reports that are based on sound evidence and evidence, address the needs of its audience, and contain important and meaningful statements.
Contribute to an effective improvement of EU management and contribute to increasing accountability for the management of EU funds.
Promoting team spirit through effective communication.
Increasing efficiency in all aspects of his work.
3 CONTENTS Page 4 FOREWORD FROM THE CHAIRMAN 7 2011 AT A GLANCE 9 OUR ACTIVITIES 9 Audit reports and opinions 23 Cooperation with other SAIs 28 Other activities 31 OUR MANAGEMENT 31 Implementation of the strategy for 2009-2012 33 Metrics of the Court's performance in 2011 37 Supporting the Audit Activities 43 Financial Information 46 Audit and Accountability
4 FOREWORD BY THE PRESIDENT Welcome to the European Court of Auditors' Annual Activity Report 2011.
In 2011, in the wake of the economic and financial crisis, there were significant developments in the EU's economic governance, which have important consequences for the future use of public funds.
Against this background, in May the Court published a position paper showing the impact on accountability, transparency and public audit of the measures taken to address the financial and economic crisis.
Later in the year, the Contact Committee of the Presidents of EU Member States' supreme audit institutions (SAIs) and the European Court of Auditors called on EU decision-makers to ensure that the principles of accountability, transparency and public audit are always applied when dealing with involves the use of public funds are duly observed.
In particular, the SAIs of the euro area called for appropriate arrangements for public external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
This resulted in a decision to set up an Audit Committee for the Stability Mechanism, which will include a member proposed by the Court.
In 2011, the results of our key performance indicators continue to be encouraging, particularly in relation to the follow-up of recommendations accepted by our auditees and the assessment of our audit work by users and external experts.
We increased our output in terms of the number of audit reports and opinions adopted in 2011; nevertheless, we did not succeed in achieving the ambitious goals that we set ourselves with regard to the punctuality of reporting.
Our annual reports now contain even more detailed information and a new chapter on performance aspects. We also produced 42 special annual reports and 16 special reports, along with seven opinions and one position paper.
The scope of our institution's audit powers over the Union's revenue and expenditure, in particular the VAT resource in the Member States, was confirmed by the European Court of Justice in November 2011.
From 2012 we will be able to report on the extent to which our recommendations are being followed in practice.
We will also peer review our performance audit methodology with the aim of continuing to improve the process of producing our special reports.
In 2011 we published ethical guidelines to further strengthen the Court's audit management framework and revised the Court's audit strategies and guidelines to streamline the audit workflow and reporting process.
In addition, we will launch a new employee satisfaction survey in 2012.
Looking ahead, in 2012 we will complete the preparation of our strategy for the period 2013-2017.
Some of the key challenges are already clear: the EU's regulatory environment will continue to evolve and we must continue to push for proper compliance with the principles of accountability, transparency and public audit.
The need for high quality and timely assurance on the use of EU funds is ever increasing and we need to evolve our audits and reports accordingly.
As the EU is constantly changing, we will endeavor to use our audit experience to the best of our ability to support policy makers in improving financial management.
Strengthening the EU's financial accountability is a goal we share with other actors and we will seek to combine our efforts by entering into strategic partnerships.
Finally, like the other EU institutions and bodies, we need to be prepared to do more with less to make our organization more efficient.
Meeting these challenges will depend crucially on the efforts of all the Court's staff.
The development of the excellence of our employees - a fundamental value of our institution - is and remains an important concern for us.
Looking at the professionalism, commitment and results achieved by our staff in the past, I am confident that the Court will be able to achieve these future goals.
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5th
7 2011 AT A GLANCE OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010 with even more detailed information o 42 specific annual reports on the different agencies, decentralized bodies and agencies of the EU for the financial year 2010 o 16 Special reports on specific budgetary areas or management issues o 7 opinions providing input on budgetary reform, such as the modernization of public procurement policy and the Commission's legislative proposal laying down rules for cohesion spending after 2013 o Position paper on the consequences of the current financial and economic crisis for the public accountability and public audit within the EU and for the Court's role OUR MANAGEMENT o continued to be encouraged by the results of our key performance indicators, particularly on quality and impact o Adoption of ethical guidelines to further strengthen the framework for audit management o Revision of the Court's audit strategies and audit guidelines to streamline the audit workflow and reporting process o Transfer of administrative staff to audit, which helped to improve the Increase in auditor staff by more than 12% compared to 2008 o Major construction work on the construction project for the Court's second extension building essentially completed, with interior work underway
Number of reports and opinions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Annual specific reports on EU agencies and decentralized bodies 29 29 37 40 42 Special reports 9 12 18 14 16 Opinions and other communications 9 5 1 6 8 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in 22 official EU languages.
This led to the release of the 2010 Annual Report, including the seventeenth Statement of Assurance (DAS), on November 10, 2011.
The 2010 annual report featured some changes to improve clarity and information.
These include a redesign of the policy groups (and corresponding annual report chapters) under which the Court groups expenditure, the publication of estimated error rates by policy area (see below), an increased focus on recommendations to improve financial management and a new chapter on performance aspects.
For the first time, the Court published estimated error rates for both the EU budget as a whole and for individual policy groups.
The error rates are obtained by extrapolating the quantifiable errors found in the sample of transactions checked.
The Court compares the estimated level of error to a materiality threshold of 2 % to determine whether the error is material, taking into account other evidence.
Error rates are not a measure of fraud but reflect the Court's estimate of the extent to which the rules governing expenditure have been breached.
This includes breaches of public procurement rules, ineligible or incorrectly calculated costs in projects co-financed by the EU, or over-declarations of area provided by farmers.
T he annual report 2010 key messages were as follows: o The annual accounts for the financial year 2010 fairly present the financial position of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year as a whole.
The payments on which these annual accounts are based, however, are afflicted with errors to a significant extent; the estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole is 3.7%.
Overall, the control systems were partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments. o The error rate estimated by the Court for spending on cohesion, energy and transport (the EU's most error-prone spending area) was 7.7%, higher than in 2009. o In the remaining EU spending areas, the error rate remained relatively stable.
In the area of agriculture and natural resources, the estimated error rate was 2.3%, which was above the materiality threshold.
However, the direct payments to farmers were free of material errors. o The share of advance payments - pre-financing - within the EU budget has increased significantly.
Accounting rules and supervisory arrangements have not been adapted accordingly. o When planning EU spending programmes, the Commission and Member States should pay more attention to setting SMART targets, ie specific, measurable, achievable, relevant and timed targets, but also to acknowledging any risks that may arise during implementation identify and contain.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUNDS 2010 In its Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2010 (published on 10 November 2011), the Court concluded that the 2010 annual accounts of the EDFs present the financial situation of the EDFs and the results of their Appropriately present transactions and cash flows in accordance with the financial regulations in all material respects.
The EDF's revenues are free from material error.
The EDF commitments were legal and regular, notwithstanding the non-quantifiable errors found in the area of procurement.
However, EDF payments for projects were affected by material errors; the estimated margin of error is 3.4%.
The errors found concerned non-compliance with eligibility conditions.
The Court's assessment was that, overall, the control systems put in place at the EDF only provide a limited guarantee of the regularity of payments.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE EU AGENCIES, DECENTRALIZED BODIES AND OTHER BODIES FOR 2010 In December 2011, the Court published specific annual reports on the financial year 2010 for all 42 EU agencies, decentralized bodies (e.g. Joint Undertakings) and other bodies (in particular the efficiency the administration of the European Central Bank).
The Court gave an unqualified opinion on all audited entities except for the European GNSS Agency because certain assets were not accounted for and for the ENIAC Joint Undertaking because the budget outturn account was not included in the annual accounts.
The EU agencies and decentralized bodies were set up by the EU legislator to carry out specific tasks.
Each agency has a mandate, board of directors, director, staff and budget.
The agencies work in many areas, such as security, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
11 President Caldeira presenting the 2010 annual report to the plenary session of the European Parliament
12 SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2011 In addition to its annual reports, the Court publishes special reports throughout the year containing the results of the performance and compliance audits that the Court carries out on specific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice.
In selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court aims to maximize impact and use its resources in the best possible way.
When selecting the topics, the Court takes into account the following factors: o the risks to profitability or compliance with legal standards in the area of revenue or expenditure concerned; o the amount of the respective income or expenses; o the time elapsed since any previous check; o forthcoming developments within the relevant legal framework; o the political and public interest.
In 2011 the Court adopted 16 special reports on a range of subjects, an increase on the 14 special reports adopted in 2010.
These special reports are presented below in concise form under the relevant headings of the financial framework – the EU's multiannual budget.
The special reports are available in full in 22 EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu or via the EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 13 Sustainable growth is about growth and jobs and has two themes: competitiveness includes fostering research and technological development, connecting Europe, education and training, fostering competitiveness in a fully integrated single market, the social policy agenda and the dismantling of nuclear facilities.
EU spending for growth and jobs over the period 2007-2013 amounts to €89.4 billion, ie 9.2% of the total, of which almost two-thirds goes to research and development. Cohesion for growth and jobs mainly concerns the cohesion policy implemented in the form of funds dedicated to specific areas of activity – European Social Fund, Cohesion Fund and European Regional Development Fund.
The funds are spent under shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
The EU budget for cohesion for the period 2007-2013 is €348.4 billion (35.7% of the total EU budget).
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Effectiveness of the SME Guarantee Facility (Special Report No 4/2011) from the point of view of its design and planning, as well as the management of its related operations and the achievement of objectives.
The SME Guarantee Facility (SMEG Facility) is a financial instrument managed by the European Investment Fund on behalf of the European Commission. This facility provides financial intermediaries with guarantees or counter-guarantees for loans made by financial institutions to SMEs, thereby increasing the availability of debt financing. o Effectiveness of tourism projects co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report 6/2011) in terms of expected results, their sustainability, European added value and project design.
The audit was based on a broad survey of projects in new Member States and 26 regions.
In the period 2000-2006, the ERDF provided EU funds totaling 4.6 billion euros for physical investments in tourism projects. Projects are selected and managed by managing authorities in the Member States.
14 o Effectiveness of eGovernment projects funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report No. 9/2011) focusing on the programming period 2000-2006 and the four Member States Spain, France, Italy and Poland.
The audit assessed whether the co-financed projects were selected on the basis of identified needs, whether they were implemented according to plan and whether they were relevant and sustainable.
With the help of these 6.7 billion euros from the ERDF for the promotion of the information society, new secure technologies were to be developed, infrastructures expanded and regions connected via broadband. o Effectiveness of the Commission's management of state aid control (Special Report No. 15/2011).
The audit examined whether the procedures and systems ensure that the Commission deals with all relevant State aid cases, that cases are dealt with effectively and within the foreseen deadlines, and that they allow the Commission to monitor the impact of its state aid control.
It is the Commission's task to ensure that state aid granted by Member States is compatible with the European Union's internal market.
Member States must first notify aid measures to the Commission and obtain the Commission's approval before granting state aid. o Implementation of the EU financial support for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia (Special Report No. 16/2011) to assess whether the measures of the nuclear decommissioning programs were tailored to the needs, whether they were implemented as planned and whether the accountability and management structures were in place to ensure the effective use of EU funds.
As part of their EU accession negotiations, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia committed themselves to the early shutdown and subsequent decommissioning of eight nuclear reactors that cannot be upgraded.
In response to the exceptional burden, the EU made available €2.9 billion in grants for the three country programs over the period 1999-2013.
The EU has high political responsibilities in the areas of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 is €413.1 billion, ie 42.3% of the total budget.
Three-quarters of spending concerns direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) - the 'first pillar' of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
More than a fifth of spending goes to EU support for rural development, funded by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second 'pillar' of the CAP.
Agriculture and rural development are managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES In 2011 the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Single Payment Scheme under the Common Agricultural Policy (Special Report No 5/2011) - See box: "A close-up of a performance audit" o How well is it designed and managed of the funded agri-environmental measures? (Special Report No. 7/2011).
This report assesses whether agri-environment policy is designed and monitored in a way that delivers tangible environmental benefits, whether farmers are adequately supported through appropriate guidance and correctly set aid amounts, and whether the management of agri-environment policy takes specific environmental needs into account.
The aim of agri-environmental policy is to meet the increasing societal demand for environmental services by encouraging farmers to introduce or maintain production methods compatible with protecting and improving the environment.
Management of this area is shared between the Commission and the Member States. o Recovery of undue payments under the Common Agricultural Policy (Special Report No. 8/2011) to assess the effectiveness of the systems set up and operated by Member States to recover identified debts.
This audit examined whether Member States are properly recording and processing claims, whether Member States' actions to recover identified wrongful payments are successful, whether Member States deal with the derecognition of bad debts properly, and whether the Commission's monitoring and oversight is effective .
The European Union spends around 55 billion euros on agriculture and rural development every year. Some of the funds are wrongly disbursed due to irregular or incorrect claims. 15
16 o Effectiveness of the School Milk and School Fruit schemes (Special Report 10/2011) to assess whether EU support has a direct impact on consumption by beneficiaries and whether the schemes are capable of having the intended educational impact and influence future eating habits.
These EU programs aim to encourage children to eat healthily by consuming dairy products and fruit and vegetables; another objective is to help improve market conditions for these products.
The EU currently provides annual funds of 180 million euros for these two programmes. o Is the design and management of the Geographical Indications regime enabling it to be effective? (Special Report No. 11/2011).
As part of this audit, the reliability of the control system, the attractiveness of the scheme for producers and its awareness among consumers were assessed.
The aim of the EU regime for geographical indications is to protect the names of products that have a link between their characteristics and the geographical area from which they originate.
The scheme offers economic opportunities for farmers and food producers and can have a positive impact on rural economies in EU regions. o Effectiveness of EU measures to adapt fishing fleet fishing capacity to existing fishing opportunities (Special Report No. 12/2011).
The audit examined whether there was a clear framework for reducing fleet capacity and whether the specific measures were precisely defined and implemented.
The audit took place at the Commission and in Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Poland, Portugal and the UK.
The aim of the EU's Common Fisheries Policy is to promote sustainable fisheries by establishing a balance between fish stocks and the fishing fleet in order to avoid overfishing of stocks.
Overcapacity in the fishing fleet has been a problem for many years. It threatens both the sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fisheries sector.
EUR 4.3 billion will be made available from the European Fisheries Fund for the 2007-2013 programming period.
17 PERFORMANCE AUDIT CLOSE-UP SPECIAL REPORT NO. 5/2011 SPECIAL PAYMENT SCHEME: ISSUES FOR BETTER FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT This performance audit covered the sound financial management of payments under the SPS currently applied in 17 of the 27 EU Member States.
Expenditure related to this scheme amounted to around EUR 28.8 billion in 2009.
The introduction of the SPS was a key element of the 2003 reform of the EU's Common Agricultural Policy.
The aim of this scheme was to encourage farm owners to be more responsive to market demands and to provide them with income support.
In the course of the reform, the link between support and production was broken ("decoupling").
Instead, farmers must have eligible agricultural land and 'payment entitlements'.
From 2006 the Court undertook a series of audits of the procedures put in place at the Commission and in the Member States to ensure the accuracy of payment entitlements and the correctness of payments to farmers.
These audits covered all 17 Member States applying the scheme. The results of these audits fed into the 2006 and 2007 annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget.
Based on these results, the Court decided to carry out a performance audit focusing on: o the beneficiaries of the scheme, access to SPS and the definition of eligible land; o the contribution of the scheme to the objectives of income support for farmers and keeping farmland in good agricultural and environmental condition; o the specific consequences of using the different models to implement the scheme.
Audit visits took place in 2009 and 2010 at the Commission, France, Italy and the UK.
The conclusion of the resulting Special Report No 5/2011 was that the SPS has contributed to the achievement of the two main objectives of the Common Agricultural Policy: it has encouraged farmers to be more responsive to market demands and it has supported the income of the farming sector as a whole .
Generally speaking, however, several questionable features have emerged in the implementation of the scheme, such as the definition of the beneficiaries of this policy, the types of eligible parcels and activities, the impact of the scheme on the environment, the distribution of the aid from Member State to Member State and within of the Member States and the particular impact of the historical and regional models.
18 The Court recommends in the report that it is better if the SPS goes to active farmers and non-agricultural parcels and activities that do not contribute to increasing agricultural productivity or actively maintaining the environmental value of the land are excluded from support.
In addition, the Court recommends that the level of SPS takes into account the costs of environmental and other externalities and that a more balanced distribution of support among farmers is sought.
The calculation of the SPS should be based on current farming conditions.
The examination was conducted by a multidisciplinary team of eight Chamber I examiners. The audit work not only shed further light on the concept of the decoupled SPS, but also on how the transition process from the previous coupled support scheme to the current scheme is affecting it.
According to team leader Sven Kölling, examining the diverse models and variants for implementing the scheme, together with the juxtaposition of national and regional management strategies and their impact on the economy and effectiveness of the payment, presented a particular challenge.
Audit visits to the final beneficiaries and on-the-spot checks at the premises proved essential to obtain the audit evidence to support the findings and conclusions.
Many of the Court's recommendations have been reflected in the Commission's proposals for the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy after 2013 (under discussion at the time of writing this report), including the definition of an 'active farmer' and minimum activities on certain areas, distribution of premium payments to beneficiaries, reducing the variety of implementation models for the SPS and better considering environmental externalities in the calculation of SPS.
Test team from left to right: (first row) Heike Walz, court member Michel Cretin, Aurelia Petliza, (second row) Pietro Puricella, Dirk Pauwels, Sven Kölling, Sylvain Lehnhard
THE EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER 19 The EU's external relations activities focus on enlargement, bringing about stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood, actively supporting sustainable development at international level, promoting global political governance and ensuring the strategic and civil security.
The EU has earmarked EUR 55.9 billion for the period 2007-2013, ie 5.7% of its total planned expenditure, for these objectives.
Most of the expenditure is managed by the Commission directly through its central services or its delegations.
Some funding measures are also jointly managed with international organisations.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Has the devolution of the management of external assistance from the Commission's central services to its delegations led to better delivery of aid?
(Special Report No. 1/2011).
The purpose of the audit was to examine the management arrangements and their impact on speeding up the delivery and improving the quality of aid and establishing stable financial procedures.
The EU is the world's largest donor of development aid, with much of this aid (€8.4 billion in 2009) managed by the Commission under its management system. Under this system, from 2002, powers were delegated to the Commission's field offices in the partner countries. o Efficiency and effectiveness of EU contributions channeled through United Nations agencies in conflict-affected countries (Special Report No. 3/2011) with a focus on projects in Afghanistan, Iraq and Sudan in 2006-2008.
In the period 2005-2009, EuropeAid provided around 4 billion euros via UN organisations.
The EU can provide funds as a sole donor or jointly with other donors, as contributions to trust funds without earmarking the funds for specific activities or objectives, or as a contribution to the general budget of a UN agency. o Effectiveness of EU assistance in improving Croatia's ability to manage post-accession funds (Special Report No. 14/2011) to assess the Commission's planning of assistance and whether the projects financed with EU funds are achieving the intended results became.
The aim of EU pre-accession assistance is to help candidate countries build their administrative capacity to prepare them to manage the larger EU grants to which they will be entitled as Member States.
EU pre-accession assistance for Croatia has amounted to EUR 150 million annually since 2007.
The budget of the European Union is mainly financed from own resources and other revenues.
Traditional own resources - mainly customs duties - account for around 12% and the VAT own resource for another 12% of total revenue.
The bulk of the EU's own resource (70%) comes from the Gross National Income-derived own resource, which ensures that the budget is always in balance.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Management of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) (Special Report No. 2/2011) evaluating the measures taken to implement the recommendations of the previous Special Report No. 1/2005 of the Hofes have been taken on this subject.
The starting point of the audit was whether OLAF has now shifted the focus of its activities to its investigative function and is more efficient in its investigations, how it demonstrates the effectiveness of its investigative work and whether the role of the Supervisory Committee has been clarified.
OLAF's mission is to fight fraud and any other illegal activity affecting the EU budget.
The Office is attached to the Commission but has full independence in conducting its investigations and employs around 500 staff. Its annual expenses amount to around 50 million euros.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: o Does the control of customs procedure 42 prevent and detect VAT evasion? (Special Report No. 13/2011). As part of this audit, we examined whether there is a sound legal framework for tackling VAT evasion under customs procedure 42.
Tests were carried out in Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Austria, Slovenia and Sweden.
Customs procedure 42 is a mechanism used by an EU importer to obtain a VAT exemption.
The procedure applies when goods imported into one Member State from outside the EU are transported to another Member State.
In such cases, VAT is due in the Member State of destination.
OPINIONS AND POSITION PAPERS ISSUED IN 2011 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management through its opinions on proposals for new or amended legislation with a financial impact.
These opinions are issued at the request of the other EU institutions and are used by the legislative authorities - the European Parliament and the Council - in their work.
The Court can also issue position papers on other issues on its own initiative.
In 2011, the Court adopted seven opinions: o 1/2011: Proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 on the financial rules applicable to the tenth European Development Fund as regards the European External Action Service o 2 /2011: Financial Regulation of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking o 3/2011: Proposal to amend the Financial Regulation of the European Schools o 4/2011: Commission Green Paper on Modernizing European Public Procurement Policy o 5/2011: Proposal for a Regulation (Euratom) of the Council on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centers and universities in indirect actions of the framework program of the European Atomic Energy Community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013) o 6/2011: Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 on investigations by the European Office for Anti-Fraud (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 Opinion 7/2011 concerned proposals for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down common provisions on cohesion spending, covering up to 45% of EU Overall expenditure for the period 2014-2020 could be eliminated.
The contribution made by the EU budget to the Europe 2020 targets therefore depends to a large extent on the economical, efficient and effective use of these funds.
This will also affect the credibility and legitimacy of EU action.
The EU remains challenged to achieve good quality results from a regime where funds are pre-allocated among Member States and absorption of these funds is an implicit objective.
Effective monitoring and accountability by the Commission would help Member States to use the funds successfully.
The opinions are available in full in all official EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu. 21
22 COURT POSITION PAPER: IMPLICATIONS OF THE CURRENT FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CRISIS ON PUBLIC ACCOUNTABILITY AND PUBLIC FINANCIAL CONTROL WITHIN THE EU AND ON THE ROLE OF THE COURT The ongoing global financial and economic crisis has had far-reaching consequences for the European Union.
To address the crisis, the EU took action to ensure the long-term sustainability of the financial sector, support economic recovery and growth, provide financial assistance to Member States and strengthen fiscal and economic policy coordination between Member States.
In addition, these measures have a decisive influence on how public funds, ie EU citizens' taxpayers' money, are spent in the Union.
These changes in the Union's regulatory fabric pose new challenges in terms of accountability, transparency and public audit.
In the Court's view, the principle that applies to the implementation of these new measures is that whenever public funds are involved, there should be appropriate arrangements for transparency, public accountability and public auditing.
The Court therefore adopted on 19 May 2011 a position paper on the implications of the current financial and economic crisis for public accountability and public auditing in the EU and for the role of the Court.
In this position paper, the Court concluded that we will cover the new supervisory authorities, the support mechanisms with EU budgetary guarantees and, where possible, the Commission's activities in the context of the European Semester in our audits.
In the Court's view, the treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism should provide for some form of external public financial control.
Finally, the Court notes that in a number of cases, accountability and transparency issues need to be reconsidered by the relevant EU institutions, in particular the European Parliament and the Council.
COOPERATION WITH OTHER SAIs The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) mainly in the following bodies: o Contact Committee of SAIs of EU Member States; o Network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; o International organizations of public sector audit bodies, in particular the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its European regional group (EUROSAI).
CONTACT COMMITTEE In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies work together in a spirit of trust while respecting their independence.
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of the EU Member States through the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee brings together the Presidents of the EU SAIs and the Court once a year.
The Contact Committee provides a forum for cooperation and the exchange of expertise and experience in the field of auditing EU funds and other EU issues.
Working groups have been set up to help develop common positions and approaches.
In 2011, the Court was Acting Chair of the Contact Committee, continued to provide administrative support to the Committee and actively participated in the various working groups and networks.
The 2011 annual meeting of the Contact Committee took place on 13 and 14 October 2011 at the Court's premises.
The session focused on a seminar on the impact of the European Semester and other recent developments in EU economic governance on EU SAIs and the Court.
In this context, the regulation and supervision of financial systems and financial institutions, state aid to the financial sector and the examination of the mechanisms to deal with the euro crisis were dealt with, among other things.
The Contact Committee adopted a declaration addressed to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission, as well as the parliaments and governments of the EU Member States.
In addition, the Contact Committee adopted a resolution to address the call from the SAIs of the euro area countries for adequate external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
The statement and resolution are available on the Contact Committee website (www.contactcommittee.eu).
23 The keynote speakers at the 2011 Contact Committee meeting: Commissioner Olli Rehn, Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden and ECB Vice-President Vítor Constâncio together with Court of Auditors President Vítor Caldeira (third from left).
24 STATEMENT ON THE IMPACT OF THE EUROPEAN SEMESTER AND OTHER RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EU ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE ON THE SUPREME AUDIT INSTITUTIONS OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS. THIS DECLARATION, ADOPTED BY THE CONTACT COMMITTEE ON 14 OCTOBER 2011, HIGHLIGHTED THE PRINCIPLES TO BE OBSERVED IN THE USE OF PUBLIC FUNDS AND DETERMINED THE PRINCIPLES OF FUTURE COOPERATION Appropriate public audit The Contact Committee is convinced that whenever public funds are involved, the the following principles should be observed: o “sufficient transparency in the form of reliable and timely information (including national statistics) on the current or planned use of public funds and the associated risks; o Appropriate accountability, with public scrutiny of policies and accountability of decision-makers and those responsible for managing procedures; o Appropriate public audit to provide assurance and information on the use of public funds and the risks involved, thereby contributing to transparency and providing a basis for accountability”.
With a view to an effective response to the economic and financial crisis and its consequences in the area of public audit, the EU SAIs and the Court of Auditors will “reflect, as far as possible and within the limits of their respective mandates, to adapt their audit work to the new framework conditions.
In some cases this process has already started with the introduction of new and updated exam questions.”
25 Further developing cooperation between EU SAIs and the Court The increasing integration of economic systems in the EU underscores the value of a common perspective, which can be gained through close cooperation within the framework of the Contact Committee.
This includes: o “collective learning from recent exam results and their implications as a way of gathering and sharing knowledge; o Identification and dissemination of current best practices when examining new (and existing) regulations; o Identifying public audit gaps and possible new audit tasks and partnerships and how best to address them; o Consideration of developing specific audit methodologies and techniques for SAIs and tools and guidance for their application.” To develop these actions, the Contact Committee will use its existing Europe 2020 and fiscal policy audit networks, parallel or coordinated audits carry out and initiate other corresponding cooperation activities.
Contact Committee meeting 2011 on 13th and 14th October in Luxembourg
26 NETWORK OF CANDIDATE AND POTENTIAL CANDIDATE COUNTRY SAIs The Court actively participated in the activities of the Network of Candidate and Potential Candidate SAIs1.
The organizational structure of the network is similar to that of the Contact Committee and includes regular meetings of the Presidents of SAIs and liaison officers, as well as working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits.
The main aim is to promote the use of audit methods and procedures that are in line with international standards and EU best practices.
A meeting of the Presidents of the Network took place on March 8th and 9th, 2011 in Istanbul.
The Turkish Court of Auditors and the European Court of Auditors co-chaired this meeting, which led to the adoption of the Istanbul Memorandum of Understanding, including a work program for future activities to be implemented with the active support of the European Court of Auditors, SIGMA and EU SAI representatives target.
OTHER FORMS OF COOPERATION In 2011, the European Court of Auditors led a peer review of the Norwegian Court of Auditors with the participation of the SAIs of Austria and Finland.
The report was published in June 2011.
The Court continued its active involvement and involvement in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI.
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of INTOSAI, it has actively participated in the subcommittees on the professional standards for the different types of audits.
During 2011, following the endorsement of a Comprehensive Set of International Standards (ISSAI) by the XX. INCOSAI Congress in November 2010 - with the implementation of their new work plans, which focus on the harmonization of the framework for the ISSAIs and the dissemination of the standards and guidelines.
In addition, the Court provided input to the Subcommittee “Promoting Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews” and the Subcommittee “Increasing Funding for Capacity-Building Activities of INTOSAI Members” and the INTOSAI Working Group on Environmental Auditing.
In addition, since 2008, the Court has chaired the INTOSAI Working Group on Accountability and Audit of Disaster Relief.
A key objective of this working group is to develop guidance, identify and disseminate good practice in the area of accountability for disaster relief, focusing on stakeholder (multilateral, aid, government, private auditor) activities.
1 As of February 2012, the network included five candidate countries (Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro and Turkey) and three potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia).
In relation to EUROSAI, the Court is now more involved as it will become a member of the Governing Board for the next six years.
The Court actively participated in the VIII EUROSAI Congress (30 May to 2 June 2011), which focused on the challenges, needs and responsibilities of public administrations and the role of SAIs, as well as audits by SAIs of independent regulatory agencies.
A declaration was adopted strengthening the independence of the SAI.
In December 2011, the joint efforts of the INTOSAI community and its regional working groups to strengthen SAI independence and recognize the Lima and Mexico Declarations culminated in the adoption of the resolution “Promoting Efficient, Accountable, Effective, and Transparent Public Administration Strengthening Supreme Audit Institutions” by the United Nations General Assembly. 27
28 OTHER ACTIVITIES POWERS OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS RELATED TO THE AUDIT OF VAT OWN RESOURCES On 15 November 2011 the Court of Justice delivered its judgment in Case C-539/09 Commission v. Federal Republic of Germany concerning the audit powers of the European Court of Auditors in the field of own resources, derived from Value Added Tax (VAT).
The case stems from the refusal by the German Federal Ministry of Finance in 2006 to allow the European Court of Auditors to carry out audits on administrative cooperation between Member States in the field of VAT under Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 in Germany .
In preparing its Special Report No 8/2007, the Court decided to carry out audits in eight Member States, including Germany.
The German authorities objected to the Court's right to carry out the audit in question.
The reason given by the German government was that the administrative cooperation between the Member States, regulated by Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003, had no direct link with EU revenue, since VAT is a national tax and therefore part of the VAT own resource be different.
The latter are established following a series of calculations and represent a relatively small proportion of the amounts collected as VAT by Member States.
The Court of Justice firmly rejected the German Government's argument based on a strict distinction between Member States' VAT revenue and the Union's own VAT resource.
Following the arguments put forward by the Commission, the European Parliament and the European Court of Auditors, the Court of Justice emphasized the dependence of the VAT own resource on the VAT revenue of the Member States.
The Court of Justice confirmed that the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 on administrative cooperation in the field of VAT extended to establishing cooperation mechanisms between Member States enabling them to combat VAT evasion more effectively and collect VAT more effectively.
This also affects the availability of the VAT own resource for the EU budget.
Cooperation between national authorities, if carried out effectively and in accordance with the Regulation, can contribute to reducing fraud and the effective collection of VAT in the Member States, as well as keeping the VAT-based own resource at the level required by the various relevant legal acts of the EU, and thereby to maintain the overall balance of own resources.
The Court of Justice concluded that the Court of Auditors was competent to carry out the envisaged audit in relation to administrative cooperation in the field of VAT, since it related to the EU's revenue from the point of view of its legality and sound financial management and was therefore directly linked to the powers conferred on the Court of Auditors by the Treaty.
In Case C-539/09, the Court of Justice had to rule explicitly for the first time on the scope of the Court's audit powers.
The Court's ruling is valuable and encouraging because it clarifies and underpins the institution's powers of scrutiny over Member States.
LÁZARO PRIZE FOR RESEARCH IN PUBLIC SECTOR AUDIT In 2010, the Court launched the Prize for Research in Public Sector Audit with the aim of establishing links with academia and promoting the development of public auditing in Europe.
This inaugural award commemorated Jesús Lázaro Cuenca, a former Director of the Court who over many years contributed to the development of the institution's audit methods and approaches.
Lázaro laureates Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo were presented with the awards by the President of the Court, Vítor Caldeira, and the Selection Committee in a public ceremony held on July 5, 2011 at the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg.
Both laureates presented their scientific contributions in an academic session: Ms. Sara Belleil: "Contribution à une sociologie des pratiques managériales dans les politiques européennes. The example of the audit of the ONG humanitaires: between importation and appropriation”.
Mr. José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo: "The control of public administration and the fight against corruption: Special reference to the Court of Audit and General audit of the state administration".
29 The European Court of Auditors was deeply saddened by the news of Sara Belleil's untimely death on 30 November 2011 and would like to pay tribute to the quality and importance of her work. President Caldeira with Lázaro Prize winners Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo
31 OUR MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY FOR 20092012 In recent years the Court has embarked on an internal reform process.
This included the development of its first strategy for the period 2009-20122 with the following overarching objectives: o Maximize the overall impact of the audits; o Improving efficiency through the best possible use of resources.
Many of the priority actions foreseen in the strategy have already been completed. 2 The 'Audit Strategy 2009-2012' is available at www.eca.europa.eu. attacked. The main achievements in 2011 were: o an increase in the number of special reports; an average of 16 special reports per year were published over the period 2009-2011, exceeding the target of 12-15 reports per year; o major contributions in view of the reform of the EU budget; o Initiate the preparation of regular follow-up reports on previous findings, including an overall report on follow-up actions to be produced for the first time in 2012; o revised audit strategies and audit guidelines; o increasing focus on core activities by moving staff from support services to the audit service; o Publication of a position paper on the implications of the current financial and economic crisis for public accountability and public audit within the EU and for the role of the ECA.
ETHICAL GUIDELINES FOR THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS Following the recommendation of the peer review carried out by an international panel of experts in 2008, the Court strengthened its audit management framework by adopting ethical guidelines based on the INTOSAI Code of Ethics and the International Standard on Quality Assurance build within the SAI3.
In this context, the Court has put in place a process to provide reasonable assurance, on an annual basis, that its auditors comply with the relevant ethical requirements.
Adherence to the values of impartiality, objectivity, loyalty and professional secrecy set out in the ethical guidelines ensures that the Court's staff act in the public interest, uninfluenced by external pressure and uninfluenced by personal or financial interests.
The Court's framework for professional conduct promotes the credibility of the information presented to its audience.
3 ISSAI 30 and ISSAI 40.
32 TOWARDS THE COURT'S NEW STRATEGY FOR 20132017 2011 saw the start of the development of the next strategy, building on the achievements of the current strategy, which will end in 2012.
The Court takes the opportunity to adapt to EU and audit developments and to take into account the needs and expectations of its audience.
Members of the European Court of Auditors
MEASURING THE COURT'S PERFORMANCE IN 2011 33 Since 2008, the Court has progressively developed a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to: o inform management on progress towards the implementation of the 2009-2012 objectives; o to support the decision-making process; o to provide the target group with performance-related information.
The indicators are designed to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, paying particular attention to the perspective of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
2011 is the second year that all indicators were available.
The Court continues to be encouraged by the results of its key performance indicators, particularly when it comes to the quality and impact of its audit work.
In addition, the indicators clearly show where progress is needed and where issues need to be addressed in order to improve performance in the future.
2010 2011 4.2 4.0 ≥ 4.2 3.7 3.7 ≥ 3.7 Key users' assessments of the quality and impact of the Court's reports 2011 target Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the audited bodies The result shows that the main users of the Court's reports rate them as 'good' on average.
In particular, the clarity and usefulness of the reports and the professionalism of the Court's auditors are appreciated.
34 EXPERT REVIEWS Two external bodies reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports published in 2011.
The auditors assessed four special reports and the 2010 annual reports on the general budget and the EDFs.
They rated the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-point scale from “seriously impaired” (1) to “high” (4).
2010 2011 3.0 2.8 ≥ 3.0 Target for 2011 External expert reviews of the content and presentation of the Court's reports The result shows that the reviewers consider the quality of the Court's reports to be 'satisfactory'.
The reviews provided valuable insights and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports.
FOLLOW-UP TO RECOMMENDATIONS The Court's recommendations help to improve financial management.
The indicator is based on the recommendations in the annual and special reports published in 2011.
2010 2011 90% 93% ≥ 90% Target for 2011 Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the auditee In 2011 the Court started to systematically monitor the implementation of the recommendations by the auditees.
From 2012, the Court can report on the extent to which the recommendations are being put into practice and making improvements.
EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF RESOURCE USE The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources in terms of its ability to submit reports and audit findings in a timely manner, to fulfill its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and professional competence of its staff.
TIMELINESS OF REPORTS The Court aims to adopt all audit reports within the set deadlines.
Deadlines laid down in legal regulations must be observed for the annual reports and special annual reports.
For special reports that do not have a statutory publication date, the planned acceptance date is used as a measure of timeliness.
35 4 2010 90% Number of reports adopted on time 80% 2011 83% 90% 75% 90% Overall, in 2011 the Court did not fully meet its targets.
The very high target for the number of reports was not met, but the overall target of 12-15 special reports per year was exceeded and the output was higher than in 2010.
All annual reports and, with one exception, all special annual reports were accepted as planned and published on time.
4 The targets for these indicators have been changed from 100% (2008-2010) to 90% to take account of unexpected events.
TIMELINESS OF AUDIT FINDINGS Audit communications detail specific audit findings and are produced following audit visits to Member States or the Commission.
The Court uses them to have the audited entities confirm the accuracy of its findings. Audit notifications are therefore an important stage in the audit process.
The Court has previously found that there is room for significant improvement in the production of the audit notes in relation to timeliness. The target to be reached by the end of 2012 is to produce 80% of the audit communications within two months of the relevant audit visit.
2010 2011 Percentage of audit communications on time 54% 58% Target for 20114 Number of reports accepted vs. planned reports Target for 2011 80% by 2012 The Court improved the timeliness of audit communications in 2011, but the target was met not reached yet.
Significant progress has been made over the past three years (in 2008 only 27% of audit communications were timely) and the Court will continue to strive to improve its performance.
36 EXTERNAL EVALUATION OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court aims to obtain an unqualified opinion on the accounts and use of resources from its independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament following a favorable recommendation from the Council.
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING In line with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court aims to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training (excluding language courses).
LEVELS OF STAFF SATISFACTION In an internal staff satisfaction survey carried out in 2009, 86 % of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their job, with an overall staff satisfaction level of 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4. Any score above 2.5 indicates overall satisfaction.
The Court aims to maintain or improve on this result when a similar survey is carried out in 2012.
SUPPORT TO AUDIT ACTIVITIES The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its technical services.
These services provide the logistical and professional/technical know-how that enables the Court to: o recruit, retain and motivate its staff and develop their professional skills; o to disseminate the exam results in all official EU languages; o make the best possible use of information technology; o manage its budget and maintain its infrastructure; o Carry out on-the-spot verification visits to the countries where EU funds are collected and spent.
37 STAFF ALLOCATION OF STAFF The Court's most important asset is its staff.
As at 31 December 2010, the Court had 887 staff (officials and temporary agents but excluding members, contract agents, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 564 work in audit chambers (including 123 staff in Members' offices), 148 in the Translation Directorate, 148 in administrative support services and 27 in the President's services.
With a view to the goal of the best possible use of resources, in 2011 possibilities for increasing efficiency by simplifying procedures were again explored and implemented in all departments.
Wherever possible, posts freed up by efficiency gains outside audit have been transferred to the audit service, accounting for more than half of the 12.6% increase in audit posts since 2008.
Distribution of Court posts at 31 December 2008 2009 2010 2011 Audit 501 525 557 564 Translation 163 163 151 148 Administration 173 171 157 148 Services of the President 20 21 24 27 Total 857 880 889 887
38 RECRUITMENTS The Court's staff come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds and the quality of their work and commitment is reflected in the Court's output.
The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
Open competitions for posts at the Court are organized by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Court also provides for a limited PROPORTION OF MEN AND WOMEN Like the other EU institutions, the Court applies an equal opportunities policy in its human resources and recruitment policies.
After steadily increasing the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now achieved a gender balance among its staff.
In 2011, the Court recruited 75 staff: 23 officials, 24 temporary agents and 28 contract agents.
In particular, the Court succeeded in recruiting new staff for auditor posts.
As of December 31, 2011, there were 25 vacancies - significantly fewer than in 2010 (44).
As a result, the rate of vacancies fell below 3% for the first time.
2001 2011 Men 54% 50% Women 46% 50% The chart below shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as of December 31, 2011.
Of the 65 directors and heads of unit, 18 (28%) are women, which is in line with the trend over the last few years.
However, most of them work in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative services.
After the last waves of recruitment, 45% of staff in grades AD5 to AD8 are women.
AGE PROFILE The age profile of active staff at 31 December 2010 shows that 60 % of the Court's staff are aged 44 or younger.
Age 20-24 0.0% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 23 of the 65 Directors and Heads of Unit are aged 55 or over.
As a result, there will be significant renewal in senior management positions over the next five to ten years.
39 3.8% 16.3% 20.7% 19.2% 17.5% 11.5% 7.6% 3.4% PROFESSIONAL TRAINING The auditing profession requires constant training to keep up with new developments can and acquire new skills.
In 2011, the Court's staff completed an average of 9.3 days of professional development.
Language courses accounted for 54% of the total number of training days (compared to 57% in 2010).
In addition to language courses, auditors completed 6.1 days of professional development in 2011, thereby meeting an important objective of the institution.
In 2011, improvements were made to the content of the training measures and new courses were developed to meet the priorities in the examination area.
The Court has also streamlined the management system for training activities.
TRANSLATION Translation is an important audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfill its mandate and achieve its communication goals.
In 2011, the translation volume was comparable to the workload of 2010.
Over 99% of the translation services were rendered on time.
In 2011, further posts and employees were transferred from the Translation Directorate to the Audit Service.
The Court's Translation Directorate also provided valuable linguistic support to auditors on missions and in the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
In addition, the Directorate for Translation provided support to the INTOSAI Contact Committee, working groups, and other specific needs related to the Court's audit work.
In addition, the Court's Translation Directorate actively participated in interinstitutional and international technical fora.
40 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology (IT) plays a key role in achieving the overall objectives of the Court's strategy for 2009-2012.
In 2011 the Court took the following actions: o increased its investment in knowledge management by initiating the development of a new version of the audit support tool (project called 'Assyst2') based on the recently established collaborative platform; o actively pursuing its efforts to streamline internal processes through electronic workflows in areas such as mission and training management, and electronic archiving of personnel files to continuously increase efficiency and effectiveness; o Continued support for mobility through the use of smartphones and laptop computers, and launching a project for an extranet, which will also play a key role in facilitating electronic exchanges with a wide range of ECA partners (including auditees, budgetary authority, newly recruited employees, suppliers).
These developments have been carried out while strengthening operational security and emergency preparedness to ensure the required availability and quality of all the Court's IT services.
ADMINISTRATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE The Directorate for Finance and Support Services is responsible for providing the Court's auditors with adequate support in an efficient, effective and timely manner, and for ensuring that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are in place to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2011, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to free up resources to be reallocated to the audit service.
Due to an agreement reached with the budgetary authority (Parliament and Council) at the end of 2008 regarding the financing of the K3 building, a priority activity in 2011 was the construction of the second extension building to the main building of the court.
The construction work was completed during 2011 and the shell was weatherproofed at the end of the year.
Great progress was made in the interior design.
The time and budget framework of the construction project is adhered to.
The court is expected to take possession of the building by the end of 2012, with the moves to take place in the first quarter of 2013.
Analysis carried out in 2009 and 2010 led the Court to conclude that its security objectives could best be achieved and risks managed most efficiently and cost-effectively if reception and security services were provided in-house.
This was achieved in April 2011 by replacing the external security services contractor with a small team of contract staff.
Annual costs will be more than 0.5 million euros lower in 2012 than in 2009.
AUDIT VISITS The Court's audit work requires auditors to travel to the Member States and other beneficiaries of EU funds, as well as to the headquarters of international organizations such as the United Nations.
The purpose of these audit visits is to obtain direct audit evidence.
The visits are usually to central and local authorities involved in approving, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as to the respective final recipients.
Within the EU, the audit visits are often carried out in liaison with the SAIs of the visited Member State.
Audit teams typically consist of two to three examiners and audit trips can take up to two weeks, depending on the nature of the audit and the distance.
AUDIT VISITS IN 2011 34 33 32 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 In 2011 the Court undertook a total of 379 audit visits5 – 343 in Member States and 36 outside the EU – related to audits of the annual reports and specific annual reports and selected audit tasks.
A similar number of audit visits were made to the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
5 This represents the number of Member States and beneficiary countries that received audit visits for each audit task.
In 2010, the corresponding number was 376.
30 41 25 19 19 17 Visits within the EU 15 Total 343 12 12 11 11 Visits outside the EU 10 10 10 Total 36 99 555 44322 32222111111111111111111111 Spain United Kingdom Germany Italy France Belgium Poland Portugal Greece Czech Republic Netherlands Austria Hungary Finland Ireland Romania Denmark Sweden Latvia Slovenia Luxembourg Slovakia Bulgaria Cyprus Malta Switzerland Serbia Burkina Faso Israel Malawi Tanzania Albania Barbados Benin Cameroon Chad Congo Croatia East Timor Georgia Guyana Kazakhstan Mozambique Nicaragua Nigeria Norway Philippines Senegal Tunisia Vietnam Zambia
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court is funded from the general budget of the EU.
Its budget accounts for around 0.1% of total EU spending and less than 2% of total administrative expenditure.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET 2011 43 FINANCIAL YEAR 2011 Final appropriations Commitments % use of appropriations (commitments/ appropriations allocated) Payments (1 000 euros) Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and servants Time 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions Total Title 1 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenses 12 817 87 382 3 820 2 827 1 530 108 376 5 913 4 702 691 265 570 733 12 874 121 250 13 411 95 416 4 205 3 652 2 485 119 169 12 952 87 624 3 864 3 417 2 115 109 972 97% 92% 92% 94% 85% 92% 98% 100% 91% 89% 84% 88% 97% 93.97% % 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure for Members and staff of the institution 20 - Building 210 - Informatics and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and associated expenses 23 - Current administrative expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and Publications 14 171 6 500 816 542 893 2 240 25 162 144 331 13 915 6 500 746 482 753 1 969 24 365 134 337 Title 2 total Court of Auditors total
44 In 2011, the implementation rate of the total available budget was 93%.
For Title 1, this rate is 92%, with the lowest (85%) in Chapter 16 (Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution).
For Title 2, the average fill rate is 97%.
The amount of the payments from Chapter 20 (Buildings) is contingent on the work to construct the K3 Building.
The third financing tranche of 7 million euros for this project was included in the 2011 budget; this amount was committed and partially paid out in 2011.
The remainder of the appropriations for the K3 building were carried over to 2012 to finance contracts awarded by the project manager to contractors on behalf of the Court.
The funds will be used as indicated by the Court in its 2008 application to the European Parliament and the Council.
The construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of 79 million euros, to be financed over five consecutive years: 55 million euros in 2009; 11 million euros in 2010; 7 million euros in 2011 and 3 million euros each in 2012 and 2013.
2012 BUDGET Appropriations in the 2012 budget decreased by 1.28% compared to 2011, mainly due to lower appropriations for the K3 building.
Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary agents 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution Title 1 as a whole Title 2: Building, furniture, equipment and various material expenses 14 592 96 4 173 3 802 121 736 941 837 525 793 2 142 477 12 95 957 3 652 118 849 14 611 6 500 816 422 893 2 240 25 482 144 331 45 BUDGET 2012 2011 (1 000 euros) 20 - Building 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and associated costs 23 - Current administrative expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Court of Auditors as a whole Title 2 as a whole
46 AUDIT AND ACCOUNTABILITY INTERNAL AUDIT The role of the Internal Audit Service is to provide independent and objective assurance and advice designed to add value and improve the Court's activities.
It supports the Court in the achievement of the institution's objectives by applying a systematic and rigorous approach to assessing and making recommendations to improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
In carrying out its task, the Internal Audit Service acts in accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, the legislation applicable to EU officials and the International Standards of Internal Auditing Practice.
In 2009, the Court's internal audit service was audited and certified in accordance with the internationally recognized standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE COURT The annual accounts of the European Court of Auditors are audited by an independent auditor.
This is a core part of the Court's efforts to ensure that it applies to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the entities it audits.
In 2011, the Court's internal audit service issued reports on: the implementation of the Court's strategy for the period 2009-2012; Implementation of the key performance indicators; construction of the Court's new K3 building; Using the escrow account to make payments to Eligible Beneficiaries; Follow-up to previous recommendations.
The internal audit service fully assisted the Court's independent auditor in his audit of the Court's accounts and the effectiveness of its internal control procedures.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee advises on internal audit matters and oversees the related internal control environment as part of the institution's risk management processes.
In 2011, the Internal Audit Committee and the Internal Auditor analyzed the results of the internal audit service's audits, the implementation of the action plans affecting the internal control environment and the risks to the governance of the institution.
The auditor's report - PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL - on the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2010 was published in September 20116.
47 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S OPINIONS  FINANCIAL YEAR 2010 ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: “In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors at 31 December 2010 and of the cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 of June 25, 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 2342/2002 of December 23, 2002 with implementing provisions for the above Council Regulation and the accounting regulations of the European Union ." REGARDING USE OF RESOURCES AND CONTROL PROCEDURES: "During the work steps described in this report, we have not encountered any circumstances from which we would have to conclude that, in all material respects and taking into account the assessment criteria mentioned, a) the funds allocated to the Court are not for the intended purposes ver were used and b) the established control procedures do not offer the necessary guarantee that the financial transactions were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
48 DECLARATION OF THE AUTHORIZING OFFICER BY DELEGATION The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, in his capacity as Authorizing Officer by Delegation, hereby declare o that the information contained in this report is true and accurate, and o certifies with reasonable assurance that – the appropriations earmarked for the activities described in this report have been provided, have been used for their intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that - the control procedures put in place provide the necessary assurance that the transactions underlying the accounts are legal and regular and that they are dealt with appropriately provide allegations or suspicions of fraud.
This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as e.g. B. the results of the ex-post controls, the reports of the internal auditor and the opinions of the independent auditor for previous financial years.
Luxembourg, March 8th, 2012 Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary General
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the European Union, based in Luxembourg.
The Court of Auditors acts as a collegiate body of 27 members, with one member from each Member State.
Its members are appointed by the Council for a six-year term after consultation with the European Parliament.
The members elect a president from among their number for three years, with the possibility of re-election.
The court is organized by chambers to which the members are assigned.
The Chambers prepare reports and opinions for adoption by the Court.
Audit Chambers I to IV cover various revenue and expenditure areas, while the fifth, CEAD Chamber, is responsible for horizontal matters.
The chambers are supported by examination directorates.
Since the amendment of the Court's Rules of Procedure in 2010, certain categories of Court reports and opinions can be adopted by chambers rather than by the Court's entire College.
The Management Committee is chaired by the President and is composed of the Dean of the Chambers and the Secretary-General (responsible for the Court's administrative and support services).
The Committee has a coordinating role and prepares the Court's decisions on strategic planning, performance management and administrative matters.
Each member is responsible for specific tasks, primarily in the field of auditing.
The members submit audit proposals and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible to the relevant Chamber and the Court.
Once a report has been adopted, it is presented by the "Rapporteur Member" to the European Parliament, the Council and other relevant stakeholders.
Members are assisted by their cabinet staff and the team of auditors assigned to the audit task. 49
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2011 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2012 – 49 pp. – 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693
WHERE CAN I GET EU PUBLICATIONS? Free publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the representations and delegations of the European Union.
QJ-AA-12-001-DE-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu www.eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorsECA ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9
ISSN 1684-0666 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2012 ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT DE
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2013 ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 © European Union, 2013 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2012
3 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS MISSION MISSION VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing the EU finances under the Treaty.
As the EU's external auditor, it helps improve EU financial management, promotes accountability and transparency and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
INDEPENDENCE, INTEGRITY AND IMPARTIALITY PROFESSIONALITY ADDED VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its collaborators.
Maintaining a high and exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of public auditing at EU level and worldwide.
Produce relevant, timely, high-quality reports that are based on sound evidence and evidence, address the needs of its audience, and contain important and meaningful statements.
Contribute to effectively improving the management of the EU budget and contribute to increasing accountability for the management of EU funds.
Promoting team spirit through effective communication.
5 Contents page 6 Foreword of President 8 2012 on a look 9 Our activities 9 Examination reports and statements 30 Cooperation with other top invoice control authorities 34 Our management 35 Change in the college of the court 36 measurement data for the performance of the court 44 Support of the examination activities 49 Financial information 52 Exam and accountability 53 DECLARATION BY THE AUTHORIZING OFFICER BY DELEGATION 54 35 YEARS DEDICATED TO MAKING THE EU BETTER FUNCTIONING 6 FOREWORD BY THE PRESIDENT Welcome to the European Court of Auditors' Annual Activity Report 2012!
In 2012, a major focus of our work was to prepare the Union for the major financial management challenges after 2013.
At the beginning of the year, the Court adopted its opinion on some proposed regulations relating to the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), arguably the most well-known EU policy.
The draft regulation was part of the package of legislative proposals related to the Multiannual Financial Framework for 2014-2020.
With a series of opinions and reports published in 2012, the Court actively contributed to strengthening the new rules that will govern EU revenue and expenditure over this period.
In addition, in 2012 we continued to closely monitor the impact of EU economic governance developments on public accountability and auditing.
That year the treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism entered into force and the Audit Committee of this new body, which includes a representative of the Court, held its first meeting.
In December 2012, the Council of the European Union agreed its position on the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism to ensure the supervision of euro area credit institutions and the Court provided EU policymakers with its position on public accountability and financial control.
Many changes in the area of economic governance and the EU budget result from the need to achieve better policy outcomes with fewer public resources, while at the same time increasing democratic legitimacy and accountability.
The Court's unique powers and perspective combined with the audit experience and partnerships it has built up over its 35-year history are well placed to help the EU meet these challenges.
Building on our achievements in recent years, our aim is to maximize our contribution to improving EU accountability over the period 2013-2017.
The farm is currently celebrating its 35th anniversary.
Europe has changed fundamentally since the Court began its work in 1977.
The layout of the Court and the way it conducts its trials reflect these changes.
The Court's audit scope has expanded with the accession of new Member States, the transfer of competences to the Union and the creation of numerous bodies at EU level.
The Court has also grown as a body, from nine members and 120 staff in 1977 to 27 members and almost 900 staff in 2012.
This growth has enabled the Court to build a professional, dedicated and experienced workforce.
2012 was the last year covered by the Court's strategy for the period 2009-2012.
The Court recorded encouraging results over this period.
As evidenced by this Annual Activity Report, output has increased, external experts rate the quality of our reports as good, and key institutional stakeholders find them useful.
The level of acceptance of the Court's recommendations by the Commission has remained consistently high and the Court's new follow-up report highlights the positive impact of the recommendations.
The Court can also demonstrate efficiency gains in administration and translation, which led to 40 additional staff being deployed in the audit area at the end of the period.
In order to achieve the 2013-2017 targets, the Court will prioritize products to improve EU accountability and develop and expand its partnerships, professionalism and efficiency.
In 2013, an international peer review team will examine the Court's performance audit practice and follow up on the results of the previous peer review of 2008.
Other key actions to be launched in 2013 include streamlining the Court's reporting processes and making even better use of our collective knowledge, expertise and expertise.
With these and other initiatives, we aim to help the EU address its growing public accountability and audit challenges in the coming years.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 7
8 2012 AT A GLANCE OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds for the financial year 2011, in which clarity and information have been improved. o 50 special annual reports on the different EU agencies, decentralized bodies and agencies for the financial year 2011. o 25 special reports on specific budget areas or management issues. o 9 opinions with contributions on budgetary reforms such as the reform of the common agricultural policy and on a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Union by means of criminal law.
OUR MANAGEMENT o Adoption of a new strategy for 2013-2017, which will guide the Court's work during this period, with the aim of maximizing the value of the Court's contribution to EU public accountability. o Our key performance indicators for the period 2008-2012 show improved performance; for the first time, they measure the proportion of our recommendations that have been implemented. o The evolution of staff policy and the continued devolution of posts to the audit service through efficiencies in administration and translation have enhanced the Court's ability to carry out its mandate. o The construction work on the K3 building – the second extension of the farm – has been completed so that the entire staff of the farm can be housed in one location. The members of the Court at a meeting
9 OUR ACTIVITIES AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: o Annual Reports - containing the results of its financial and compliance audits on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Funds (EDFs); in addition, specific annual reports on EU agencies, decentralized bodies and agencies are published separately; o Special Reports – which may be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits on specific budget or management areas; these are mainly performance audits; o Opinions on draft legal acts affecting financial management and statements and position papers on other issues at the Court's own initiative.
Since 2008, the number of the Court's special annual reports and special reports has increased significantly.
The annual reports have also been further developed: more analytical information is now available, the presentation of the data has been more harmonized to facilitate comparison both between domains and over time, and a new chapter on performance-related questions has been added.
The significant increase in opinions issued is due to the fact that the Court was consulted on the large legislative proposals related to the new financial framework (2014-2020).
Number of reports and opinions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Annual specific reports on EU agencies and decentralized bodies 29 37 40 42 50 Special reports 12 18 14 16 25 Opinions and other communications 5 1 6 8 10 TOTAL 48 58 62 68 87 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in 22 official EU languages.
10 AUDIT VISITS IN 2012 While the vast majority of audit work takes place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also visit the EU institutions, agencies and decentralized bodies, Member State authorities and other beneficiaries of EU funds ( also at the headquarters of international organizations such as the United Nations in Switzerland).
The audit visits usually target central and local authorities involved in approving, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as the respective final recipients.
Within the EU, the audit visits are often carried out in liaison with the SAIs of the Member States visited.
Audit teams usually consist of two to three examiners and the duration of an audit trip can range from a few days to two weeks, depending on the type of audit and the distance.
In 2012, the Court's auditors spent 6 816 days on-site – 6 054 in Member States and 762 outside the EU – and obtained audit evidence for the annual reports, the specific annual reports and the selected tasks.
They spent a similar amount of time with the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 On-site investigator days 2012 00 Spain France United Kingdom Poland Italy Germany Greece Romania Portugal Netherlands Czech Republic Hungary Lithuania Luxembourg Denmark Austria Sweden Slovenia Bulgaria Latvia Finland Ireland Belgium Estonia Slovakia Malta Cyprus Uzbekistan Russia USA Norway Morocco Namibia Ukraine Guatemala Turkey Kyrgyzstan Switzerland Kosovo Senegal Ethiopia Cameroon Serbia Indonesia Egypt Zambia Israel Congo
11 Highlights of the Annual Report 2011 o The annual accounts for the financial year 2011 fairly present the financial position of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year concerned.
Revenue and commitments were not affected by material error.
However, the payments were affected by a material level of error, with the estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole being 3.9%.
This error rate is comparable to that of 2010, which was 3.7%. o All individually assessed areas of EU spending are affected by a material level of error, with the exception of external relations, external assistance and enlargement, and administrative expenditure.
This shows that improvements are still needed in the management of EU funds. o The Court's estimated error rate for spending on rural development, environment, fisheries and health (the most error-prone spending area) was 7.7%.
The estimated level of error for the policy group regional policy, energy and transport remained high at 6.0%. o Commission reservations have increased, with the amount considered at risk by Commission Directors-General increasing from €0.4 billion in 2010 to €2.0 billion in 2011.
This is because the Commission has recognized the existence of a high risk of error in some areas, notably rural development, cohesion and research. o Overall, the control systems examined are only partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments and do not prevent or detect and correct errors to the extent that it would be reasonably possible.
Many cases were identified where the controls failed. o The Commission's self-assessment of its performance has evolved, with welcome improvements compared to previous years.
Nonetheless, our 2011 performance audits found that good quality needs assessments are often lacking, weaknesses in program design hamper reporting of results and impacts and the need for the Commission to demonstrate European added value.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2011 The Court devoted most of its financial and compliance audits during 2012 to the implementation of the EU budget for 2011.
The 2011 annual report resulting from this work was published on November 6, 2012.
The objective of the annual report is to help the European Parliament, the Council and citizens to assess the quality of EU financial management and to recommend useful improvements by providing findings and conclusions.
The 18th annual Statement of Assurance ("DAS") on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions is the core element of the annual reports for the financial year 2011.
Two new chapters have been added to the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2011, providing more focused results for the areas of agriculture and cohesion.
The former chapter on agriculture and natural resources has been replaced by the chapters 'Agriculture: market support and direct payments' and 'Rural development, environment, fisheries and health'.
In addition, the separate chapters "Regional Policy, Energy and Transport" and "Employment and Social Affairs" replace the former chapter on Cohesion, Energy and Transport.
12 EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUNDS ANNUAL REPORT 2011 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are financed by the EU Member States but managed outside the EU budget. They are subject to their own financial regulations.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of measures financed from EDF funds.
Through the European Development Funds (EDFs), the European Union provides development cooperation assistance to the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCT) countries, on the basis of the 2000 Agreement Cotonou Agreement.
This spending is aimed at reducing and eventually eradicating poverty, in line with the goals of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the ACP and OCT countries into the world economy.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars, namely development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension.
The Court's 2011 annual report on the EDFs was published in parallel with the annual report on the EU budget on 6 November 2012.
The Court found that the 2011 accounts of the EDFs fairly present the financial position of the EDFs and the results of their operations and cash flows.
However, 33% of EDF transactions were affected by errors, including an estimated 5.1% rate of payments affected by error.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS ON EU AGENCIES, DECENTRALIZED BODIES AND AGENCIES FOR 2011 In 2012, the Court published 50 special annual reports, mostly covering the financial year 2011, on the agencies, decentralized bodies (e.g. Joint Undertakings) and other bodies of the EU EU.
The EU agencies and decentralized bodies are set up on the basis of EU legal acts to carry out specific tasks.
President Caldeira presenting the Annual Report 2011 to the plenary session of the European Parliament (November 2012)
SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2012 In addition to its annual reports, the Court publishes special reports throughout the year containing the results of the performance and compliance audits that the Court carries out on specific budget areas or management issues of its choice.
In selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court aims to achieve maximum impact, thereby making the best use of its resources.
When selecting the topics, the Court takes into account the following factors: o the risks to profitability or compliance with legal standards in the area of revenue or expenditure concerned; o the amount of the respective income or expenses; o the time elapsed since a previous test; o forthcoming developments within the relevant legal framework; o the political and public interest.
In 2012, the Court adopted 25 special reports covering a wide range of topics.
This is a significant increase from the 16 special reports adopted in 2011 (and 12 in 2008).
All special reports are available in full in 22 EU languages on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu or through the EU Bookshop.
The following pages present the subjects of the special reports adopted in 2012, each under the relevant headings of the 2013-2017 financial framework – the EU's multiannual budgetary programme.
14 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK - SUSTAINABLE GROWTH EU spending on sustainable growth covers two areas: Competitiveness involves promoting research and technological development, connecting Europe through EU networks, education and training, promoting competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social policy agenda and the decommissioning of nuclear facilities.
EU spending for the period 2007-2013 for growth and jobs amounts to €89.4 billion, ie 9.2% of the EU budget, of which almost two thirds goes to research and development.
Cohesion for growth and jobs mainly concerns the cohesion policy implemented through funds dedicated to specific areas of activity: European Social Fund (ESF), European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and Cohesion Fund (CF).
The EU budget for cohesion for the period 2007-2013 is €348.4 billion or 35.7% of the total EU budget.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Financial instruments for SMEs co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (No. 2/2012) - This special report examined the efficiency and effectiveness of the 2000-2006 and 2007 programming periods - Financial engineering measures co-financed by the ERDF evaluated in 2013. The audit covered a sample of projects in Germany, Portugal, Slovakia, Hungary and the UK and also included an examination of the management, monitoring and information systems of the Commission and the Member States.
The Court concluded that the effectiveness and efficiency of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) spending on financial instruments in favor of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) has been hampered because the regulatory framework does not have an adequate basis for the use of the different Types of financial instruments bot.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of the EU economy, providing jobs, innovation and prosperity.
However, SMEs may not be able to meet their financial needs in the form and amount they need.
To support them, the EU uses its enterprise and cohesion policies, mainly in the form of grants, and increasingly in the ERDF framework through financial instruments.
Financial instruments are redeemable, revolving instruments.
According to the figures provided by the Commission, the ERDF allocations for financial instruments are 1.6 billion euros and 10.4 billion euros for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods, respectively.
o Structural Funds - Has the Commission effectively responded to weaknesses identified in Member States' management and control systems?
(3/2012) - This special report examined the extent to which the Commission took appropriate corrective action, ensured its timely implementation and had reasonable assurance that its action would result in appropriate financial corrections to past irregularities and improvements in achieved by the systems in order to avoid the recurrence of irregularities.
The audit was primarily based on a review of 40 programs where significant deficiencies had been identified.
The Court found that the Commission was fairly good at ensuring the correct application of financial corrections in relation to the weaknesses in the Member States' management and control systems, but that it was less able to gain assurance that its actions would lead to improvements in the systems of the Member States led.
Expenditure on the Structural Funds is under shared management between the Commission and the Member States.
Member States draw up multiannual programmes, which are examined and approved by the Commission and then implemented by the Member States.
When significant weaknesses are detected in Member States' management and control systems, the Commission endeavors to ensure that irregularities are corrected and systems improved. o Using Structural and Cohesion Funds to co-finance transport infrastructure in seaports: an effective investment?
(No. 4/2012) - This special report assessed the effectiveness of the objectives and outputs of 27 projects co-financed by the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund under the 'Transport infrastructure' reporting code over the period 2000-2006 .
We found that investments in seaport transport infrastructure made under cohesion policy were only effective in 11 of the 27 projects audited.
Maritime transport is the second most important mode of transport in the EU.
The Commission forecasts growth from 3.8 billion tonnes in 2006 to 5.3 billion tonnes in 2018.
Since the year 2000, the EU has made around 6.2 billion euros available from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for the co-financing of the seaport infrastructure.
15 Audit of EU spending on transport
16 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SUSTAINABLE GROWTH o Does structural measures support for municipal waste management infrastructure projects ensure effective support to Member States to achieve EU waste policy objectives?
(No. 20/2012) - This special report evaluated the performance of 26 sampled waste management infrastructure projects. The achievement of the goals of the EU waste policy and the implementation of accompanying measures in the eight regions in which the infrastructures are located were checked.
We found that the effectiveness of EU structural measures support for municipal waste management infrastructure was hampered by poor implementation of accompanying measures and weaknesses in EU legislation and guidelines.
In 2010, each citizen of the 27 EU Member States generated on average around 500 kg of waste which, if not properly collected, treated and disposed of, can have a negative impact on the environment.
The EU has established common standards and targets in the form of directives for municipal waste management and co-finances waste management infrastructure in certain regions.
In the period 2000-2013, the EU earmarked €10.8 billion for waste management infrastructure. o Cost-effectiveness of investments in energy efficiency under Cohesion Policy (No. 21/2012) - This special report assessed whether investments in energy efficiency under Cohesion Policy were cost-effective by examining whether the planning and financing took into account the the right conditions were in place to enable cost-effective energy efficiency investments and whether the energy efficiency projects implemented in public buildings were cost-effective.
We found that the average payback period for EU investments in energy efficiency is more than 50 years (up to 150 years in extreme cases). This means that funds could be used more cost-effectively for these types of investments.
The costs of increased energy consumption, depletion of fossil fuel reserves and the impact of human activity on global climate change are driving recent EU policies to increase energy efficiency.
The European Union has spent nearly €5 billion on co-financing energy efficiency measures in Member States since 2000 as part of the cohesion policy. o Has the revitalization of brownfield sites and military sites been successfully promoted within the framework of EU structural measures?
(No 23/2012) - This special report examined whether the project objectives were met, whether the targeting of EU funding was based on sound criteria and whether the results achieved were achieved at the lowest possible cost to the EU budget.
We audited the performance of 27 brownfield regeneration projects using EU co-funding totaling €231 million and analyzed the brownfield regeneration tools that frame the specific co-funded actions in Germany, Poland , the Czech Republic, Hungary and the United Kingdom.
(The conclusions of this special report are scheduled for publication on April 18, 2013.)
In the past few decades, more and more derelict industrial and military land (so-called “wasteland”) has become available.
Many brownfields are contaminated.
The revitalization and reuse of brownfield sites is funded within the framework of EU structural measures with the aim of protecting human health and the environment and counteracting urban sprawl.
EU funding for this area totaled 5.7 billion euros in the years 2000-2013.
o Response of the European Union Solidarity Fund to the 2009 Abruzzo earthquake: Relevance and cost of actions (n°24/2012) - This special report assessed whether the actions funded were in compliance with the EUSF Regulation and whether the "CASE" construction project, which accounted for the bulk of the expenditure, was well planned and designed and carried out with due attention to the aspect of economy.
We found that while the other funded projects were eligible, the CASE project was not in compliance with the EUSF Regulation.
Weaknesses were also noted in the planning of the CASE project and in ensuring the economy of its implementation.
The 2009 earthquake, centered in the Italian region of Abruzzo, caused more than 10 billion euros in damage.
The European Union supported the Italian disaster response with a contribution of 0.5 billion euros from its solidarity fund, which was used for rescue operations, the provision of emergency shelters and makeshift schools and the CASE project to build earthquake-proof houses.
L'Aquila Cathedral in Italy almost four years after the 2009 earthquake o Are there tools to monitor the effectiveness of European Social Fund spending on older workers?
(25/2012) - This special report has examined whether and to what extent Member States and the Commission have developed and implemented adequate tools to assess the achievement of the targets for older workers.
Six programs worth €222 million were selected. The programs concerned four Member States: Germany, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
The Court found that neither the Member States nor the Commission can say to what extent the measures supported by the ESF actually benefited older workers.
From 2007 to the end of 2013, the ESF will spend more than €75 billion to support Member States in the area of employment, representing around 8% of the total EU budget.
One of the most important disadvantaged groups are older workers.
17 Newly built earthquake-proof housing in L'Aquila, Italy
18 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES The EU has high political responsibilities in the areas of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 is €413.1 billion, ie 42.3% of the total EU budget.
Three-quarters of spending concerns direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) - the 'first pillar' of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
Another fifth of spending goes to rural development support, funded by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second 'pillar' of the CAP.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Reform of the common organization of the market in wine: progress made so far (7/2012) - This special report assessed progress towards one of the key objectives of the wine reform, namely progress in achieving a better balance between supply and demand.
The focus of the audit was on the measures 'grubbing-up premium' and 'restructuring and conversion of vineyards', which are the two main areas of expenditure and are crucial to achieving the objective of achieving a better balance between supply and demand.
We found that these two measures contradicted each other and that the structural oversupply was not significantly reduced.
For the three-year period of application of the clearing measure (2008/2009 to 2010/2011), the EU made budget funds totaling 1.1 billion euros available.
EUR 4.2 billion has been allocated for the ten-year period up to 2010 for restructuring and conversion. o Targeting of support for farm modernization (8/2012) - This special report examined whether EU support for farm modernization was targeted to EU priorities and specific needs in Member States .
We found that the farm modernization measure could potentially have been more effective by better targeting funds to meet EU priorities and specific needs in Member States on the one hand and by actually using selection procedures on the other.
This aid concerns the financing of investments in agricultural holdings, which can range from investments in simple items such as farm equipment or wooden crates for fruit to investments in complex projects such as biogas plants.
The EU budget for this support (which comes from the EAFRD) totals €11.1 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period, representing around 11% of all EU spending budgeted for rural development. o Audit of the control system governing the production, processing, distribution and importation of organic products (9/2012) - This special report examined whether the control system for organic products provides sufficient assurance to that the key requirements for the production, processing, distribution and import of organic products are met.
It has been examined how the various bodies involved (EU Commission and Member State Competent Authorities, Accreditation Bodies and Control Bodies) have performed their tasks within the EU and in the management of import regimes.
The Court found that the competent authorities in the Member States encountered difficulties in ensuring the traceability of organic products. Added to this were weaknesses in the system which need to be addressed in order to provide reasonable assurance that the system is working effectively and to ensure that consumer confidence is not undermined.
The aim of the EU legal framework for organic production is to create a basis for the sustainable development of organic production, to ensure fair conditions of competition, to protect consumer interests and at the same time to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market.
A control system has been set up, as part of which every entrepreneur in the supply chain is checked and certified. o Direct aids for suckler cows and ewes and goats under the partial implementation of the single payment scheme (No. 11/2012) - This special report examined whether the aid was targeted at the most relevant regions in the Member States, whether it was relevant in terms of maintaining a specific production and therefore effective in preventing negative social, economic and environmental impacts and whether it has been subject to proper monitoring and evaluation by the Commission and the Member States.
We found that direct CAP support for dam herds does not deliver better results than decoupled support.
Following the 2003 CAP reform, agricultural aid that was previously granted in the form of direct payments linked to the production of specific agricultural products (so-called "coupled" aid) should no longer be linked to production (i.e., they have been decoupled).
However, some exemptions from full decoupling have been provided for specific sectors and regions to limit the potential negative impact of an immediate move to such a regime.
The budget funds available for this direct aid for 2011 totaled 1.0 billion euros.
19 On-the-spot audit of a beneficiary farm in Spain
20 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK - CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES o Implementation of EU hygiene rules in the slaughterhouses of the countries that have joined the EU since 2004 (n°14/2012) - This special report examined whether the Commission and those concerned Member States have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the slaughterhouses have made the appropriate adjustments to EU hygiene rules.
The monitoring, the orientation support, the implementation and the financing of the measures to comply with the hygiene regulations were checked.
We examined slaughterhouses in Poland, Romania, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary that had received EU funds.
While the Court found that the systems put in place by the Commission and the competent authorities to monitor hygiene rules were overall adequate, the audit revealed a number of weaknesses in the implementation of these systems, which underscore the need for greater rigor at all levels to mitigate risks.
The Member States that joined the EU since 2004 have had to ensure that their slaughterhouses comply with EU hygiene rules.
As these rules generally contained much stricter requirements than the respective national rules, EU funds were made available to help slaughterhouses to comply with hygiene rules and modernize them.
Around EUR 117 million has been allocated to 241 slaughterhouses under the special pre-accession program for agriculture and rural development (Sapard programme).
Funding then continued under the EAGGF and EAFRD. o Effectiveness of the SAPS scheme as a transitional system to support farmers in the new Member States (No. 16/2012) - This special report has examined the main weaknesses, such as payments to beneficiaries who have no (or only a marginal) agricultural engaged in activities, payments for land abandoned or used for non-agricultural activities, payments to government bodies, and aid concentrated in a few large beneficiaries.
We found that some of the aid was paid to beneficiaries with only marginal or no agricultural activity, including public bodies, and that the distribution of the aid did not take into account the regional specificities of the agricultural activity, nor the farmers' contribution to production public goods.
In addition, the vast majority of farmers receive only very small amounts of aid.
The SAPS is a simplified income support scheme for farmers in the Member States that have joined the EU since 2004.
In 2011 payments amounted to around 5 billion euros.
HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK - FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE In 2012 the Court adopted the following special report in this area: o Do the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund contribute effectively to the integration of third-country nationals?
(No. 22/2012) - This special report assessed whether the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund, which are part of the EU's General Program "Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows" for the period 2007-2013 (SOLID), are effective for integration of third-country nationals into the EU, whether the results were supported by efficient monitoring and evaluation of the programme, whether the design of the funds contributed to the effective implementation of the funds, and whether the systems for implementing integration measures under the SOLID program are working properly were managed.
The Court found that while positive results could be observed for individual projects audited, inadequate systems had been put in place to measure the success of the funds.
The effectiveness of the funds was reduced by the design of the program and there was insufficient coordination with other EU funds.
The EU promotes measures to integrate third-country nationals in EU Member States and increases solidarity by sharing the financial burdens of managing common external borders and implementing common policies in the areas of asylum and immigration.
Expenditure under the EU budget for SOLID is expected to total €4.0 billion over the period 2007-2013.
21 This policy area was established to ensure the free movement of people and to offer citizens a high level of protection.
It ranges from the management of the EU's external borders to judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters.
It covers asylum and immigration policy, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
Spending in this area over the period 2007-2013 is expected to be €12.2 billion. Refugee camp co-financed by the EU
22 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – THE EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER The EU's external relations activities focus on the following areas: enlargement, bringing about stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood, actively supporting sustainable development at international level, promoting global political governance and ensuring strategic and civil security.
The EU has earmarked EUR 55.9 billion for these objectives for the period 2007-2013, ie 5.7% of its total planned expenditure.
Most of the expenditure is managed by the Commission directly through its central services or its delegations.
In 2012, we adopted the following special reports in this area: o Effectiveness of European Union development assistance for food security in sub-Saharan Africa (1/2012) - This special report assessed the effectiveness of EU development assistance in sub-Saharan Africa development assistance for food security provided in the Sahara by analyzing whether EU development assistance for food security is relevant to countries' needs and priorities and whether EU action has been effective.
The audit focused on EU direct development assistance for the three pillars of food security: food availability, access to food and nutritional balance.
We concluded that EU development assistance for food security in sub-Saharan Africa is mostly effective and makes an important contribution to achieving food security.
However, the Commission did not sufficiently consider the possibilities for EU support to other countries also affected by chronic food insecurity and did not give adequate priority to the nutrition aspect.
Food security is a major and persistent problem in sub-Saharan Africa, where hunger affects 30% of the population.
In the period 2002-2010, the EU financed food security measures in this region from the European Development Fund (EDF) for a total of more than 3.2 billion euros. o The Common RELEX Information System (CRIS) (5/2012) - This special report examined whether CRIS had been designed to effectively meet the needs of the Commission and whether the information it provided was reliable .
The audit included a review of the Commission's documentation for CRIS and an examination of the data contained in CRIS.
We concluded that CRIS is mostly effective in meeting the Commission's information needs on external actions.
However, after ten years of development, it still has weaknesses.
CRIS is the information system set up by the Commission to support the management of external actions.
The functions of the system have been continuously expanded since it went into operation in 2002.
It is now the main reference information system for managing, documenting and reporting on external actions and is funded from both the general EU budget and the European Development Funds (EDF).
o European Union assistance to the Turkish Cypriot community (6/2012) - This special report examined whether the Commission prepared an assistance program that was consistent with the objectives of the instrument, whether appropriate implementation modalities were in place and whether the individual projects had their respective achieved target results.
The purpose of the audit was not to assess whether the program had contributed to the achievement of the political goal of reunification.
We found that the program met its objectives as a financial support tool for the Turkish Cypriot community and that, despite significant constraints, it had generally established appropriate modalities.
Some results have already been achieved, but their sustainability is often questionable and the largest project in the program could not be built.
We checked around a third of this amount using our sample of contracts. o European Union development assistance for drinking water and basic sanitation in sub-Saharan Africa (n°13/2012) - This special report examined the Commission's assessment of the EU development assistance to improve drinking water and basic sanitation in sub-Saharan Africa managed to produce effective and sustainable results.
We found that EU support improved access to drinking water and basic sanitation.
On the other hand, less than half of the projects audited satisfactorily met the needs of the beneficiaries and the benefits will only be sustained if non-levy revenues are secured.
Improvements in water and sanitation are critical to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The supply of clean drinking water and sanitary facilities contributes to economic growth and poverty reduction.
EU spending on water and sanitation in sub-Saharan Africa for the period 2001-2010 was around €1.0 billion; as funding for water and sanitation is also earmarked under other areas of assistance, the Commission has provided a higher amount overall.
23 Water kiosk in Jigawa State, Nigeria
24 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK - THE EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER o Contribution of the European Development Fund (EDF) to a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa (n°17/2012) - This special report examined whether the EDF is making an effective contribution to the sustainability of the road network in sub-Saharan Africa, whether EDF-supported road infrastructure is sustainable and whether the Commission has effectively promoted the sustainability of road infrastructure.
The audit focused on the technical, financial and institutional sustainability of road transport infrastructure. 48 programs funded since 1995 under the eighth, ninth and tenth EDFs in six partner countries were audited.
We concluded that the Commission's support for a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa is partially effective.
The partner countries we visited do not make sufficient efforts to ensure the sustainability of road infrastructure, which affects roads to varying degrees from premature wear.
Roads and other transport infrastructure are essential for regional integration, economic growth, social development, effective public administration and security.
In sub-Saharan Africa, road transport is the main mode of transport for passenger and freight transport, accounting for more than 80% of all goods and services traffic, with transport needs growing rapidly.
The EU committed around €7.4 billion in EDF funds in this region over the period 1995-2011. o European Union Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo (No. 18/2012) (see “A close-up of a performance audit”).
Control of a road in Tanzania
25 CLOSE-UP OF A PERFORMANCE AUDIT European Union rule of law assistance to Kosovo Kosovo police and EULEX patrolling the border in Kosovo © EULEX, 2011, photo by Enisa Kasemi As part of our audit of the EU's rule of law assistance to Kosovo, the Court identified for the first time a Common Security Mission and Defense Policy (CSDP) in the limelight.
Kosovo is the world's largest recipient of EU financial assistance per capita and is the site of the largest civilian crisis management operation ever launched by the Union (European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo - EULEX).
The Court's Special Report No 18/2012 examined whether EU assistance to Kosovo in the area of the rule of law was effective.
The audit focused on the four sectors police, judiciary, customs and anti-corruption.
We also examined coordination with other donors and the implementation of EULEX.
Auditing such a complex area presented a challenge.
Four audit visits were carried out in Kosovo.
Officials from EULEX and the European Commission were interviewed, as well as local officials, representatives of the international donor community and civil society organisations.
The audit team examined Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and Instrument for Stability projects, as well as Monitoring, Guidance and Advice (MMA) activities implemented by EULEX.
Meetings were held in Brussels with the Commission, the European External Action Service, the Council Secretariat and NATO.
A panel of experts was also available to assist the Court.
The Court found that EU assistance was not sufficiently effective.
Although the EU has contributed to capacity building, particularly in the customs area, assistance to the police and judiciary has had limited success.
The level of organized crime and corruption in Kosovo remains high.
The judiciary continues to suffer from political interference, inefficiency and a lack of transparency and enforcement.
The limited ability to protect key witnesses within Kosovo and the difficulty in relocating witnesses abroad are significant shortcomings.
In the words of Gijs de Vries, the ECA Member responsible for the report, the Kosovo authorities do not give the rule of law enough priority and EU assistance should be more effective.
Francisco de Miguel Rodriguez, who heads the audit team, says there is no other place in the world like Kosovo where so many international donors could be found to provide capacity-building in such a small area.
The Court concluded that the EU's coordination mechanisms, including coordination with the international community, need improvement.
In contrast to the rest of the Western Balkans, in the case of Kosovo, the incentive of possible EU accession is jeopardized by the lack of a common EU position on its independence.
In terms of communication, this test broke new ground.
It was the ECA's most-cited report of 2012, with more than 130 articles appearing in print and electronic media.
A video summarizing the report was also published on the Court's website.
This was a first for the Court, reflecting its desire to reach a wider audience.
The European Commission and the European External Action Service have accepted the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The report was presented to the European Parliament and Council working groups.
Because of the importance of its findings, the UK House of Lords has decided to deal with the report in detail.
26 EU INSTITUTIONS, AGENCIES AND OTHER BODIES In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: The administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes expenditure on staff (salaries and pensions) as well as on buildings, equipment, energy , communication and information technology.
Total spending for 2007-2013 is €55.9 billion or 5.7% of the total EU budget. o Effectiveness of staff development policies at the European Commission (No 10/2012) - This special report examined whether the Commission aligned the development of its staff to the needs of the organization, provided opportunities for development for its staff, created an environment that motivated staff to develop their skills and apply them in the workplace.
The Commission's annual budget for external trainers and teaching materials in 2010 was EUR 26.6 million. Annual investment in learning and development in 2010 also included 230 000 staff days to attend training and an equivalent of 310 staff to administer and deliver training and career development. o Have the procedures for producing reliable and credible European statistics been improved by the Commission and Eurostat?
(No 12/2012) - This special report assessed whether the procedures for producing reliable and credible statistics have been improved by the Commission and Eurostat.
Improvements are directly linked to compliance with the European Statistics Code of Practice, which sets the standards for the development, production and dissemination of statistics, and to the implementation of the European Statistical Programme.
An assessment of the reliability of specific statistical results did not take place.
The Court found that the Commission and Eurostat have not yet achieved full application of the European Statistics Code of Practice and that Eurostat had not designed the European Statistical Program 2008-2012 as an effective planning, monitoring and accountability tool.
Reliable and credible statistics are essential to carry out the tasks entrusted to the European Union.
Statistics are required in almost all areas in order to formulate, apply, monitor and evaluate the tasks and objectives foreseen in the Treaties. They are also used to collect and allocate EU funds.
European policy decisions are increasingly based directly on statistics, and statistical indicators are increasingly used as triggers for policy decisions or sanctions. o Management of conflicts of interest in selected EU agencies (No. 15/2012) - This special report assessed whether the selected agencies managed conflicts of interest adequately, whether there are adequate policies and procedures for handling conflicts of interest situations and whether the selected agencies have updated their policies and Have adequately implemented procedures for handling conflicts of interest situations.
The audit assessed the policies and procedures for handling conflict of interest situations in the case of four selected agencies that make influential decisions affecting consumer safety and health.
We concluded that the selected EU agencies did not adequately manage conflicts of interest.
FOLLOW-UP OF PREVIOUS RECOMMENDATIONS o Report 2011 on the follow-up of the European Court of Auditors' special reports (No. 19/2012) - This report analyzed the extent to which the recommendations made by the Court in seven selected special reports from the years 2003-2009 are of the Commission have been implemented.
The follow-up special reports related to three budget areas, namely agriculture, energy and external action.
The Court assessed the actions taken by the Commission on the Court's recommendations.
The audit showed that the recommendations had been taken into account: the Commission fully implemented 29% of the analyzed recommendations, 49% were mostly implemented, 20% were partially implemented and 2% were not implemented.
See page 39 for more details on the follow-up to the Court's recommendations.
27 In 2012, the Court published a new type of report, a special report, which follows up on the implementation of recommendations made in previous special reports.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN 2011 REPORT ON THE FOLLOW-UP OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS' SPECIAL REPORTS Special Reports No 19 2012 ISSN 1831-0834
28 OPINIONS AND POSITION PAPERS ISSUED IN 2012 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management through its opinions on proposals for new or amended legislation with a financial impact.
These opinions are issued at the request of the other EU institutions and are used by the legislative authorities - the European Parliament and the Council - in their work.
The opinions are available in full in all official EU languages on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu.
29 OPINION NO. 1/2012 ON THE COMMISSION'S LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS FOR THE REFORM OF THE COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY FROM 2014 ONwards The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is to be reformed by 2013.
In October 2011, the Commission published a proposal containing the main elements of a legal framework for the CAP for the period 2014-2020.
In the new legal framework it was proposed to keep the current two-pillar structure of the CAP and thus the two existing European financial instruments of agricultural policy, namely the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). .
The Court acknowledged the efforts made by the Commission to simplify the provisions of the CAP (e.g. abandonment of the different implementation models in the current SPS, introduction of a simplified scheme for small farmers).
Through its proposals, the Commission has incorporated a number of comments from Parliament, the Council and the Court.
However, the fundamental principles of the legislative proposals remain focused on expenditure and its control, and thus, contrary to the stated intention, still provide compliance with legislation through performance.
The Court noted the Commission's aim to prioritize the payment of CAP support to 'active farmers' and its attempt to achieve a more balanced distribution of direct payments among beneficiaries.
However, the Court doubted that the proposed measures could be implemented effectively without imposing an excessive administrative burden on managing authorities and farmers.
In his view, the solution may lie in a combination of general principles laid down in the regulation and systematic monitoring and expert monitoring of its implementation by the Commission.
He noted that the so-called "capping" (cutting aid that exceeds a certain ceiling) will only have a limited impact on the redistribution of aid.
This opinion had a major impact on reflections on the future of the CAP.
Over 2,000 articles have been published in the media on this subject.
The Court has been invited by a number of NGOs, agricultural fair organizers and other industry forums to present the opinion to their respective audiences. The European Parliament invites representatives of the Court to participate in working groups on this topic.
Members of the European Parliament have incorporated most of the recommendations into their own proposals for legislative changes.
The legislative package will be voted upon adoption of the Multiannual Financial Framework.
30 COOPERATION WITH OTHER SUPREME AUDITS INSTITUTIONS The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) mainly in the following bodies: o Contact Committee of the SAIs of the EU Member States; o Network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; o International organizations of public sector audit bodies, in particular the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its European regional group (EUROSAI).
EU Liaison Officers meeting in Rome, April 2012 INTOSAI Capacity Building Subcommittee meeting in Luxembourg, September 2011
CONTACT COMMITTEE OF SUPREME AUDIT INSTITUTIONS OF THE EU MEMBER STATES 31 In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies work together in a spirit of trust while respecting their independence.
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of the EU Member States through the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee brings together the Presidents of the EU SAIs and the Court once a year.
Working groups and task forces have been set up to support the development of common positions and approaches.
In 2012, the Court assisted the Chair-in-Office of the Contact Committee (SAI of Portugal) in preparing and holding the 2012 Annual Meeting, held on 18 and 19 October 2012 in Estoril (Portugal).
The session had two main themes, namely the challenges for SAIs in preparing for the next EU financial framework (2014-2020) and recent developments in the response to the financial crisis and SAIs' experience with related audits.
At the meeting, the Contact Committee decided to set up a task force to analyze the tasks and role of SAIs, taking into account recent developments in the EU in building a new economic, budgetary and financial architecture and the possible impact on SAIs.
The Court is a member of this task force, which is due to report to the Contact Committee in 2013.
In addition, the Court continued to provide administrative support to the Contact Committee in 2012 and actively participated in the various working groups and networks.
In 2012, we also supported the euro area SAIs' initiative on adequate external public audit of the European Stability Mechanism.
A common position on a proposal for the Statute relating to Article 30 of the Treaty establishing the Mechanism was sent to the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union in April 2012.
The final version of the Statutes is broadly in line with this common position as regards the Audit Committee.
32 NETWORK OF SUPREME AUDIT INSTITUTIONS OF CANDIDATE COUNTRIES AND POTENTIAL CANDIDATE COUNTRIES The Court works with the SAIs of candidate and potential candidate countries.
One of the main tools for cooperation is the Network of SAIs of Candidate and Potential Candidate Countries1, with its organizational structure similar to that of the Contact Committee.
This network includes regular meetings of SAI Presidents and liaison officers, as well as working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits.
In 2012, the Court supported the implementation of the work program that is part of the Istanbul Memorandum of Understanding adopted at the March 2011 meeting of the Network Presidents.
The President of the Court attended the 150th anniversary ceremony of the Turkish Court of Accounts and paid an official visit to the Croatian Court of Accounts.
OTHER AREAS OF COOPERATION In 2012, the Court continued its active participation and contribution to the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI.
In 2012, the Court continued to contribute to INTOSAI's Goal 1 – Professional Standards – as a member of: o the Financial Audit Subcommittee, the Legal Compliance Subcommittee, and the Performance Audit Subcommittee; o the project quality control of examinations as well as the harmonization project.
Contributions to Goal 2 – Capacity Building – of INTOSAI were as follows: o Supported the Subcommittee on Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews and organized the fifth meeting. o He accompanied the work of the subcommittee “Increased support for capacity-building measures of INTOSAI members”.
As part of INTOSAI's Goal 3 – Knowledge Sharing – the Court has chaired the INTOSAI Working Group on Accountability and Auditing of Disaster Relief since 2008.
In 2012, the working group performed the following work: o Prepared the five draft International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAIs) that will form the new 5500-5599 series for guidance on auditing disaster relief; finished and ready for public discussion. o Worked on draft INTOSAI Guidelines on Good Governance (INTOSAI GOV) on an integrated framework for financial accountability at 1 As of February 2013, the network included one candidate country (Croatia), five candidate countries (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro , Serbia and Turkey) and two potential candidate countries (Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina). disaster relief or humanitarian aid to be made available for public discussion in early 2013.
All five ISSAIs and the INTOSAI GOV will be submitted for approval at the next INTOSAI Congress in 2013.
In 2012, the Court also took the following actions: o Hosted the fourth steering committee meeting of the INTOSAI Knowledge Sharing Committee, chaired by the SAI of India. o He continued to provide input to the INTOSAI Working Group on Environmental Auditing. o Participated in the joint meeting of the INTOSAI Working Group on Sovereign Debt and the Global Financial Crisis Task Force – Challenges for SAIs.
The Court continued its involvement in the IntoSAINT project, a self-assessment tool for SAIs led by the SAI of the Netherlands under the auspices of INTOSAI.
In 2012, ECA representatives facilitated a week-long integrity self-assessment workshop at the Norwegian Court of Accounts. As for EUROSAI, in 2012 (after being appointed as a member of the Governing Board) the Court took part in the XXXIX.
The Court o attended the tenth annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Auditing and contributed to the joint audit on climate change adaptation that the Court prepared on behalf of the working group at the 2012 meeting of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) introduced; o attended the first meeting of the EUROSAI Audit and Ethics Task Force and contributed to the activities of the Task Force.
As part of the joint conferences of the INTOSAI regional working groups, the Court actively participated in the VII Conference of EUROSAI and the Latin American and Caribbean Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (OLACEFS). This conference focused on the role of SAIs in promoting good governance in the public sector.
33 4th Steering Committee Meeting of the INTOSAI Knowledge Sharing Committee in Luxembourg, September 2012
34 OUR MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK: A STRATEGY FOR 2013-2017 In 2012 the Court adopted and published its strategy for 2013-2017.
The Court's aim for this period is to maximize the value of the Court's contribution to EU public accountability.
The key priorities to achieve this goal are: o Alignment of the Court's products to improve EU accountability; o Working with other stakeholders to increase the Court's contribution to EU accountability; o further development as a professional audit body; o making the best use of the Court's pool of knowledge, expertise and expertise; o Evidence of the Court's effectiveness and accountability.
The Court will use its unique powers and perspective, as well as the knowledge, expertise and partnerships it has built over its 35 years of existence, to o make a positive contribution to future governance, policy and of the financial management of the EU; o to support the other parties involved in the EU accountability process to identify the risks to EU accountability and to facilitate the use of the audit results; o Consolidate its professionalism by contributing to and applying new auditing standards and best practices; o further streamline the processes for preparing its reports and opinions; o improve its performance and accountability framework in line with its duties as an EU institution and as an SAI; o implement fiscal discipline measures, including necessary staffing plan reductions during the period of validity of this strategy, in line with the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020.
In 2013-2017, the Court will focus its reports, opinions and observations on: o strengthening public accountability and auditing arrangements; o Improving financial management and reporting on the implementation and impact of the EU budget; o Improved design of EU policies and spending programmes.
CHANGE IN THE COURT'S COLLEGE BOARD According to the contract, the term of office of the members of the Court is six years, renewable.
In 2012, five new members of the Court were appointed: Henrik Otbo (Denmark), Pietro Russo (Italy), Ville Itälä (Finland), Kevin Cardiff (Ireland) and Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain).
REVISED CODE OF CONDUCT FOR THE COURT'S MEMBERS In February 2012, the Court adopted a new code of conduct for its members, reflecting changes that have taken place since the previous code was adopted eight years ago.
In addition, the Court now publishes its members' declarations of interests on its website, which contributes significantly to transparency. 35
36 MEASURING THE COURT'S PERFORMANCE FINALIZATION OF THE 2009-2012 STRATEGY In 2008 the Court published its first strategy.
This strategy applied for the period 2009-2012 and aimed to maximize the impact of the Court's audits and to increase efficiency through the best use of resources.
Overall, the Court successfully implemented its 2009-2012 strategy.
The Court's recommendations were largely accepted: according to the Commission, around half of the recommendations made in 2011 have been implemented. The Court's main institutional stakeholders are satisfied with its annual and special reports, the quality of which is assessed as good and improving by external experts. In addition, through efficiency gains, the Court has increased the number of staff in the audit chambers by 60 (501 in 2008 compared to 564 in 2011) and reduced the number of staff in administration and translation by 40.
For the strategic period 2009-2012, the Court identified a set of key performance indicators with the purpose of: o informing management about the progress towards the objectives; o to support the decision-making process; o to provide the target group with performance-related information.
The key performance indicators are designed to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, with particular attention to the perspective of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
As 2012 was the last year of the strategy period 2009-2012, the results achieved on the key performance indicators are presented for all four years, where available.
The Court will update the KPIs applicable in the 2013-2017 strategy period to reflect its new or revised priorities and demonstrate its performance and accountability as a professional audit body.
QUALITY AND IMPACT OF THE COURT'S WORK The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports through user judgments and peer reviews.
ADJUSTMENTS BY ADDRESSEES Through a survey, the Court asked the main addressees of its reports (European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and Council's Committee on Budgets) to assess the quality and impact of the 2011 Annual Reports and the 2012 Special Reports.
The assessment was made using a five-point scale (1 - very bad, 2 - bad, 3 - fair, 4 - good, 5 - very good).
4.5 4.0 3.5 3.9 4.2 4.0 4.2 105 % of target KEY SUBJECT ASSESSMENTS OF THE COURT'S AUDIT REPORTS 37 2009 2010 2011 2012 Result Target The result remained stable at a value throughout the period between 3.9 and 4.2 on the five-point scale.
It shows that the main users of the Court's reports rate their quality and impact as 'good' on average.
In 2012, the Court achieved a result on this indicator that was five percent above target.
38 EXPERT REVIEWS Each year, independent external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports.
In 2012, the Reviewers assessed eight special reports and the 2011 annual reports.
They rated the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-point scale from “seriously impaired” (1) to “high” (4).
3.5 3.0 2.5 3.0 2.8 3.0 106% of target 2011 2012 4.0 3.5 3.0 FEEDBACK FROM KEY AUDITED ENTITIES 3.7 3.7 3.6 97% of Target 2.8 EXPERT REVIEW OF THE COURT'S REPORTS 2009 2010 3.5 2009 2010 2011 2012 Score Target Score Target The score ranged from 2.8 to 3.0 on the four-point scale over the period 2009-2012, showing that the external Experts rate the quality of the Court's reports as 'satisfactory'.
The reviews have provided the Court with valuable information on the quality of its reports and the recommendations of the reviewers are used to further improve it.
FEEDBACK FROM MAIN AUDITED ENTITIES Feedback from the main audited entities on the quality and impact of the Court's audits carried out in 2012 was collected using a survey and rating scale modeled after those used by users.
The result was between 3.5 and 3.7 on the five-point scale in the period 2009-2012. The results show that the main auditees rate the Court's audits as 'good' on average.
Overall, the results of the user assessments carried out between 2009 and 2012 are positive and indicate that the Court's key users appreciate the quality and impact of the reports.
ACTIONS TAKEN BY RECOMMENDATIONS The Court uses its audit experience, mainly in the form of recommendations made in its reports, to help improve financial management.
For changes to take place, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the auditees and then implemented.
The court therefore measures both parameters.
100% 90% 80% 94% 2009 94% 2010 93% 2011 target 98% 109% of target 2012 COURT RECOMMENDATIONS ACCEPTED BY THE AUDITED ENTITIES Result The acceptance rate of the Court's recommendations by the audited entities ranged between 93 in the period 2009-2012 % and 98%.
The target set for this indicator has been exceeded every year.
In 2011, the Court began systematically monitoring the implementation of its recommendations, recognizing that some recommendations may take a long time to implement due to their scale or complexity.
According to Commission statistics, by the end of 2012, 63% of the nearly 500 recommendations made in 2009-2012 had been implemented.
More than half of the recommendations made in 2011 have already been implemented.
100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0 35% After 1 year 56% After 2 years 73% After 3 years 76% After 4 years THE COURT'S RECOMMENDATIONS IMPLEMENTED 39
40 EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF RESOURCE USE The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources in terms of its ability to submit reports and audit findings in a timely manner, to fulfill its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and professional competence of its staff.
PREPARATION OF REPORTS The Court monitors the effectiveness of its reporting process by comparing the number of reports planned for the year with the number of reports adopted and checking that these reports have been adopted within the deadlines set for each.
100% 90% 80% 70% 79% 2008 91% 2009 90% 2010 83% 2011 93% 103% of target 2012 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 73% 2008 67% 2009 80% 2010 result 75% 73 % 81% of target NUMBER OF REPORTS ADOPTED BY THE COURT VERSUS THE NUMBER OF REPORTS INITIALLY PLANNED Outcome Target This indicator has been measured since 2008 and the number of reports actually adopted compared to the number of reports initially planned has ranged between 79% and 93%
The measurement has shown that the annual targets have largely been met, but further improvements can be made, particularly in the production of special reports.
The timeliness of the reports has also been measured since 2008.
The dates for the annual reports and the special annual reports specified in the legal provisions serve as the basis for the performance measurement. The relevant deadlines for the special reports will be specified in the relevant planning documents.
NUMBER OF COURT REPORTS ADOPTED TIMELY 2011 2012 Target
The result ranged from 67% to 73% between 2008 and 2012, falling short of the 90% target set for this indicator.
The main reasons for this were ambitious planning for the special reports and unforeseeable events in the course of the audit.
The Court notes that, while there is still room for improvement in the accuracy of performance audit planning and the efficiency of audit performance, the period 2008-2012 not only managed to significantly increase the number of special reports produced but also the length of time they took to produce approaching the target of 18 months.
In the period 2008-2012, 85 special reports were adopted (compared to 51 special reports in the period 2003-2007) and the average lead time was reduced from 25 months in 2008 to 20 months in 2012.
The Court's strategy for 2013-2017 includes a new initiative to further streamline reporting with a view to improving reporting timeliness and efficiency.
TIMELINESS OF AUDIT FINDINGS The Court uses audit communications to obtain confirmation from the audited entities of the accuracy of specific audit findings.
Audit notifications are therefore an important stage in the audit process.
According to the Court's internal rules, audit communications should be produced within two months of the relevant audit visit, with compliance measured annually.
70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 54% 58% 61% 90% of target 2012 27% 2008 2009 2010 2011 result target TIMELINESS OF THE COURT'S AUDIT FINDINGS 43% The Court found that when preparing the audit statements in With regard to punctuality, there is considerable room for improvement.
When the Court started measuring in 2008, we set two targets for the timeliness of audit communications: improving performance by 10% per year and ensuring that 80% of audit communications are produced on time by the end of 2012.
The result for this indicator ranged from 27% to 61% in the period 2008-2012.
Although performance has improved significantly and annual targets have been met for the most part, the 2012 result is still below the long-term target of 80%.
The Court will continue to strive to achieve even better performance in this area. 41
42 EXTERNAL EVALUATION OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court aims to obtain an unqualified opinion on the accounts and use of resources from its independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament following a favorable recommendation from the Council.
Unqualified opinion Discharge received EXTERNAL EVALUATION OF THE COURT'S FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT BY FINANCIAL YEARS for April 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 The Court has received an unqualified opinion each year from the independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament for the implementation of the budget.
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING In line with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court aims to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional development.
7 6 5 4 3 5.7 6.1 Days 4.0 2009 5.2 104% of target TRAINING DAYS PER EXAMINER 2010 2011 2012 Result Target
Seminar on automatic translation techniques, January 2012 In the period 2009-2012, one Court auditor received an average of 5.3 training days per year.
If the language courses are taken into account, an examiner accounts for an average of 10.6 training days per year.
The target set for professional development has been met every year since 2010.
STAFF SATISFACTION The Court conducted internal surveys in 2009 and 2012 to measure the satisfaction of its staff.
Two indicators were derived from this survey, namely the percentage of employees who are generally satisfied with their jobs and the average level of overall employee satisfaction.
A scale of 1 to 4 was used, with any value above 2.5 indicating overall satisfaction.
COURT EMPLOYEES SATISFIED WITH THEIR WORK DEGREE OF EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION OVERALL 100% 90% 80% 70% 4 86% 86% 3 2 2.8 2.8 2009 2012 Result 2009 2012 Result The results of these two surveys were very similar: 86% of the employees were generally satisfied with their work and a value of 2.8 was achieved for the overall degree of employee satisfaction.
The results can therefore be rated as good.
1 43 44 SUPPORT TO AUDIT ACTIVITIES HUMAN RESOURCES ALLOCATION OF STAFF The Court's most important asset is its staff.
As at 31 December 2012, the Court's staff totaled 887 (officials and temporary agents but excluding members, contract agents, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 573 work in examination chambers (including 123 staff in members' cabinets).
With a view to the goal of the best possible use of resources, in 2012 possibilities for increasing efficiency by simplifying processes were again explored and implemented in all activities.
Posts freed up by efficiency gains outside the audit area have been reallocated to the Audit Service and the President's services where possible.
This has increased audit posts by 14.4% since 2008, while the total number of posts granted to the Court has only increased by 3.5%.
Output has increased significantly over the same period (see page 9).
45 Distribution of the positions of the farm on December 31, 2008 2009 2012 2012 exam 501 557 573 translation 163 151 148 143 Administration 173 177 148 139 Services 20 21 24 27 32 total 857 889 887 887 Settings The employees The Court's employees come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
BALANCE BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN Like the other EU institutions, the Court applies an equal opportunities policy in human resources management and recruitment.
After steadily increasing the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now achieved an almost equal gender balance among its staff.
At the end of 2012, the Court adopted an equal opportunities action plan aimed at achieving a more balanced representation of men and women at all levels of the institution.
In 2012 the Court recruited 78 staff: 50 officials, 11 temporary agents and 17 contract agents.
The number of vacancies has been close to 3% since 2011 (28 vacancies as of December 31, 2012).
46 The charts below show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as of December 31, 2012.
The proportion of women at AD level reached 40% in 2012 and is likely to increase further in the future as 46% of staff at entry grades AD5 to AD8 are women following the last recruitment waves.
Of the 69 directors and heads of unit, 21 (30%) are women, which is in line with the trend in recent years.
Most of these are employed in the Translation Directorate and in the administrative services.
Assistants – Secretaries (function group AST) 2011 2012 2011 2012 AGE PROFILE Male 33% 33% Women 67% 67% Directors and Heads of Unit Examiners – Administrators (function group AD) Male 2011 72% 2012 70% Female 28% 30% Male 61% 60% Female 39% 40% The age profile of active staff on 31 December 2012 shows that 60% of the Court's staff are aged 44 or younger.
20-24 0.1% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 One third of Directors and Heads of Unit are aged 55 or over.
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING The auditing profession requires constant training to keep up with new developments and acquire new skills.
In addition, due to the specific nature of the Court's audit environment, the auditors need a good knowledge of foreign languages.
In 2012, the Court's staff (auditors and other staff) received an average of 8 days of professional development (9.3 days in 2011).
Language courses accounted for 52% of the total number of training days (compared to 54% in 2011).
Translation is an audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfill its mission and achieve its communication goals.
In 2012, the translation volume peaked at 158 861 pages, 11% more than in 2011.
More than 99% of translations were completed on time.
Information technology makes a crucial contribution to the Court's effectiveness and efficiency.
2012 was a successful year: o In the area of knowledge management, the first version of the Court's new audit support tool (ASSYST2) was set up and a pilot phase started in an audit unit.
In addition, a first knowledge network (community of practice) on the subject of the financial crisis was supported by providing information technology and content. In 2012, improvements were made to the content of the training measures and new courses were developed to meet the priorities in the examination area.
In addition, the establishment of a new paperless system and the development of e-learning enabled more efficient management of training activities.
TRANSLATION INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The Court's Translation Directorate also provided language support to auditors during audits in the Member States and in the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
She also supported INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the Court's audit work. o The automation of administrative processes has been actively pursued through the introduction of ECAdemy to support the Court's training policy, through the decentralization of time recording, which has saved human resources, and through the full digitization of personnel files. o A major achievement was the relocation of the Court's data center to the new K3 building.
The commissioning of the new building also involved a new telephone system and a new data network. 47
48 ADMINISTRATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE In 2012, the Finance and Support Services Directorate continued to: a) provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfill its mission and strategic objectives; and b) ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are in place to support all of the Court's activities.
A second extension building was commissioned in 2003 to provide the Court's staff with a safe, comfortable and ergonomic working environment and for all Court employees to work in one location.
The court accepted the building in November 2012 and the first moves took place before the end of the year.
In 2012, the management made its activities even more efficient and economical.
In October 2012, the Court's office in Brussels was relocated to another location.
It is now located in the MTS (Montoyer-Science) building at 30 rue Montoyer/ Rue de la Science in Brussels.
SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF THE K3 BUILDING The K3 building was completed on time, to quality specifications and within budget.
Complementary works will be carried out in the other buildings of the court in 2013.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court is funded by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget accounts for around 0.1% of total EU spending and 1.72% of total administrative expenditure.
FINANCIAL YEAR 2012 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution* 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions Title 1 as a whole Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous administrative expenditure Final Appropriations Commitments Use of the middle bonds in % payments in 1,000 euros 49 Execution of the 2012 household plan 2012 14 592 3 802 2 972 117 785 89 015 3 512 2 879 113 903 612 685 1 843 2444 137 345 94% 96% 92% 92% 97% 96% 99% 100% 98% 98% 86% 95% 99% 96% 13 557 88 836 3 758 2 604 2 148 110 903 7 009 4 524 690 9 74 8.49 13 764 124 667 161, 163, 165 - Other expenses for Members and staff of the institution 20 - Building 210 - Computers and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and associated costs 23 - Current administrative expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications Tite l 2 total European Court of Auditors total 10 741 9 508 1 017 625 793 1 944 24 628 142 477 * This chapter includes the emoluments and allowances, as well as mission and training expenses of current members, as well as transitional allowances for former members and pensions.
50 In 2012, the implementation rate of the total available budget was 96%.
For Title 1, this rate is 96%, being lowest in Chapter 14 (Other staff and external services) and Article 162 (Missions) of Chapter 16 (Other expenditure incurred by Members and staff of the institution) (92 %).
For Title 2, the average fill rate is 99%.
The amount of the payments from Chapter 20 (Buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the second extension of the farm (K3 building).
The fourth financing tranche of 3 million euros for this project was included in the 2012 budget. This amount was committed and partially paid out in 2012.
The remainder of the appropriations for the K3 building were carried over to 2013 to finance contracts awarded by the project manager to contractors on behalf of the Court.
The construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of 79 million euros, to be financed over five consecutive years: 55 million euros in 2009, 11 million euros in 2010, 7 million euros in 2011 and 6 million euros distributed the years 2012 and 2013.
2013 BUDGET Appropriations in the 2013 budget show a slight increase of 0.2% compared to 2012.
BUDGET Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution* 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 14 566 97 772 4 176 3 700 2 728 122 942 8 327 7 197 830 413 768 2 284 19 819 142 761 14 59 4 173 3 802 121 736 9 941 837 525 793 2 1441 142 477 2012 in 1,000 euros 51 161, 163, 165 - Other Expenditure on members and staff of the institution Title 2: Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenses 20 - Buildings 210 - Computers and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and associated expenses 23 - Current material expenses for running the service Title 1 total 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications European Court of Auditors as a whole Title 2 as a whole elder for former members and pension payments.
52 AUDIT AND ACCOUNTABILITY THE COURT'S EXTERNAL AUDIT The Court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important example of the Court applying to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the entities it audits.
The auditor's report - PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL - on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 was published in October 20122.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S OPINIONS - FINANCIAL YEAR 2011 ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS "In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors at 31 December 2011 and of the results of operations and cash flows for the year then ended with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 of June 25, 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 2342/2002 of December 23, 2002 with implementing provisions for the above Council Regulation and the accounting regulations of the European Union (EC accounting rules)." ON THE USE OF RESOURCES AND THE CONTROL PROCEDURES "During the work steps described in this report, we did not come across any facts from which we would have to conclude that in all material respects and taking into account the assessment criteria mentioned b) the established control procedures do not provide the necessary guarantee that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the rules and regulations in force.
C 315 of 10/18/2012.
53 DECLARATION OF THE AUTHORIZING OFFICER BY DELEGATION The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, in his capacity as Authorizing Officer by Delegation, hereby declare o that the information contained in this report is true and accurate, and o certifies with reasonable assurance that – the appropriations earmarked for the activities described in this report have been provided, have been used for their intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that - the control procedures put in place provide the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and to deal appropriately with allegations or suspected fraud Offer.
This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as e.g. B. the reports and declarations of the authorizing officers by sub-delegation, the reports of the internal auditor and the opinions of the independent auditor for previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, March 7th, 2013 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
54 35 YEARS OF MAKE THE EU WORK BETTER The European Court of Auditors has been the EU's external auditor for 35 years. It continuously adds value to the Union's financial management and ensures public accountability for the use of taxpayers' money.
The Court was established at a time when the European Community (the forerunner of the European Union) was becoming more democratic and accountable to its citizens.
Two particularly important steps were the extension of the European Parliament's budgetary control powers and the full financing of the European Community budget from its own resources.
The Community recognized that it needed an independent external auditor to assist Parliament and the Council in ensuring democratic scrutiny of finances.
Heinrich Aigner, Chairman of the European Parliament's Budgetary Control Committee, who had advocated an external audit body at Community level since 1973, launched the initiative that led to the creation of the European Court of Auditors by the Treaty of Brussels on 22 July 1975.
The Court started its activities in October 1977 with its headquarters in Luxembourg.
The then President of the Court of Justice, Hans Kutscher, praised the court as the financial conscience of the community.
The Court gained the status of a full European institution with the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty on 1 November 1993, guaranteeing its independence and authority as an equivalent institution.
The Maastricht Treaty also introduced what is now a core product of the Court, namely the declaration of assurance (DAS) on the EU's accounts and on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
The Court's role was enhanced with the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty on 1 May 1999, which strengthened the Court's independence and extended its audit powers to other policy areas.
The Nice Treaty of 1 February 2003 confirmed the principle that the Court should have one member from each Member State. In addition, the importance of the Court's cooperation with national audit bodies was stressed and the Court was given the opportunity to create a chamber structure.
Since its inception, the Court has consistently promoted cooperation with Member States' SAIs in auditing EU funds, notably through its participation in the Contact Committee of EU SAI Presidents.
In our capacity as SAI, the Court has also sought to help pioneer developments in public sector auditing by working with other SAIs in the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its regional group EUROSAI to set professional standards and best practices .
The Court made an early commitment to peer review as a tool for developing and disseminating best practice within the SAI community.
Throughout its 35 years of existence, the Court has strived to help improve EU financial management by producing high-quality products that reflect EU developments and the changing needs of its users.
Over the past 35 years, the EU has welcomed new Member States, acquired new powers and created new bodies at EU level – all of which the Court has had to take into account in our work.
As a result, the Court's output has increased significantly compared to the two opinions it produced in its first year of operation.
The Court's products today include Annual Reports, Special Reports, Statements of Assurance, Special Annual Reports, Opinions and Position Papers.
The number of outputs has increased to 87 publications in 2012.
For a number of years, the Court has given higher priority to examining the results achieved in the implementation of EU policies and providing advice on how to improve efficiency.
Like the EU, the Court has evolved.
Starting with nine members and 120 employees in 1977, the court now has 27 members and almost 900 employees.
Like the Union itself, the Court's success depends on close cooperation between members and staff from all over Europe.
The Court prides itself on having built a dedicated, professional and experienced staff since 1977 dedicated to protecting the financial interests of citizens.
In the coming years, the Court will work to help improve accountability to citizens for the funds used to meet the objectives.
55 The members of the first quorum of the Court, November 1977
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2012 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2013 - 55 pp. - 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 WHERE CAN I GET EU PUBLICATIONS? Free publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the representations and delegations of the European Union.
QJ-AA-13-001-DE-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu http://eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorsECA EUAuditorsECA ISBN 978-92-9241- 157-2
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN 2014 activity report
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Email: eca-info@eca.europa.eu Internet: http://eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA Youtube: EUAuditorsECA Numerous further information on the European Union is available on the Internet, server Europa (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2015 Print ISBN 978-92-872-2134-6 ISSN 1684-0666 doi:10.2865/062938 QJ-AA-15-001-DE-C PDF ISBN 978-92-872-2130 -8 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/751281 QJ-AA-15-001-DE-N EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-2123-0 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/14686 QJ-AA-15-001- DE-E © European Union, 2015 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged. Printed in Luxembourg
In memory of our colleague Henrik Otbo, Member of the Court, who died unexpectedly on 1 February 2015 Henrik Otbo was born in 1949 and was a Danish national.
From 1995 to 2012 he was President of the Danish Court of Auditors and since March 1, 2012 he has been a member of the European Court of Auditors in the CEAD chamber ( “Coordination , Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development”) with particular responsibility for audit development and reporting .
His lifelong commitment to the service of public audit, in particular his leadership in the creation of International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions as Chair of INTOSAI 's Professional Standards Committee, has been of particular value to the Court, his former colleagues at the Danish National Audit Office, and the auditing sector as a whole .
01 European Court of Auditors 02 Mission The European Court of Auditors is responsible for auditing the EU finances under the Treaty .
As the EU's external auditor, it helps improve EU financial management , promotes accountability and transparency and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
Mission Statement An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognized for its professionalism and the quality and impact of its work, offering valuable support to its constituency with a view to improving EU financial management.
Values Independence, integrity and impartiality Professionalism Added value Excellence and efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff.
Impartial scrutiny that takes into account the views of the Court 's stakeholders , but refuses any form of influence through outside direction or pressure.
Maintaining an exemplary level of professionalism in all aspects of his work .
Active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU level and worldwide .
Produce relevant, timely, high-quality reports that are based on sound findings and evidence, address the needs of their audience , and contain important and meaningful statements .
to an effective improvement of EU financial management and contribute to strengthening the accountability of EU financial management .
Promoting team spirit through effective communication .
Contents 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4-5 Foreword by the President 6 2014 at a glance 6 Our activities 6 Our management 7-43 Our activities 7-36 Audit reports and other products 37-38 Relations with users 39-41 Cooperation with other supreme audit institutions 42-43 Key Events 44-50 Our Management 44-46 The Court's College 47-50 Measuring the Court's Performance 51-59 Supporting the Audit Activities 51-54 Human Resources 55-56 Support Services 57-58 Financial Information 59 Audit and Accountability 60 Statement of the authorizing officer by delegation
Foreword by the President 04 Dear Reader, 2014 was a year of profound change for the EU and its finances.
The EU gave the European Central Bank responsibility for supervising the large banks in the euro area .
was the first year of the new Multiannual Financial Framework that will govern the implementation of the EU budget for the period 2014-2020 .
The election of new members of the European Parliament and the replacement of top positions in the Council and the European Commission were also of particular importance. The European Court of Auditors (ECA) also welcomed six new members.
In 2014, our body produced 91 reports, opinions and other products – more than ever before.
They are the result of our financial , compliance and performance audits , which include those audits falling within the scope of our new responsibilities for financial and economic governance .
They contain a number of important findings, conclusions and recommendations to improve financial management and accountability of the EU in the 2014-2020 programming period .
Some of their core statements can be found in this annual activity report .
We also aim to provide our audience with the widest possible insight, based on our audit experience, into the main challenges the EU faces in financing and implementing its policies .
To this end - and as a contribution to this time of radical innovation - we introduced a new product in 2014, the so-called "Landscape Analysis ".
, we have published an overview of the results of our financial and compliance audits in the areas of agricultural and cohesion spending for the period 2009-2013 .
The Court is also committed to working with its stakeholders to ensure they get the most out of the results of its work.
Among other things, in 2014 the Court appointed a member responsible for institutional relations and a spokesperson.
He also organized several events to provide opportunities for exchanges with high-level EU and Member State stakeholders.
This conference brought together a wide range of people responsible for the management and control of EU funds, including members of the European Parliament, the European Commission, supreme audit institutions and academics.
The Vice President of the European Parliament and former EU Commissioner Olli Rehn gave an introductory speech .
Also of particular note was the visit of a delegation of members of the Court to Lithuania, where meetings were held with members of parliament , members of the government and representatives of the National Audit Office and the Central Bank of Lithuania.
Foreword by the President 05 Throughout the year, our 2013-2017 strategy has guided our work and the actions taken to reform our institution.
In 2014 we reduced the average time required for the preparation of our special reports and we reduced the number of our staff, as required by an interinstitutional agreement.
We also laid the foundations for future efficiency and effectiveness gains by launching an internal reform project .
This project coordinates the implementation of the recommendations of internal working groups as well as the recommendations from the independent, external peer review of our performance audit practice and from the European Parliament 's report on the future role of the Court.
The Court is based in Luxembourg, but our audit teams travel wherever EU funds are spent as part of their work to obtain audit evidence.
This activity report provides an overview of the audit visits and the reports we have prepared .
be on our audit of EU support for European airport infrastructure.
It is a vivid example of our performance audits - assessing the impact and added value of EU funding - and demonstrates the effort required on the part of the Court to fulfill its mandate.
This audit also demonstrates the commitment and professionalism of the Court 's staff , on whose expertise and dedication the Court and the citizens on whose behalf it acts can always count.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President
2014 at a glance 06 Our activities • Annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds for the financial year 2013. • 51 specific annual reports on the different ‐ Agencies, Decentralized Bodies and ‐ EU Joint Undertakings for the financial year ‐ 2013 as well two summary reports. • 24 special reports on specific budgetary areas or management issues , ranging from European banking supervision to EU - funded airport infrastructure . • Seven opinions and other pronouncements with contributions on financial management issues , from the reform of the EU 's own resources system to a study on the potential savings of bringing the European Parliament's activities together in a single place . • Two landscape analyses: one on the challenges of accountability and public audit in the EU and another on the risks to EU financial management . • Organization of a high - level conference on accountability and public audit in the EU. • Hosted the meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions - EU - Member States with a focus on strengthening cooperation between national SAIs and the Court.
Our Management • The Court welcomed six new members in 2014 : Alex Brenninkmeijer, Danièle Lamarque , Nikolaos Milionis, Phil Wynn Owen, Klaus - Heiner Lehne and Oskar Herics.
The College of Members - re -elected Vítor Caldeira as President of the Court for a third three -year term - and appointed Ville Itälä as Member responsible for institutional relations . • The Court 's strategy for the period 2013-2017 gave impetus to organizational change : the Court introduced an internal reform project aimed at streamlining the audit process and ensuring a more flexible organization of resources. • Further improvement of administrative efficiency, based on process simplifications and on the transfer of staff involved in support services to the audit area .
An action plan in the field of equal opportunities has also been implemented.
Court building in Luxembourg.
Our activities 07 Audit reports and other products The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: • Annual reports – containing the results of its financial and compliance audits – on the budget of the European Union and the European Development Funds (EDF) .
are also separately published special annual reports on the EU agencies , decentralized bodies and joint undertakings. • Special Reports – which may be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits on specific budget areas or management issues.
These are essentially performance audits . • Opinions – on new or amended legal acts affecting financial management and other analysis-based products, produced either at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative.
In 2014, the Court created more products than ever before and also presented new products.
be gleaned from the annual reports . They also provide a comprehensive account of the results of our annual financial and compliance reviews .
, there was an increased focus on performance audits , providing the EU budgetary authority with additional insights into the quality of implementation of the EU budget .
Complementing the annual reports, we published for the first time a summary of our audit findings in relation to shared management agriculture and cohesion expenditure over the period 2009-2013 to provide a multi-annual perspective.
The other important development was a new product called Landscape Analysis .
In Landscape - Analyzes - based on our expertise in the field of auditing - information and analysis is presented on key issues.
In 2014 we published two landscape reviews : the first focuses on the main challenges facing the EU in terms of accountability and public audit; in the second , the risks for EU financial management are in the foreground.
2012 2013 2014 annual reports (EU - general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 Special annual reports on the EU - agencies and decentralized bodies 50 50 51 Special reports 25 19 24 Opinions and other pronouncements 10 6 14 Total 87 77 91 The full version of each audit report , opinions and landscape analysis is available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu) in 23 official EU languages.
Our activities 08 Audit visits in 2014 While most of the audit work takes place at our premises in Luxembourg, our auditors also carry out audit visits to Member States ' authorities , to other beneficiaries of EU funds ( including the headquarters of international organizations such as such as the World Health Organization in Switzerland) and the EU agencies and institutions.
The purpose of these visits is to obtain direct audit evidence from the entities involved in approving, managing and disbursing EU funds and from the respective final recipients.
Our review teams typically consist of two to three reviewers, and review visits can take anywhere from a few days to two weeks, depending on the nature of the review and the distance.
Within the EU, our audit visits are often conducted in coordination with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States visited.
The frequency and intensity of the audit work in each Member State and beneficiary country depends on the type of audit and the results of the sample selection .
The number and duration of audit visits can therefore vary from country to country and from year to year.
In 2014, the Court's auditors spent 4 915 days on-site audits – in Member States and outside the EU – and obtained audit evidence for the annual reports and the selected audit tasks ( special reports).
They also spent considerable time with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with the decentralized agencies and bodies across the EU.
In 2014, our auditors spent fewer days on on - site audits than in previous years.
This is due to more efficient working methods and an increasing use of technology such as the use of video conferencing.
The EU auditors used EU auditors when inspecting sea freight transport facilities .
4 915 days for on - site tests
Our activities 09 days of on-site testing in 2014 Italy Poland Germany Spain France United Kingdom Portugal Greece Romania Czech Republic Lithuania Austria Sweden Hungary Netherlands Slovakia Denmark Latvia Bulgaria Belgium Finland Ireland Croatia Slovenia Estonia Malta Cyprus Luxembourg Rwanda India Norway United States of America Algeria Cambodia Morocco Seychelles South Africa Switzerland Zambia Ivory Coast Mozambique Democratic Republic of the Congo Fiji Thailand Belize Tunisia Colombia Georgia Indonesia Lesotho Nigeria Serbia Cameroon Mauritania Afghanistan Israel Senegal Tanzania Madagascar Turkey 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
Our activities 10th annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 The Court devoted most of its financial and compliance audits during 2014 to the implementation of the EU budget for 2013 .
The 2013 Annual Report resulting from this work was published on November 5, 2014 and our audience, which includes the European Parliament and its Budgetary Control Committee, the Council of the EU (ECOFIN Council), national parliaments and governments, and presented to the media.
The aim of the annual report is to support the European Parliament, the Council and the citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management by presenting findings and conclusions .
( “DAS”) on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the transactions on which they are based .
That report contained even more information on the soundness of EU spending and the Commission's performance reporting.
Estimated error rate for the EU budget: 4.7% President Caldeira handing over the annual report on the financial year 2013 to the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz .
Our activities 11 Key messages from the 2013 annual report ο We gave an unqualified opinion on the reliability of the 2013 accounts of the European Union.
Revenue for 2013 was legal and regular overall; this also applies to the commitments. ο The payments for 2013 were affected by a material level of error.
Therefore, the Court issued a negative opinion on their legality and regularity.
This value is close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8%) and consistently above the materiality threshold of 2%. ο The two most error-prone spending areas were regional policy, transport and energy, with an estimated error rate of 6.9%, and rural development, environment, fisheries and health, with an estimated error rate of 6.7%.
For shared management as a whole, the estimated error rate was 5.2%. ο Overall, the supervisory and control systems examined were partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments , with significant divergences between Member States.
As in 2012, for a large proportion of the transactions affected by errors in shared management areas, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors before claiming reimbursement from the Commission. ο Corrective actions and recoveries by Member State authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Without these measures, the estimated overall error rate would have been 6.3 %. ο The use of EU funds in the 2007-2013 programming period focused on absorption ( use it or lose it) and compliance with the law rather than good performance .
This lack of focus on performance is a key weakness in the way much of the EU budget is structured .
Our activities 12 Audit of transactions by EU spending area - Results for 2013 Audited amount and most likely error rate 6.9% 3.6% 3.1% 6.7% 4.6% 2.6% Spending area Agriculture: market support and Direct payments Audit conclusion Regional policy, transport and energy Employment and social affairs Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external aid and enlargement Administrative and related expenditure 1.0 % Significantly errored Not significantly affected Errored 0 €10bn €20bn €30bn €40bn €50bn % Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on the quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Table from the EU audit briefing 2013 ; available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
Our activities 13 Agriculture and cohesion: overview of EU spending 2007 - 2013 In 2014, the Court published for the first time - in 23 official EU languages - a background document, alongside the annual reports , to provide a multiannual perspective on the festivals underlying the DAS . positions in the two main spending areas of agriculture and cohesion.
He drew lessons on EU financial management and control issues encountered in the past spending period , summarized audit findings and identified challenges related to the new spending period 2014-2020 .
This overview also responded to the European Parliament's request for country-specific information on shared management. Key messages: ο Except for direct aids and market support measures for farmers in agriculture, the pressure to take up the funds is a key aspect of risk in shared management spending . ο The main risks to the regularity of agricultural expenditure are that the land or animals or costs on which the aid payments are based are ineligible, the recipients of aid do not meet the eligibility criteria and the aid is not calculated correctly.
Violations of agri - environmental requirements, specific requirements for investment projects and procurement rules are important factors that increase risk in rural development spending. ο The main risk in cohesion spending is breaches of EU and /or national public procurement rules.
The second biggest risk is that expenditure (or projects) will not be eligible for EU funding . ο Although there is a significant need for improvement in the control systems, the main challenge is to take steps to simplify the administration of the programmes.
The Court finds errors in all EU Member States .
Many errors have occurred due to the complexity of the overall architecture for management and control. ο Despite improvements in the reporting of risks and errors by Member State authorities, it remains very difficult for the Commission to ensure the reliability of this information. ο The overall changes in the regulations for the new programming period may not have a significant impact on the level of risk.
Our Activities 14 Annual Report on the European Development Funds 2013 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are funded by the EU Member States . They are governed by their own financial regulation and managed outside the general budget of the EU.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial implementation of the measures financed from EDF funds .
Under the EDF, the European Union grants funds for development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP ) States and the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCT) on the basis of the Cotonou Agreement of 2000 .
Expenditure is aimed at reducing and eventually eradicating poverty, in line with the goals of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the ACP and OCT countries into the world economy.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars, namely development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension .
The Court's 2013 annual report on the EDFs was published in parallel with the annual report on the EU budget on 5 November 2014 .
It contains the 20th Statement of Assurance on the EDFs .
The Court found that the 2013 accounts fairly present the assets and liabilities of the EDFs, the results of their operations and cash flows and changes in net assets overall.
The Court estimated the error rate in EDF expenditure transactions to be 3.4 % for the financial year 2013, which is an increase compared to 3.0 % in 2012 .
published 51 special annual reports covering the financial year 2013 .
The reports covered the 41 EU decentralized bodies, executive agencies and agencies, the seven EU research Joint Undertakings , the European Central Bank, the European Schools and the Sisnet communications infrastructure.
The Court also published two summaries summarizing the results of its annual audits for the financial year 2013 - one on the EU agencies and other bodies, the second on the Joint Undertakings active in the field of research .
These two summaries for analysis - and comparison - were presented to the President of the European Parliament , the Budgetary Control Committee of the Parliament, the General Affairs Council and the Budgets Committee of the Council.
( eca.europa.eu) together with the specific annual reports .
, Bodies and Joint Undertakings are set up on the basis of EU legal acts to carry out specific tasks . Their offices are located throughout the European Union.
They are active in many areas, such as security , health, research, finance, migration and travel.
They each have a mandate, board of directors, director, staff and budget.
Whilst the financial risk associated with the agencies, bodies and JUs is relatively low in relation to the total EU budget , the reputational risk for the Union is high as they are highly visible in the Member States and have a significant influence on policy making , decision-making and program implementation in areas of greatest concern to European citizens.
51 special annual reports throughout the year
Our activities 15 The Court issued unqualified opinions on the reliability of the 2013 accounts to the 41 agencies and other bodies .
The transactions underlying these financial statements were legal and regular in all material respects for all but two agencies and other bodies . The Court issued qualified audit opinions for the EIT ( European Institute of Innovation and Technology) and Frontex (European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union).
, but the Court issued qualified opinions on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying their accounts for three JUs: Artemis ( embedded ICT systems ), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative).
Concerning the European Schools, the Court was not able to come to a conclusion as to whether the consolidated accounts for 2013 were free from material misstatement as the Schools continued to have accounting and control weaknesses.
The Court examined the European Central Bank 's management of its carbon footprint and found that while the Bank has taken action to reduce the negative impact of its administrative activities on the environment, further efforts and action are needed .
Special reports adopted in 2014 In addition to our annual reports and annual special reports, the Court publishes special reports throughout the year, which give the results of its economy - ‐ and compliance ‐ checks on specific budget areas or management issues of his choice .
In selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court seeks to achieve maximum impact, thereby making the best use of its resources .
: • the risks of irregularity or poor efficiency in the spending or policy area; • the potential to add value in the course of an audit by the Court; • the political and public interest. 24 special reports in 2014
Our Activities 16 The main stages of a selected performance or compliance audit Audit planning On - site inspection Drafting the report Reconciling the report Acceptance Publication Determination of the advisability and feasibility of a proposed audit; definition of the scope, objectives, approach, methods and timing of the audit Multidisciplinary teams collate audit evidence on-site at Commission headquarters and in Member States and recipient countries Clear, structured presentation of key findings and conclusions; Preparation of recommendations Confirmation of the facts and findings by the auditees Acceptance of the report by the Audit Chamber or the entire Court College Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the auditee’s reply The following pages present the subjects of the 24th Special Reports briefly presented under the relevant headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020 , the EU's multiannual budgetary plan.
Our activities 17 Smart and inclusive growth Smart and inclusive growth covers two areas: Competitiveness for growth and jobs includes funds for research and innovation, education and training, trans-European energy , transport and telecommunications networks, social policy, business development , etc. The EU funds earmarked for growth and jobs for the period 2014-2020 amount – in current prices – to €142 billion or 13% of the total EU budget .
's least developed countries and regions to catch up with the rest, is part of economic, social and territorial cohesion . The competitiveness of all regions should be strengthened and cooperation between them should be developed .
The EU funds earmarked for cohesion for the period 2014-2020 – in current prices – amount to €367 billion or 34% of the total EU budget .
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of EU funded projects in the field of public transport (No 1/2014) - In this special report, the Court assessed the implementation and effectiveness of EU Structural Funds co-funded public transport projects to determine whether the projects met users' needs and achieved their objectives.
The audit revealed that two thirds of the local transport projects co-financed with EU Structural Funds were underused.
This development was primarily caused by weaknesses in the project design and an inadequate mobility policy.
this underperformance was generally not followed up by project promoters or national authorities.
In general, infrastructure and rolling stock have been set up in accordance with the project specifications for most projects .
Significant delays and cost overruns were identified, but once completed almost all projects audited met user needs.
European cities need to improve mobility and reduce congestion, accidents and pollution through local mobility strategies .
Through the co-financed projects, the cities received support in setting up local transport systems such as subways , trams and buses.
Trams and buses are important means of public transport .
Our activities 18 • Has the cohesion policy funding to support renewable energy production achieved good results?
(6/2014) – In this special report, we examined whether the two main sources of funding to support renewable energy – the European Regional Development Fund ( ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF) – performed well were. To this end, it was assessed whether funds had been allocated during this period to appropriately prioritized, cost-effective and mature renewable energy production projects that pursued meaningful objectives and to what extent these funds had achieved good results that contribute to the achievement of the EU 2020 renewable energy targets .
The audit found that improvements are needed to ensure that EU funding contributes as much as possible to the achievement of the target .
The projects audited delivered the outputs as planned and most projects were sufficiently mature and operational at the time of their selection.
There were no significant cost overruns or major delays and the renewable energy generation capacity was installed and operational as planned.
However, results in terms of energy production have not always been achieved or properly measured.
Overall, the use of funds was limited, as cost-effectiveness was not the guiding principle in planning and implementing the projects and the spending had limited EU added value.
has set a binding EU target of 20% for the share of renewable energies in gross final energy consumption by 2020.
In the period 2007 - 2013 , around 4.7 billion euros were made available from the ERDF and the KF for renewable energies. • Has the ERDF been successful in supporting the development of business incubators?
(7/2014) – In this special report, we analyzed whether the incubators co‐funded by the ERDF had successfully supported start ‐ up companies with high growth potential.
The audit found that the EU has made a significant financial contribution to the creation of incubator infrastructure, particularly in Member States where this type of business support is relatively rare.
However, the performance of the audited incubators left a lot to be desired.
The provision of start - up related services was rather limited due to financial constraints and the small scale of start-up related activities .
This situation arose mainly due to a lack of expertise in start-up support procedures and poor administrative systems.
Business incubators aim to support new companies with the successful establishment and further development.
( SMEs) has therefore become an increasingly important policy priority over time.
In the period 2007-2013 , EU expenditure in this area amounted to 38 billion euros.
“Delta” building in the Technological Park in Wrocław , co-financed with ERDF funds .
Our activities 19 • Is the ERDF effective in funding projects directly promoting biodiversity under the EU ‐ Biodiversity Strategy 2020?
– In this special report, we examined whether the ERDF funding available for direct biodiversity support was used by the Member States.
The audit found that Member States lag behind in the absorption of ERDF funds to finance projects compared to other ERDF spending areas .
In order for the ERDF to continue to be useful in view of the implementation of the EU strategy to halt biodiversity loss by 2020, the Commission should provide more support to Member States in the implementation of specific protection and management plans for natural habitats and species .
were generally consistent with national and EU biodiversity priorities.
However, assessing the effectiveness of these projects was hampered by the fact that most Member States had neither result indicators nor monitoring systems to assess the evolution of natural habitats and species .
Protecting biodiversity is one of the EU's top priorities.
to meet the previous target of halting the loss of biodiversity in Europe by 2010, the Council approved a new strategy up to 2020. In the programming period 2007 - 2013 ERDF funds of 2 .8 billion euros allocated. • Has the support provided by the ERDF to e - commerce SMEs been effective?
20/2014 ) - In this special report, the Court assessed whether the operational programs formed a good basis for an efficient support of actions in the field of e - commerce for SMEs, whether the managing authorities correctly selected e - commerce projects and monitored and whether the ERDF co-financed e - commerce projects were successfully implemented and delivered measurable benefits .
The Court found that ERDF support for SMEs in e - commerce – buying and selling goods over the internet – helped increase the online availability of business services.
However, due to deficiencies in monitoring, it has been impossible to assess to what extent ERDF support has contributed to the achievement of Member State and EU IT objectives .
Inadequate selection procedures by the Member States mean that a good cost - benefit ratio is unlikely for many projects .
The program managers focused more on the use of funds (outputs) than on achieving results.
The Commission is promoting e ‐ commerce through its Digital Agenda for Europe . Within the framework of the ERDF budget , in the period 2007 - 2013 EU funds amounting to 3 billion euros were made available for the better use of ICT by SMEs . Court's video on special report 20/2014 "Is the ERDF effective in funding projects directly supporting biodiversity under the EU ‐ Biodiversity Strategy 2020?" - EUauditorsECA on Youtube.
Our activities 20 Close-up of a performance audit: EU - funded airport - infrastructures - an insufficient cost - benefit - relationship (No. 21/2014) Closed part of the oversized terminal at Fuerteventura Airport.
Although EU air transport policy is aimed at overcoming capacity problems – by building additional infrastructure, making better use of existing structures , optimizing airport services and improving connections to other modes of transport – Europe will not be able to meet a large part of this demand because Runways and ground infrastructure are missing.
There are more than 500 commercial airports in Europe, which directly or indirectly employ a million people and which – together with the airlines – contribute more than 140 billion euros to European economic output.
Airport - related infrastructure projects are a significant spending area of the EU budget : the EU allocated around 4.5 billion euros to projects of this type in the programming periods 2000 – 2013, of which more than 2.8 billion euros were made available from the cohesion policy funds.
As part of its performance audit of this support, the Court examined whether the investments were demonstrated to be needed, whether the construction projects were on time and on budget and whether the newly built or upgraded infrastructure was fully utilised.
We assessed whether the investments resulted in increased passenger numbers and improved customer service, and whether the supported airports were financially viable.
The examiners carried out their work between May 2013 and October 2014. The focus was on 20 EU - financed airports in Estonia, Greece, Italy, Poland and Spain.
more than 600 million euros have been made available for these airports in the period 2000-2013 EU .
The team undertook a desk review of the relevant legislation , air transport planning in the five Member States and publications from the main industry organisations .
In particular, the auditors visited the 20 airports to assess and obtain direct evidence of the outputs, uses, results and impacts achieved with the EU funds and the economic situation of the airports .
The Court concluded that EU - funded investments in airports did not represent a cost - benefit ratio .
Too many airports, often close to each other, received financial support for similar infrastructure and in many cases this infrastructure turned out to be oversized.
Only half of the audited airports managed to increase their passenger numbers.
Improvements in customer service or a regional socio - economic benefit such as B. the creation of additional jobs were either not measured or there was no evidence of this.
The audit also revealed that seven of the airports were not financially self-sustaining and will struggle to remain operational without further government support.
For most airports audited , the audit team found significant delays in construction and infrastructure deployment.
Almost half of the airports exceeded the costs, so that Member States had to contribute almost 100 million euros more from their national budgets than originally planned .
Our Activities 21 Funding was not well coordinated by Member States: in most States there was no strategic long ‐ term plan for airport development.
In addition, the funding was insufficiently monitored by the Commission . In general, the latter does not know which airports receive funding or what the amounts are.
As a result, it does not have a complete picture of all EU investments in airports and has limited ability to oversee and ensure policies are properly designed and implemented.
Based on these findings, the Court recommended that the Commission ensure, from the 2014-2020 programming period , that Member States only use EU funds for airport infrastructure that is financially viable and whose investment needs have been properly assessed and has been proven.
Another recommendation was that Member States should have coherent airport development plans at regional, national and supranational levels to avoid overcapacity, duplication and uncoordinated investments in airport infrastructure.
In its reply, the Commission assured that lessons were learned from these experiences.
As a result, it has ensured that a fundamentally different approach is applied in the relevant legislation for the 2014-2020 programming period .
The report was presented to the European Parliament, which fully supports the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The publication of the report attracted a great deal of media interest.
The media reaction was greatest in Spain, but also included headlines in major international newspapers, television and social media coverage.
From left to right: Afonso de Castro Malheiro, Jasmine Mitterbuchner, Patrick Weldon, Mircea Radulescu, Pietro Puricella, Joël Costantzer, George Pufan (Member of the Court responsible for the report), Fernando Pascual Gil, Luc T'Joen, Tomasz Plebanowicz, Lorenzo Pirelli, Efstratios Varetidis, Jelena Magermane, Erki Must.
Our activities 22 Sustainable growth: natural resources The EU has high political responsibilities in the areas of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for the period 2014-2020 is – in current prices – €420 billion or 39% of the total EU budget.
Three-quarters of spending concerns direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) - the 'first pillar' of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
Another fifth of spending is on EU support for rural development , funded by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the 'second pillar' of the CAP.
Agriculture and rural development are managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2014, we produced the following special reports in this area: • Integrating EU - water policy objectives into the CAP: a partial success (4/2014) - In this special report, we assessed whether the EU - water policy objectives were successful in integrated into the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
The audit revealed that the EU has only had partial success in integrating water policy objectives into the CAP.
The two instruments for integrating water-related concerns (cross ‐ compliance and rural development) show shortcomings and the implementation of the Water Framework Directive is marked by delays and weaknesses.
The CAP instruments have so far had a positive impact in supporting policy objectives of improving water quantity and quality .
However, these instruments are limited compared to the ambitious goals of the CAP.
For example, neither of these two instruments allows for the full application of the polluter pays principle when disbursing CAP funds .
, there is insufficient knowledge at the level of the EU institutions and in the Member States to which pressures on water resources are exposed by agricultural activities and what developments these pressures are taking.
The EU gives high priority to the protection of Europe's water resources .
Agriculture, as one of the largest consumers and polluters of water resources, has a key role to play in sustainable water management.
Almost 40% of the EU budget is spent on the CAP ( over EUR 50 billion in 2014). Through the CAP, the EU is striving to influence agricultural practices that affect water resources.
Our activities 23 • Has the Commission effectively managed the integration of coupled support into the SPS ?
(8/2014) - In this special report, we assessed how well the Commission, following the 2008 Health Check of the CAP, is managing the integration of EU support linked to production levels (e.g. areas under cultivation or livestock numbers) into the SPS Has.
The audit found that during the period ‐ 2010 ‐ 2012 the Commission did not adequately monitor how Member States calculated farmers' entitlements to EU farm support payments under the Single Payment Scheme .
While most Member States had correctly used the farmers' reference data, there were serious shortcomings in the correct application of the calculation rules and principles .
The Commission did not exercise its mandate to ensure that the criteria for the allocation of the available support were always in line with EU principles, respected the principle of sound financial management and had no potential impact on market conditions .
The framework put in place by the Commission was not sufficiently clear about the controls Member States must carry out and the quality of the control systems in the Member States varied. The main objective of the SPS was to shift the focus of the CAP from market support to decoupled income support for farmers: farmers should be able to adapt their production to market demand and their income should be stabilised .
, the SPS accounts for 54% of the total EU budget for agriculture and rural development. • Is EU support for investment and promotion in the wine sector well managed and are there documented results in terms of EU wine competitiveness ?
(9/2014) - In this special report, the Court assessed whether the investment - and promotion - measures were adequately designed. We also examined the available monitoring and evaluation data to assess whether the Commission and the Member States were efficiently achieving the intended results .
The audit found that the management of investment and promotion support in the wine sector was hampered by design and implementation weaknesses and impacts on the competitiveness of EU wines could not always be demonstrated .
The investment measure specific to the wine sector is not justified as support is already provided under the EU rural development policy .
EU support for the promotion of wine has often served to consolidate existing markets rather than opening up new markets or recapturing old ones.
The impact of the investment measure cannot be easily separated from the rural development investments.
The EU is the largest wine producer in the world.
EU support aims to improve competitiveness and ensure a better balance between supply and demand.
Member States spent 522 million euros on the promotion measure and 518 million euros on the investment measure in the period 2009 - 2013 EU .
For 2014-2018 , the funds allocated to Member States under this measure have increased significantly .
Our activities 24 • Effectiveness of support to aquaculture provided by the European Fisheries Fund ( EFF) (No 10/2014) – In this special report we assessed whether the measures to support aquaculture at EU level and in Member States were well designed and adequately implemented and whether the EFF delivered value for money and supported the sustainable development of aquaculture .
The audit found that measures to support aquaculture up to 2013 were not well designed and implemented at EU and Member State level , that the EFF did not deliver value for money and the sustainable development of aquaculture was not effective was supported.
The current framework was not suitable to concretely implement the EU's goals for the sustainable development of aquaculture and the results were not sufficient .
to support the sustainable development of aquaculture in Member States have not been well designed and implemented.
Member States ' National Strategic Plans and Operational Programs were not sufficiently clear and Member States did not have a coherent strategy for the sector.
The EFF funds were often not used in a sufficiently targeted manner for aquaculture projects, and the audit showed that these projects generally did not produce the planned results or a good cost - benefit ratio .
Around 1.3 million tonnes of fish are produced through aquaculture in the EU every year; the turnover amounts to 4 billion euros.
One of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy ( CFP) for the period up to 2013 was to promote the sustainable development of aquaculture.
been made available under the EFF to fund measures to encourage productive investment and environmental and health policies in the aquaculture sector. • Going thrifty: staying in control of the cost of EU - funded aid to rural development projects (n°22/2014) - In this special report, the Court examined whether the approaches taken by the Commission and Member States ‐ the most effective in keeping rural development aid costs under control.
The audit showed that EU - Member States could achieve significant savings in rural development project grants while at the same time making more efficient use of funds.
The auditors identified workable and cost-effective approaches that could be used more widely in Member States' control of the cost of rural development support.
Member States' control systems were designed to control the prices of goods or works indicated in aid applications without giving equal attention to the question of whether the goods themselves were reasonable.
Some price controls were time consuming or provided little assurance that the approved costs were reasonable.
At the beginning of the programming period, the Commission did not provide sufficient guidance nor did it ensure the dissemination of good practice .
were effective before they approved large-scale aid.
Around half of the total €100 billion in rural development spending earmarked by the EU for the period 2007-2013 came in the form of grants towards the cost of investment projects and other projects run by farmers , agribusinesses , associations and local authorities.
Our activities 25 • Mistakes in rural development spending: what are the causes and what is being done to fix them?
(No 23/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the implementation of rural development and described the main causes of the high level of error in this area.
The audit found that most errors in rural development policy stem from breaches of conditions set at Member State level .
Member States' control authorities could and should have detected and corrected most errors in rural development investment measures.
The Member State control systems are deficient as the controls are not comprehensive and based on insufficient information .
The average error rate for rural development spending over the past three years was 8.2%.
Errors in the context of investment measures accounted for two thirds of the error rate, area-related aid for one third.
Only 16% of the error rate resulted from non-compliance with provisions directly contained in EU regulations, while the largest share of the error rate – 84% – was due to breaches of conditions set at Member State level .
period 2007-2013 , the EU and the Member States provided over 150 billion euros for rural development policy, which was used almost equally for investment measures and area - related subsidies.
These outputs are particularly error-prone. • Is EU support for preventing and repairing forest damage caused by fire and natural disasters well managed?
(No 24/2014) – In this special report, we assessed whether the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) support measure for restoring forestry potential and introducing preventive actions (measure 226) was well managed and whether the Commission and Member States can demonstrate that the intended objectives of the aid have been achieved in a cost-effective manner.
The audit found that EU funding for preventing forest fires and restoring forests damaged by natural disasters and fires was not well managed.
The Commission and the Member States are unable to demonstrate that the intended results of the funding have been achieved in a cost-effective manner.
During the last 30 years, an average of 480 000 ha of forest area has been destroyed by fire in the EU every year.
more than 80% of EU funding of €1.5 billion for the period 2007-2013 .
Our activities 26 Security and citizenship This policy area was established to ensure the free movement of people and to offer citizens a high level of protection.
It ranges from the management of the EU external borders to judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters and includes asylum and immigration policy , police cooperation and the fight against crime.
Expenditure in this area over the period 2014-2020 is expected to be €18 billion , or less than 2% of the total budget.
In 2014, we produced the following special reports in this area: • Lessons learned from the development of the second generation Schengen Information System ( SIS II) by the European Commission (3/2014) - In this special report we examined : why the Commission deployed the SIS II more than six years later than planned and incurred eight times the costs originally estimated.
It was verified that there was a viable business case for the SIS II throughout the project duration, taking into account major changes in terms of costs and expected benefits.
The audit found that the delays and excessive costs were due to weaknesses in the Commission's management.
The initial deadline was unrealistic and the Commission could not effectively manage the main contract for development before 2009.
The original cost estimates significantly underestimated the actual level of investment required.
The total cost of SIS II was EUR 189 million compared to an initial estimate of EUR 23 million.
The Commission did not fully demonstrate that the SIS II offered it the best value for money .
However, she has gained insights from her experiences during the first phase of the project and has already used some of these insights for other large IT projects .
The Schengen Information System is used by border guards , police , customs , visa and judicial authorities throughout the Schengen area .
It contains information ( alerts) regarding persons who may have been involved in a serious crime or who do not have the right to enter or reside in the EU .
It also includes alerts relating to missing persons and lost or stolen property. • The EBF contributed to more financial solidarity, but there is a need to improve measurement of results and create additional EU - added value (15/2014) - In this special report, we assessed the effectiveness and EU - added value of the EBF and highlighted the Ask to what extent the goals of the co ‐ financed projects and programs have been achieved.
The audit found that the External Borders Fund has contributed to the protection of the EU's external borders and increased financial solidarity between Member States.
, its EU added value was limited and the overall results could not be measured due to weaknesses in monitoring by competent authorities and serious weaknesses in assessments at Commission and Member State level.
Member States' programs were not embedded in national strategies for border control and visa issues and did not contain SMART targets or measurable indicators .
The project selection procedures did not ensure that the real needs of the Member States were met.
Inadequate ‐ procurement practices in Member States pose a risk to sound financial management.
In the Member States primarily affected (Greece, Spain, Italy and in the first years of funding also Malta) there were serious weaknesses in the administration of the fund.
's main financial instrument to support the management of the external borders, the External Borders Fund had a budget of €1.9 billion for the period 2007-2013 .
Its overall objective was to support current and future Schengen States in ensuring uniform, effective and efficient controls at their common external borders .
Our activities 27 Global Europe The EU's external relations activities focus on enlargement, bringing stability, security and prosperity to its neighbourhood, actively supporting sustainable development internationally, promoting global political governance and security of strategic and civil security.
The EU has allocated €66 billion – in current prices – or 6% of its planned total spending to these objectives for the period 2014-2020 .
is managed by the Commission directly through its central services or its delegations.
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • The establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS) (No 11/2014) - In this special report , the Court examined whether the establishment of the EEAS was adequately prepared, whether its resources have been efficiently prioritized, organized and allocated and whether it has effectively coordinated with the Commission and Member States.
The audit found that the EEAS should become more efficient and do more for the EU and its citizens.
The establishment of the EEAS was rushed and not sufficiently prepared.
, organization and resource allocation reduced its efficiency.
Coordination between the EEAS and the Commission was only partially effective , mainly due to the lack of effective coordination mechanisms and a rigid financial and administrative framework at delegation level .
Coordination with Member States can be further enhanced to exploit synergies in the area of information exchange or shared accommodation and to improve consular services, including the protection of EU citizens .
The EEAS is headquartered in Brussels and comprises a worldwide network of 140 delegations.
For 2014, the EEAS had a budget of €519 million divided between headquarters (41%) and the delegations (59%). • EU rehabilitation assistance after the earthquake in Haiti (13/2014) – In this special report we examined whether the EU rehabilitation assistance provided to the country was well designed and adequately implemented and whether the Commission ensured that the Provided emergency aid with rehabilitation and development measures .
The audit found that overall EU rehabilitation assistance after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti was well designed and targeted to the country's urgent needs, but the programs were not implemented effectively enough and relief , rehabilitation and development were not sufficiently linked were linked .
Most of the programs audited had their outputs on track or on track to deliver, although almost all programs experienced delays.
, it did not adequately address some key risks that jeopardized the implementation and achievement of the program objectives .
The programs were monitored but the Commission and the EEAS did not take timely action to increase the resources of the EU delegation in Haiti .
, 55 donors pledged US$5.4 billion for 2010-2012 for rehabilitation and development and an additional US$3.0 billion for 2013 and beyond.
The EU was one of the most important donors with a commitment of an individual amount of 1.2 billion euros.
Our activities 28 • Effectiveness of blending grants ‐ from regional investment facilities with loans provided by financial institutions (blending) in support of the EU ‐ External Policy (No 16/2014) – In this special ‐ report we looked at the establishment and management of the investment facilities and examined whether the intended benefits were achieved with the blended financing.
The audit's judgment on blended finance, i.e. the combination of grants from regional investment facilities and loans provided by financial institutions in support of the EU's external policy, was positive in terms of structure and overall effectiveness, but the Court also reports draws attention to a number of key issues that urgently need to be addressed.
While the facilities were well constructed, the potential benefits of blending were not fully realized due to weaknesses in their management by the Commission .
For almost half of the projects examined, there was insufficient evidence that the grants were justified.
In some cases the investments would probably have been made without the EU contribution .
The Commission should ensure that the allocation of funds is based on a thorough, documented assessment of the added value in terms of achieving the objectives of the EU's development , neighborhood and enlargement policies.
Since 2007, the Commission has created eight regional investment facilities.
These combine grants from the EDFs and the general EU budget with loans primarily from European development finance institutions .
be financially viable but for which sufficient funds cannot be mobilized in financial markets. • Can the EU ‐ Centers of Excellence initiative contribute effectively to mitigating chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN ‐ ) risks originating outside the EU?
, we assessed whether the initiative was based on a sound analysis of the pre-2010 situation, whether the organizational structure of the initiative was appropriate to address the challenges identified and whether there was a adequate management system existed and whether this was applied.
a generally positive assessment of the contribution of the centers of excellence to mitigating CBRN risks .
The initiative is in line with the priorities set out in the European Security Strategy and the EU Strategy against Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction .
It provides for the involvement of all actors involved in the partner countries in order to improve the sustainability of the measures taken .
The organizational structure is generally adequate, but its complexity contributed to the delay in starting project activities.
The Centers of Excellence initiative aims to set up regional platforms in different regions of the world to counteract CBRN risks .
It forms the largest single measure of the long-term component of the Instrument for Stability and has a budget of EUR 100 million for the period 2010-2013 .
Our activities 29 • Systems put in place at EuropeAid for evaluation and results-oriented monitoring (ROM) (18/2014) - In this special report we examined whether these systems are reliable, whether their structure and their resource allocations are adequate and whether they ensure that relevant and meaningful determinations are made and maximum use is made of the determinations.
, the Court came to a critical assessment of the reliability of these systems.
The bodies responsible for evaluation and results - oriented monitoring are well organized, but more attention should be paid to the efficient use of resources.
The systems do not provide enough information on the results achieved and they do not ensure that the best possible use is made of the findings.
The evaluations of projects and programs organized by the Commission Delegations and carried out in partner countries are not managed satisfactorily: the overall monitoring is not adequate , there is a lack of clarity about the amount of resources used and there is a lack of access to the results.
Two key elements of the accountability framework of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Development and Cooperation ( EuropeAid) are its evaluation and results - based monitoring systems.
The total annual costs of the systems are estimated at 34 to 38 million euros.
The annual development expenditure covered by these systems is estimated at around 8 billion euros. • EU pre-accession assistance to Serbia (19/2014) - In this special report we examined whether the Commission had effectively managed pre-accession assistance to Serbia over the period 2007-2013 , assessing its support to the key area of governance.
Along with other forms of support, funds made available from the Instrument for Pre- Accession Assistance (IPA) helped Serbia implement social and economic reforms and improve public financial management.
Based on its experience with other IPA beneficiary countries , the Commission is placing increasing emphasis on governance issues when planning financial and non-financial assistance to Serbia.
The Commission has effectively managed non - financial assistance to Serbia in the areas of governance and anti-corruption.
Serbia's preparations for decentralized management of EU funds, but only in the limited area of IPA management structures .
A quarter of the IPA budget for Serbia has gone to the area of governance, which the Commission says poses the greatest challenges for that country.
The EU complements IPA funding with a range of non - financial means to support Serbia in its preparation for EU membership .
Our activities 30 Administration The administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes expenditure on staff (salaries and pensions), buildings, equipment, energy, communications and information technology .
The planned budget for the period 2014-2020 is – in current prices – €70 billion or 6% of the total EU budget .
, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: • How do the EU institutions and bodies calculate, reduce and offset their greenhouse gas emissions ?
(14/2014) – In this special report, we assessed whether the EU institutions and bodies had policies in place to reduce the impact of their administrative activities on the environment and whether these policies were being implemented effectively.
In the report, the Court called on the EU institutions and bodies to develop a common policy to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions ( 'carbon footprint') .
is slow and the available information on the actual level of emissions is patchy.
Few institutions and bodies make systematic use of green procurement .
While the EU institutions and bodies have managed to reverse the trend of increasing greenhouse gas emissions associated with energy use in their buildings, the available data have not identified clear trends of reductions from other sources of emissions, such as business travel.
had not set any quantified targets for reducing their emissions.
The environmental policy of the EU aims for a high level of protection .
According to the Treaty (TFEU), environmental protection requirements must be integrated into the definition and implementation of Union policies and activities promoting sustainable development.
Our activities 31 Revenue/Own resources Own resources are the EU's revenue used to finance its expenditure.
There are three types of own resources : traditional own resources (customs duties levied on imports from outside the EU and production taxes on sugar), VAT-based own resources and GNI-derived own resources (the main source of revenue for the EU budget) .
, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: • Are preferential trade arrangements adequately managed ?
(No. 2/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the Commission adequately assessed the economic impact of preferential trade arrangements and whether the controls are effective in ensuring that imports cannot be wrongly subject to preferential tariffs , with the consequence a loss of EU revenue .
The audit found that, while the Commission has improved the quality of its impact assessments over time, it still does not adequately analyze the economic impact of preferential trading schemes.
The EU is losing revenue due to weaknesses in Member States' customs controls: these controls do not prevent some imports from being incorrectly subject to preferential tariffs .
Through unilateral preferential trade arrangements, the EU grants developing countries preferences to give them duty-free access to the EU market , thereby helping to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development.
In 2011, the value of goods imported into the EU under preferential trade arrangements was more than 242 billion euros; this corresponds to 14% of imports into the EU.
Our activities 32 Fiscal and economic governance The European Union's framework for economic governance aims to prevent or identify and correct problematic economic developments, such as excessive government deficits or debt levels, which hamper growth and reduce the sustainability of public finances can expose to risk.
In 2014 we adopted our first special report in this area: • European banking supervision taking shape - The EBA in a changing environment (5/2014) - In this special report we examined whether the Commission and the European Banking Authority ( EBA ) have satisfactorily exercised their responsibilities with regard to establishing new rules for the regulatory and supervisory system in the banking sector and how effectively these rules have functioned.
The audit found that the Commission-led reform of banking legislation and the establishment of the EBA were important first responses to the financial crisis.
The EBA laid the foundations for a new regulatory and supervisory system for the banking sector .
The weaknesses identified related to cross-border banking supervision, the assessment of the resilience of EU banks and the promotion of consumer protection.
In connection with the implementation of the 2011 stress test, which was carried out without financial backstop measures at EU level, the EBA only had a limited legal mandate and scarce human resources.
Although the 2011 stress test led to the recapitalization of numerous banks, it also highlighted that such stress tests are subject to limitations if they are not accompanied by an assessment of overall asset quality.
Questions remain about the future role of the EBA in banking supervision and the respective roles and responsibilities of the EBA and the ECB.
, the Commission launched banking sector stabilization measures aimed at strengthening the regulatory framework and banking supervision, in particular for banks operating cross - border.
The EBA was created in 2011 as part of the detailed proposals for changes in the area of regulation.
The EBA plays a role in overseeing European banking regulation and consumer protection.
Our activities 33 Opinions and other communications adopted in 2014 The Court contributes to improving EU financial management by providing opinions on proposals for new or amended legislation with a financial impact .
These opinions are issued at the request of the other EU institutions and are used by the legislative authorities - the European Parliament and the Council - in their work .
The Court may also issue position papers and analyzes on other issues on its own initiative .
At the Court's initiative, the position of the European Court of Auditors on the Commission's anti - corruption report was presented, while the study on possible savings in the EU budget by consolidating the activities of the European Parliament in a single place at the request of the European Parliament was created.
7 opinions in 2014
Our Activities 34 Landscape ‐ Analyzes The year 2014 was marked by far-reaching changes for the European Union.
Against the background of this change, the court conceived and created a new product: the landscape analysis .
Based on the results of the Court's work and its wealth of knowledge and experience , a broad range of topics is dealt with in each analysis.
The analyzes are intended to serve as a basis for consultation and dialogue with the Court's stakeholders and to help the Court to provide observations on important issues that are not normally subject to audit .
analysis, published in September 2014, addressed EU accountability and public audit regulations ( see box). This analysis formed the main basis for the Conference on EU Accountability held in October 2014 (see page 42) .
The second analysis , entitled 'Making the best use of EU funds : A landscape analysis of the risks to EU financial management ' , was published in November 2014.
's financial flows and a summary of the issues to be addressed to ensure , among other things, that EU taxpayers get better value for money in terms of the EU budget can (see box).
The full opinions and landscape analyzes are available in 23 official EU languages on the Court 's website (eca.europa.eu) .
2 2 Landscape analyzes in 2014
Our Activities 35 Gaps, Overlaps and Challenges: A Landscape ‐ Analysis of the EU ‐ Arrangements on Accountability and Public Audit is of the utmost importance and to give impetus to related considerations .
It describes the key features of an accountability framework, the role of public audit , the key elements for a robust chain of accountability and audit, and six key areas where accountability and public governance challenges are being addressed at EU level pass financial control. It also analyzes the accountability and auditing regimes in relation to the various new EU and intergovernmental instruments that have been developed in response to the financial crisis.
EU ‐ Making the Most of Funds: A Landscape ‐ Analysis of the Risks to EU ‐ Financial Management At a time when Member State governments and taxpayers want more value from the funds they contribute, we are in this Landscape Analysis summarizes the Court's observations on all aspects of EU financial management .
Based on the Court's 35 years of experience auditing EU revenue and expenditure, this landscape analysis provides an overview of EU financial management and a summary of the issues that need to be addressed to ensure that a better cost - benefit ratio is achieved with the EU budget .
This analysis is complemented by detailed fact sheets on the key characteristics and issues linked to the various revenue and expenditure areas , and suggestions for improvement are made.
Our activities 36 The analysis identifies a number of key issues that deserve particular attention: ο overly complex eligibility rules and other conditions for EU funding that make them difficult to understand , manage and control and lead to different interpretations; ο Public procurement rules and procedures that are not always respected – either intentionally or because they are not properly understood – and thus result in higher costs or delays in EU - funded projects; ο the insufficient capacity of national authorities to manage and disburse EU funds , which increases the risk of errors and low-quality spending; ο the poor coordination of the EU budget and national budgets, a lack of resources for co-financing by Member States and a greater emphasis on compliance than on achieving results; ο a high volume of commitments from the previous spending period that have yet to be funded from the EU budget .
Accountability Framework for EU Management and Auditing European Parliament and Council (MS) European Audit Court of Auditors European Commission and MS Managing Authorities Diagram from the Landscape Analysis of the EU ‐ Accountability and Public Audit Arrangements .
Accountability-related reporting: transparency Responsibility for implementing the EU budget under the Treaties Audit reporting: independent, objective information Audit mandate under the Treaties
Our activities 37 Relations with stakeholders The value of the Court's contribution to EU accountability depends to a large extent on the use of its work and products to its key partners in the accountability process .
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funds (ie European Parliament , Council of the EU and national parliaments).
's strategy for 2013-2017 requires it to put more effort into monitoring external developments and actively shaping relations with its partners.
The President and the Members of the Court maintain regular contacts with the committees of the European Parliament , in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control .
In 2014, President Caldeira attended two meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and a number of plenary sessions of the European Parliament.
This included the presentation of the annual work program and the annual reports.
One of the Court 's strategic objectives is to strengthen partnerships with its key stakeholders , including the various specialized committees of the European Parliament and the Council.
In April 2014, the Court delegated the newly created post of Institutional Relations Member to Ville Itälä. This helped to strategically strengthen our institution's relationships with other EU institutions and increase the chances of our work having a greater impact.
In 2014, other members of the Court answered questions on the Court 's annual and special reports 64 times in 17 meetings before the Budgetary Control Committee .
The ensuing discussions ‐ resulted in reports drafted by individual members of the Committee on Budgetary Control on the Court's special reports; this also includes a draft report on the special reports in connection with the 2013 discharge procedure .
In 2014, the Committee on Budgetary Control began to systematically invite the specialist committees to the presentation of our special reports at its meetings , thus contributing to the increased impact of our work.
In early 2014, the European Parliament adopted a report on the future role of the European Court of Auditors.
The Court welcomed the view expressed in this report that any reform needs to be seen in the broader context of the challenge of improving EU accountability .
This applies in particular to the Court's work, its relations with the addressees and its use of resources.
progress made on these issues was highlighted in the peer review report published in 2014 ( see “Key Events”).
Our activities 38 In many cases, as part of the implementation of our 2013-2017 strategy, the Court had already launched a number of improvement initiatives . This includes streamlining the audit and reporting process and making resources more flexible.
This resulted in more reports being written during the year and the average time taken to do so was reduced.
Further efficiency gains and increased effectiveness of the audit process are expected from the internal reform project initiated in 2014.
In a November 2013 resolution, the European Parliament asked the Court to provide a comprehensive analysis of the potential savings for the EU budget if the Parliament had a single seat. Savings due to less lost working time and greater efficiency should also be taken into account.
The Court presented the result of this work in July 2014 and concluded that significant savings could be achieved by moving from Strasbourg to Brussels, slightly increased by an additional move from Luxembourg to Brussels.
In 2014 the Court continued to work regularly with the Council in its various configurations and activities.
President Caldeira presented the annual reports to the ECOFIN Council in December 2014 and the Court was regularly asked to present special reports to the various committees and working groups of the Council.
Ensuring effective relations with national parliaments is another priority for the Court.
The committees responsible for European affairs and financial control in the national parliaments are regularly informed about the Court's activities.
During the year, delegations from several national parliaments visited the Court; this included a visit by a delegation from the French Senate in July 2014.
In addition, the Court invited key stakeholders to its Members ' annual seminar in December 2014 to present its perspective on the accountability challenges in the EU.
The Court works with the European Anti - Fraud Office ( OLAF) to fight fraud against the EU budget .
to OLAF any allegations of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the EU, which he identifies in the course of his audit work or which is communicated to him by third parties.
In 2014, we communicated 16 cases to OLAF where our audit work suspected fraud, corruption or illegal activity.
Our Activities 39 Cooperation with other Supreme Audit Institutions The Court mainly cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions ( SAIs) in the following bodies : • Contact Committee of SAIs of the EU - Member States ; • Network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • International organizations of public audit bodies , in particular the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions ( INTOSAI ) and its European regional group (EUROSAI).
In September 2014, we revised and updated our international cooperation strategy (see box).
EUROSAI ‐ Congress, The Hague, June 2014.
Court's international cooperation strategy The Court's cooperation strategy, in line with its overall strategy 2013-2017, aims to maximize the contribution to EU public accountability, in particular through enhanced bilateral and multilateral cooperation with relevant partners such as national supreme audit institutions and international audit organizations.
As the Court's audit duties extend to areas that have pan‐European (e.g. fiscal governance) and global (e.g. climate change) implications , our work in the field of international cooperation becomes even more relevant than in the past.
The Court's priorities in its cooperation strategy are: ο Cooperation at EU level - through the Contact Committee and individual cooperation with the SAIs of the EU - Member States will remain the main priorities.
This may include participation in joint audits and joint work on accountability relevant to the EU budget and other EU policies . ο In the context of EU enlargement , the Court will continue to support the SAIs of candidate and potential candidate countries in their capacity - building activities. ο As a member of international auditing organizations such as INTOSAI, the Court will increase its involvement in collaborative activities on professional standard setting, given the importance of this organization for the development of expertise and for the exchange of knowledge in the public audit sector.
Through its cooperation strategy, in conjunction with other recent actions such as the newly launched high-level conferences and meetings, the Court will help raise awareness of EU - financial management and EU - accountability.
Our Activities 40 Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU - Member States In accordance with the EU - Treaty, the European Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies - while respecting their independence - work together in a spirit of trust .
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of the EU Member States through the Contact Committee . This includes an annual meeting and the various working groups, networks and task forces set up to address specific issues of common interest.
In October 2013, the Court chaired the Contact Committee for one year .
As Chair, we hosted the annual Contact Committee meeting, which took place in October 2014.
The main items on the agenda included a seminar on strengthening cooperation in particular in areas related to the Europe 2020 strategy and the Banking Union, reporting on the activities of the Contact Committee and its technical partners, and audits carried out by Contact Committee members with EU reference .
The Court also works with the SAIs of the EU Member States on a bilateral basis .
, Najwyższa Izba Kontroli, where the auditors from the Polish SAI actively participated in our audit work in Poland on animal disease eradication, control and surveillance.
In addition, the Court cooperates with the SAIs of Poland and Portugal on Europe 2020 in the context of the chapter on results - delivery of the FY2014 Annual Report.
Meeting of the Contact Committee in Luxembourg on 15-17 October 2014.
Our Activities 41 Network of Supreme Audit Institutions of Candidate and Potential Candidate Countries Cooperation between the Court and the SAIs of the candidate and potential candidate countries occurs primarily through a network1 similar to the Contact Committee .
During 2014, the Court supported the network in conducting a parallel performance audit on energy efficiency , in particular by providing experts in the field and in the methodology of the performance audit .
International organizations of public audit bodies In 2014, the Court continued to be fully and actively involved in INTOSAI's activities and made important contributions to various committees and working groups: • as part of INTOSAI's Goal 1 as a member of the Committee on professional standards and as a member of the Financial Audit Subcommittee, the Legal Compliance Subcommittee and the Performance Audit Subcommittee ; • INTOSAI Goal 2 as a member of the Capacity Building Committee and the Subcommittee on Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews; • as part of INTOSAI's Goal 3 as a member of the Knowledge Sharing Committee and its Working Group on Environmental Auditing and the Working Group on Financial Modernization and Regulatory Reform. The court participated in the IX. EUROSAI ‐ Congress in June 2014. In this context he organized and hosted a workshop on “Measuring your performance”.
He also took part in the XLI . and the XLII. Meeting of the EUROSAI Governing Board , of which he has been a member since 2011. The Court continued to participate actively in the EUROSAI working bodies, in particular the IT and environmental auditing working groups, the monitoring committee for the establishment and operation of the electronic good practice database on audit quality , and the audit and ethics task force .
The Court also joined the newly established Disaster Assistance Audit Working Group .
Within the joint conferences of INTOSAI regional working groups, the Court actively participated in the II ASOSAI2 - EUROSAI Joint Conference , which focused on the lessons learned from the experience gained in relation to the adoption of the ISSAI3 and their implications for the future.
1 As of January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and one potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has participated in the network as an observer. * This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the International Court of Justice Opinion on Kosovo's Declaration of Independence.
2 Asian Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions.
3 International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions.
, the Court requested the SAIs of France, Germany and Sweden to carry out a peer review of its performance audit practice .
The peer review drew on the experiences of all three partners and was a very useful exercise for both the Court and the peer reviewers.
The methodology was based on generally accepted criteria for the work of SAIs and took into account the guidelines set out in international standards.
The peer review was published on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu) in 2014.
The peers concluded that the Court had made significant progress since the last peer review in 2008 .
The Court had examined the challenges posed by the EU's complex institutional framework and had taken a number of steps to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of its audits and the quality of its audit reports.
Conducting international peer reviews is encouraged in international auditing standards .
These allow Supreme Audit Institutions to receive a voluntary assessment of how they perform their duties, based on international standards.
In 2014, the Court led the peer review of the Supreme Audit Institution of Lithuania and was asked to assess the Federal Audit Office and participate in peer reviews of the SAIs of Spain and Latvia .
High Level Conference on Improving Accountability in the EU From left to right: Jacques Sciberras, Head of Cabinet, Kevin Cardiff, Member of the Court, President Vítor Caldeira and EP - Vice-President Olli Rehn.
In October 2014, the Court organized a high-level conference bringing together a wide range of people responsible for ensuring that the European Union is accountable for the public funds used to achieve its objectives.
The theme of the conference was the gaps, overlaps and challenges at EU and Member State level identified in the Court 's landscape analysis of EU accountability and public audit arrangements (see page 35) .
The conference provided an opportunity for discussion among the participants, including members or representatives of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Court of Justice, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Stability Mechanism, national audit offices and academia . How these arrangements should be developed in response to developments in economic , fiscal and monetary integration was discussed .
with regard to central banks and supervisory authorities, crisis and post - crisis structures , increasing the leverage of EU funds through external participation and a stronger focus on EU service delivery.
The conference participants agreed that there is a need for greater cooperation between government agencies , parliaments and auditors at EU and Member State level in order to give the public a better picture of how EU policies and programs are performing .
Our activities 43 Strengthening partnerships with national authorities in Lithuania A high-level ECA delegation visited Lithuania in September 2014 to strengthen partnerships with the country's parliament, government, central bank and SAI, and to improve the best use and scrutiny of the EU ‐ to promote spending there.
The Court and our partners in Lithuania shared priorities for ‐ improving EU ‐ accountability and how, by working together, they could best contribute to promoting the added value of EU spending and ‐ policy makers and the parliament in Lithuania at the best use of the Court's audit results.
During the visit, the Court's delegation actively participated in the Lithuanian Parliament's conference on the challenges of accountability and auditing in the public sector .
In addition, the delegation and its partners discussed issues of fiscal and economic governance and the benefits that Lithuania's entry into the euro area on 1 January 2015 will bring to the country.
was the first of a number of EU Member States that the Court intends to visit in the coming years in order to strengthen partnerships with the national authorities responsible for the management and control of EU funds .
Our management 44 The Court's College The Court's College consists of one member from each Member State.
According to the contract, the term of office of the members of the Court is six years, renewable.
The members are assigned to one of five chambers.
The chambers accept audit reports and opinions and make decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues.
In addition, each member is responsible for their own tasks, which are primarily audit-related tasks.
The underlying audit work is carried out by the Court's auditors and coordinated by the Member responsible, assisted by his cabinet.
The member then takes on the task of presenting the report for approval by the Chamber and/or the entire Court College and later presenting it to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties, including the media.
In 2014, the Council of the European Union appointed six new members of the European Court of Auditors, following proposals from their Member States and after consulting the European Parliament.
Four of these members – Alex Brenninkmeijer (Netherlands), Danièle Lamarque (France), Nikolaos Milionis (Greece) and Phil Wynn Owen (UK) – were welcomed by the Court on 1 January, as well as two others – Klaus - Heiner Lehne (Germany) and Oskar Herics (Austria) - were welcomed on March 1st, 2014.
On 23 January 2014, the 28 members of the Court re-elected Vítor Caldeira as President of the Court for a third triennium.
The President is responsible for overseeing the fulfillment of the Court's mission and represents the institution externally.
Members of the Court at the end of 2014.
ECA Members' meeting on 27 October 2014.
Our Management 45 Igors LUDBORŽS Latvia Lazaros S. LAZAROU Cyprus Henrik OTBO († 01.02.2015) Denmark Dean EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 31 December 2014 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Chamber I - Conservation and Management of Natural Resources Dean Rasa BUDBERGYTĖ Lithuania Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Doyen Milan Martin CVIKL Slovenia Jan KINŠT Czech Republic Kersti KALJULAID Estonia Augustyn KUBIK Poland Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Oskar HERICS Austria Doyen Doyen Ladislav BALKO Slovakia Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria George PUFAN Romania Phil WYNN OWEN United Kingdom Klaus-Heiner LEHNE Germany Louis GALEA Malta Pietro RUSSO Italy Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Neven MATES Croatia Alex BRENNINKMEIJER Netherlands Chamber II - Structural Policies, Transport and Energy CEAD Chamber - Coordination, Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development For institutional rela Member Responsible Ville ITÄLÄ Finland Chamber III - External Policies Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Danièle LAMARQUE France Chamber IV - Revenue, Research and Internal Policies and European Union Institutions and Bodies
Our management 46 Court's strategy 2013-2017 : progress made 2014 was the second year in which the Court implemented its strategy for the period 2013-2017.
, the aim is to maximize the value of the Court's contribution to EU public accountability .
In order to achieve this goal, the Court's main priorities are: ο targeting the Court's products to improve EU accountability; ο working with other stakeholders to enhance the Court's contribution to EU accountability; ο further development of the Court as a professional audit body; ο making the best use of the knowledge, expertise and expertise available to the Court; ο Demonstrate the Court's effectiveness and accountability.
In 2014, the strategy initiated a profound transformation of the Court's organizational structure.
Two internal working groups dealing with the strategy (“Streamlining of the audit process” and “Better definition of tasks and responsibilities”) presented their results.
This coincided with the European Parliament's report on the future role of the ECA and the results of the peer review process that the Court underwent .
The various recommendations were summarized in a far-reaching reform project, the implementation of which began at the end of 2014 and will last until mid-2016.
In the case of special reports, this means that they should be produced in a shorter time, in the case of the annual report, more focus and resource savings are sought.
Second ‐ the court is to be converted into a task-based organization.
This will enable him to better focus resources on those audits and analyzes that bring the most added value to EU citizens .
Our management 47 Measuring the Court's performance The Court has used key performance indicators (KPIs) since 2008 to inform management of progress towards its objectives, to support the decision-making process and to provide its stakeholders with information on performance to shake hands
The ALIs reflect the Court's priorities and provide insight into its performance and accountability as a professional audit body.
The indicators are designed to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, paying particular attention to the perspective of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
The ZLI were updated for the period covered by the strategy 2013 - 2017.
User judgments Relevantness of reports Likely impact of reports Quality and impact of the Court's work The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports through user judgments and peer reviews. Another evaluation criterion are the measures that are taken on the basis of his recommendations to improve EU financial management .
In addition, the Court measures its media presence.
Assess by users The Court has asked its key users – the Committees on Budgetary Control and Budgets of the European Parliament, the Budget Committee of the Council, the main auditees in the Commission and the EU Agencies and the Presidents of the EU – SAIs – to to rate the relevance and impact of its reports published in 2014 on a five-point scale from “very high” to “very low”.
2 100% very low 13 56 25 4 13 53 25 9 0% 20% very high 40% 60% 80% high medium low The responses show that 94% of the key users consider the ECA's reports to be of value to their work rate as relevant (2013 : 98%). 91% consider that the Court's work is having an impact (2013: 94%).
Our management 48 Expert reviews Each year, independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports to assess quality. In 2014, the reviewers assessed eight special reports and the 2013 annual reports.
They rated the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-point scale from “seriously impaired” (1) to “high” (4) .
Expert reviews of the Court's reports The results, which have been very constant over the past few years, are an indication of the satisfactory quality of the Court's reports.
100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 4 3 2 1 0 2.8 3.0 3.0 3.1 2011 2012 2013 2014 Recommendation follow-up The in its audit reports The recommendations made are a core tool for the Court to help improve EU financial management .
Some recommendations can be implemented quickly, while others require more time due to their complexity.
At the end of 2014, 69% of the almost six hundred recommendations that the Court made in the period 2011-2014 had been implemented .
This represents an increase from the 60% implementation rate recorded in 2013 for recommendations made in 2010-2013 .
91% 65% 58% 60% 2014 2013 2012 2011 Rating of quality
Our management 49 Media exposure The indicator relating to the Court's media exposure reflects the Court's impact in the media.
It concerns the strategic objective of raising awareness of the Court, its products and its audit findings and conclusions.
In 2014, the Court identified more than 5 100 online articles related to its special reports, the 2013 annual reports and the institution in general.
40% of these concerned audit reports, the remaining articles referred to the institution and its work in general.
Over 800 articles have been published on the ECA's Airports Special Report Implementation of the work program The Court plans its audits and other tasks against the annual work program and monitors progress throughout the year.
In 2014 we carried out 95 % of the tasks foreseen in our work program (2013: 90 %) .
While work on the annual reports and annual special reports was on track, 85% (2013: 70%) of the special reports were on track.
were not completed in 2014 were carried over to 2015.
Media reference topics 29 11 60 0 % 20 % Special reports 40 % 60 % Annual reports 2013 80 % The Court in general 100 % Efficiency and effectiveness in using resources The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources in terms of its ability to implement its work programme, carry out tests in a timely manner and guarantee the professional competence of its employees.
Implementation of ECA work program 2014 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Annual reports Special reports Special annual reports Other tasks Total 100% 100% 100% 95% 85%
Our management 50 Preparation of special reports For the Court's special reports to be effective, they must be presented in a timely manner.
In recent years the Court has managed to reduce the time required for the audits.
The 2013-2017 strategy aims to achieve further improvements in this area and this strategy is expected to deliver measurable results in the coming years .
process the special reports produced in 2014 In 2014 the Court produced 24 special reports, of which 42 % (2013: 37 %) were completed within the Court's target timeframe of 18 months.
The average time taken to produce the special reports adopted in 2014 was 19 months (2013 : 20 months).
100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 10-18 months 10 SB 18-26 months 13 SB 4% More than 26 months 1 SB 54% 42% Professional development In line with International Federation of Accountants Accountants, IFAC) published guidelines, we aim to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (5 days) of professional development ( excluding language courses).
Training days per auditor per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 10 2012 2013 2014 Average number of training days for auditors (excluding language courses) The Court again exceeded the target for the professional development of auditors, demonstrating the importance it attaches to staff development attaches.
With 6.4 Target ≥ 5 days 5.2 5.8 taking the language courses into account, in 2014 an average of 10 training days were allotted to one examiner. days
Support for audit activities Human resources Staff allocation In the wake of the difficult public finance situation in Europe , the Court continued the five-year ( 2013-2017 ) staff reduction of 1% per year, as set out in the Interinstitutional Agreement on Budgetary Discipline and the sound financial management of December 2013 .
As a result, in 2014 the staffing level was reduced from 891 to 882 officials and temporary agents (excluding members, contract agents, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of the total posts, 561 are assigned to the examination chambers ( including 113 staff members in the Members' cabinets).
With a view to the goal of the best possible use of resources , in 2014 possibilities for increasing efficiency by simplifying processes were again identified and implemented in all activities.
The reallocation of staff from support to audit services also continued in 2014.
However, this has been offset by the reallocation of certain support services from Members' cabinets to an administrative pool and the transfer of the Communications and Institutional Relations Unit to the President's services .
51 Attitude The Court's staff come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff consists of both officials and temporary staff .
In 2014, an internal selection procedure for salary grade AST 1 and a selection procedure with a view to hiring a spokesman were carried out.
The Court also made internships available to 77 university graduates for periods of between three and five months throughout the year.
The Court recruited 78 staff in 2014, consisting of 31 officials, 29 temporary agents, 13 contract agents and five seconded national experts.
The number of vacancies has been close to 3% since 2011 (27 vacancies as of December 31, 2014).
Distribution of Court posts at 31 December 2014 2012 2013 2014 Audit Services 573 576 561 Translation 143 147 141 Administration 139 137 141 Presidential Services 32 31 39 Total 887 891 882
Supporting audit activities 52 Gender balance Like the other EU institutions , the Court applies an equal opportunities policy in human resources management and recruitment.
After a steady increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now achieved a balanced 50% male and 50% female workforce .
The chart below shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as of December 31 , 2014, which has changed little in recent years.
men and women by staff category in 2014 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Assistants - Secretaries Auditors - Board members Men Management Women 66% 41% 59% 31% 69% 34%
Supporting audit activities 53 Managers by nationality and gender on 31 December 2014 Female Male Nationality1 Directors Heads of Unit 4 Belgium 1 3 1 Bulgaria 1 1 Czech Republic 1 1 1 Denmark 2 3 4 Germany 1 6 1 Estonia 1 3 Ireland 1 2 1 2 Greece 1 2 3 4 Spain 1 6 8 France 1 7 1 Croatia 1 1 2 Italy 3 Cyprus 1 Latvia 1 1 1 Lithuania 1 1 Luxembourg 1 Hungary 1 1 Malta 1 1 1 Netherlands 2 1 Austria 1 1 Poland 1 2 1 Portugal 3 1 Romania 1st 1 Slovenia 1 1 Slovakia 1 1 Finland 1 1 Sweden 1 1 8 United Kingdom 4 5 21 46 Total 11 56 1 In the order of protocol of the Member States.
Supporting audit activities 54 The Equal Opportunities Action Plan aims to achieve gender balance at all levels of the Court.
After the latest waves of recruitment, 48% of staff in grades AD 5 to AD 8 are women (an increase from 43% in 2009).
Age profile The age profile of the active staff at 31 December 2014 shows that 53 % of the Court's staff are aged 44 or younger.
20-24 0.1% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0.3% As in the next five to ten years a renewal in the upper management positions is to be expected, the growing proportion of women in the function group AD will mean that more women will be found in management positions in the future .
27 (40%) of the 67 Directors and Heads of Unit are aged 55 or over.
As a result, there will be renewal in senior management positions over the next five to ten years as they retire.
2.4% 10.3% 19.2% 21.9% 18.1% 14.3% 3.9% 9.4%
Support for Audit Activities 55 Support Services Professional Development In order to develop the Court as a professional audit body and to make the best use of the knowledge, skills and expertise it has at its disposal, continuous training of staff is necessary to keep pace with professional developments and new ones to acquire skills.
In 2014, the Court's staff (auditors and other staff) received an average of eight days of professional development.
The share of language courses in vocational training continues to decline.
In 2014, this accounted for 43% of the total number of training days (compared to 46% in 2013).
In order to make the best possible use of the available resources and technologies, the farm has been offering its employees individually tailored e - learning courses and advanced training measures in the form of blended learning since 2014, in which the participants - before the face-to-face event - learn the general theory in complete an online training course .
, presentations by internal and external experts on developments in auditing and other relevant areas continued to be organized as part of the aim of sharing internal knowledge and updating the Court 's auditors on developments in public sector auditing .
Translation Translation is an audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfill its mission and communication objectives, which are to make the results it produces available in the languages of EU citizens .
In 2014, the total translation volume was 4% higher than in 2013.
More than 98% of translations were completed on time.
In addition to normal translation work, the Translation Directorate continued to increase the direct involvement of translators in the Court's audit and core business: translators provided linguistic support in 40 audit visits across the EU and in the drafting of audit reports .
, the Translation Directorate focused on quality assurance.
To this end, the first manual for quality assurance in the translation sector was approved and a system for customer feedback was developed .
Finally, in order to make the services more efficient, the translation process was reviewed and optimized. Automation of the process has started in cooperation with the Information Technologies Directorate.
Support for the audit activities 56 All processes related to the development and provision of instruments were carried out with the guarantee of safety and continuity of operation: For example, in 2014 after moving into the new K3 building , a comprehensive test was carried out for re - commissioning after a collapse of the IT systems ( disaster recovery) were carried out, and central IT components were also modernized (e.g. initiation of the migration of the Court 's e - mail system ).
Management and infrastructure The role of the Finance and Support Services Directorate ‐ is to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfill its mission and strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary funding ‐ , internal Controls and accounting mechanisms are in place to support all of the Court 's activities.
In 2014, the management continued to focus on making its activities even more efficient and economical.
system for the farm is currently being developed, in line with the principles of the Community Eco - Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), with certification to be achieved by the end of 2016.
In 2014, several actions were successfully implemented, yielding tangible results and demonstrating the Court's commitment to the environment . These included: • Adopting an environmental policy; • Carrying out an environmental analysis and an audit of compliance with environmental law; • Increased the number of employee environmental awareness campaigns from four in 2013 to eight in 2014 ; • Obtaining BREEAM environmental certification ( the world 's leading method for the design and assessment of sustainable buildings) for the K3 building and retaining the certification mark for good waste management; • Promoting sustainable transport among employees by providing a new bicycle room with showers and changing areas for cyclists, by installing a charging station for electric cars and by reserving good parking spaces for carpooling .
Support for audit activities 57 Financial information The Court is funded from the general budget of the European Union .
The Court's budget accounts for around 0.093% of total EU expenditure and 1.58% of total administrative expenditure.
In 2014, the implementation rate of the total available budget was 98.8% compared to 92% in 2013.
The higher fill rate is primarily due to better estimation and planning of spend on Title 1, which achieved an average fill rate of 98.8%.
For Title 2, the average fill rate was 98.4%.
Implementation of the 2014 budget Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 15 190 93 180 4 191 3 350 2 629 118 540 2 564 7 199 1 543 552 703 2,397 14,958 133,498 14,554 92,774 4,113 3,119 2,592,117 152 2,541 7,199 1,541 532,649 2,264 14,726 131,878 96% 90% 90% 91% 90% 93% 91% 90% 93% 98% 93% % 96 % 92 % 94 % 98 % 99 % (1 000 euros) 14 420 92 745 4 071 2 641 1 957 115 834 1 830 3 581 686 450 466 1 316 8 329 124 163 162 - Missions 1. Subtotal Title 20 - Buildings 210 - Computers and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and associated costs 23 - Current administrative expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Subtotal Title 2 European Court of Auditors Total Payments 1 Initially adopted budget and appropriations carried over during the year. % use of appropriations (commitments/ appropriations allocated) FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 Final estimates1 Commitments 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure for Members and staff of the institution Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous administrative expenditure
Support for audit activities 58 2015 budget The appropriations in the 2015 budget show a decrease of 0.4% compared to 2014 .
Budget 2015 Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution2 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 2 669 118 381 3 080 7 152 785 426 717 2 365 14 525 132 906 15 175 93 180 4 096 3700 2 612 118 763 3 350 7 110 808 438 768 2 261 14 735 133 498 BUDGET1 162-Mission 20 - Buildings Subtotal Title 1 161 , 161 Other Expenditure for Members the institution's staff 2015 (EUR 1 000) 2014 (EUR 1 000) Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and various administrative expenses 210 - Computers and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and associated expenses 23 - Current administrative expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Subtotal Title 2 Total Court of Auditors 1 The figures in the table correspond to the budget initially adopted.
2 Following the Commission's proposal to include expenditure on the pensions of former Members of all EU institutions in the Commission's section of the budget , which already includes expenditure on the pensions of staff of all institutions, expenditure on the pensions of the former Members of the Court transferred to the Commission's section in the 2015 adopted budget.
's internal audit The internal auditor advises the Court on risk control issues by providing opinions on the quality of the management and control systems and recommendations for improving the conditions under which transactions are carried out and promoting sound economics hand over housekeeping.
In addition, the internal auditor supports the work of the external auditor, whose mandate is to certify the annual accounts of the Court.
The internal auditor reported to the Court on the results of the audits carried out during 2014, the findings, the recommendations and the actions taken on those recommendations.
The Court reports annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal auditor's work.
In October 2014, the Court's internal audit was certified as compliant with the Institute of Internal Auditors (IAA) definition of internal audit, code of practice and standards.
This certification was the result of a comprehensive quality assessment of the Court's internal audit, carried out by an external evaluator - Deloitte SARL - at the request of the Internal Auditor and the Internal Audit Committee. It also complied with the IIA's international standards for the professional practice of internal auditing.
External audit of the Court The annual accounts of the Court are audited by an independent auditor .
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach of applying to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the entities it audits .
The auditor's report - Pricewaterhouse - Coopers SARL - on the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013 was published on September 18, 2014.
's Opinions - Financial Year 2013 Concerning the financial statements: "In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2013, its results of operations and cash flows for the an year ending on that date in accordance with Regulation (EU, Eur ‐ atom) No. 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of the Commission of 29 October 2012 on the rules of application of the Financial Regulation in all essential respects and taking into account the stated assessment criteria • the funds allocated to the Court have not been used for the ‐ intended purposes and • the control procedures put in place do not provide the necessary guarantee that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the rules and regulations in force. ”
Declaration of the 60 Authorizing Officer by Delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as Authorizing Officer by Delegation, • • ‐ ‐ - that the information contained in this report is true and accurate, and certifies with reasonable assurance that the funds allocated to the activities described in this report have been used for their intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the established control procedures offer the necessary guarantee for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for an appropriate handling of allegations or suspicions of fraud , the costs and benefits of the controls are reasonable .
This security is based on the undersigned's assessment and the information available to him, e.g. B. the reports and declarations of the authorizing officers by sub ‐ delegation, the reports of the internal auditor and the opinions of the independent auditor for previous financial years .
Done at Luxembourg, February 26, 2015 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN 2015 activity report
02 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA Much more information on the European Union are available on the Internet, server Europa (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2016 Print ISBN 978-92-872-4091-0 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-4084-2 EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-4066-8 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315- 3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/880265 doi:10.2865/420922 doi:10.2865/528320 QJ-AA-16-001-DE-C QJ-AA-16-001-DE-N QJ-AA-16-001- DE-E © European Union, 2016 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors GUARDIANS OF THE EU ‐ FINANCES
European Court of Auditors 02 About the Court The European Court of Auditors is the European Union's independent external audit body, based in Luxembourg.
It has 28 members – one from each EU Member State – and employs around 900 audit and administrative staff from all EU Member States.
Since its creation in 1977, the Court has worked to improve EU financial management and accounting.
The Court's tasks The Court checks that EU funds are correctly accounted for, raised and spent in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations and that funds are used as efficiently as possible.
It warns of risks, provides reassurance and guides EU policy-makers on how to improve public finance management and ensure that European citizens know how their money is being spent.
Through its audit work and other activities, the Court contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and sustainability of the European Union.
Contents 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 Foreword by the President 5 2015 at a glance 5 Our activities 5 Our management 6-40 Our activities 6-9 Audits 10-13 Annual reports 14 Special annual reports 15-33 Special reports 34 Opinions 35-36 High-level events and conferences 37-38 Relations with stakeholders 39-40 Cooperation with SAIs 41-49 Our management 41-42 The Court’s College 43-45 The Court’s strategy for 2013-2017 46-49 Measuring performance 50-59 Supporting audit activities 50- 53 Human resources 53-55 Support services 56-57 Financial information 58-59 Audit and accountability 60 Declaration of the authorizing officer by delegation
Foreword by the President 04 Dear readers, In 2015, to which this activity report relates, the European Union once again faced major challenges. There have been significant developments in EU governance, policy and financial management, including the creation of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) and the launch of the Single Resolution Mechanism for banks in the euro area.
These and other developments have resulted in new audit tasks for the Court.
In 2015 we continued to audit the activities of the EU institutions and other bodies, as well as all EU funds paid to Member States, countries outside the EU, international organizations and other recipients.
In accordance with our obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we have prepared annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Funds, as well as specific annual reports on the accounts of over 50 EU agencies and other bodies.
In addition, we prepared 25 special reports on numerous topics, the results of which are summarized in this activity report.
We would like to draw your attention in particular to two special reports: our report on the emissions trading system, which shows that our work goes beyond purely financial matters, and our report on financial assistance to countries in difficulty, which is part of a series of new special reports on the financial and economic governance.
In addition, over the past year we have issued eight opinions on new or amended EU legislation with significant financial implications, including one on the EFSI regulation.
In order to make a difference with our work, we need to share the lessons learned with stakeholders at EU and national level.
During the year we continued to deepen our cooperation with the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union – our key partners in ensuring EU accountability.
We presented the results of our audits to an increasing number of technical committees of these bodies, and we took their concerns into account when planning future audits.
In addition, ECA members made high-level visits to Member States to strengthen partnerships with national authorities, parliaments and audit bodies.
In 2015 we organized two notable conferences: one in Brussels on EU energy security and the other in Luxembourg on the future of development aid in light of the new UN Sustainable Development Goals.
In addition, we prepared an extensive internal reform in order to be able to react better to the continuous developments within the European Union.
This report outlines some key changes we have made to our stakeholder relationships, our reviews and our resources.
You will also receive important information about our human resources, finance and performance and the results of our internal and external audits over the past year, as well as the most recent annual discharge process.
I hope that this report gives you a useful and interesting overview of the Court's activities in 2015. Through these activities, we aim to fulfill our mission, which is to improve EU financial management, promote accountability and transparency, and protect the financial interests of EU citizens.
2015 at a glance 05 Our activities Our management • Annual reports on the general budget of the EU • and on the European development funds for the financial year 2014, which essentially contain the statements of assurance and the audit results. • 52 specific annual reports containing the Court's audit opinions on the accounts of each EU agency and other body, and two summary reports. We implemented an internal reform to streamline our audit and reporting processes and allow for greater flexibility in managing our resources. • 25 special reports on specific management • issues and budget areas, including the Emissions Trading Scheme, youth employment programs and financial crisis assistance. • • Eight opinions on new or amended EU legislation and other decisions affecting financial management, from the proposed regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments to the amended regulation on the Single Resolution Mechanism. • Meetings, seminars and conferences with our stakeholders, including two high-level conferences on EU accountability, one on security of energy supply and the other on the future of development aid.
We continued our equal opportunity policy in recruitment and human resource management. • We made significant progress in integrating information systems for audit management and audit documentation. We also made exam-related information accessible on mobile devices. The buildings of the European Court of Auditors in Luxembourg.
Our activities 06 Audits Our audit reports and opinions are an important link in the EU's accountability chain, as they are used to hold those responsible for the EU's financial management to account, particularly during the annual discharge process.
These bodies are primarily the European Commission, but also the other EU institutions and bodies.
Member States also play an important role in areas of shared management, such as spending on agricultural and cohesion measures.
Our three main products are: • Annual reports, which mainly contain the results of financial and compliance audits on the European Union budget and the European Development Funds (EDFs), but also cover financial management and performance aspects.
There are also separately published specific annual reports on the EU agencies, decentralized bodies and JUs. • Special reports presenting the results of selected profitability or Compliance audits on specific spending or policy areas, or on budgetary or managerial issues are presented. • Opinions on new or amended legal acts affecting financial management and other analysis-based products, produced either at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative.
We aim to manage our resources to ensure an appropriate balance between our different activities. At the same time, the different areas of the EU budget should be well covered and solid results should be achieved.
In 2015, we dedicated a significant portion of our resources to the preparation of the annual Statements of Assurance, which were then presented in our annual reports.
The work underlying the Statement of Assurance covers the two aspects on which the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union requires us to express an annual opinion: the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of underlying transactions.
In addition, where possible, we take into account the work of other auditors (see the section on auditing EU agencies on p. 14) and the management declarations in the form of the annual activity reports of the Commission's Directors-General.
In addition to the legally required audits, we select specific spending or policy areas at our discretion. This is based on criteria such as the risk of irregularities or inadequate performance, potential for improvement and public interest.
We select these topics completely independently, but take into account the points of view of our target group.
In 2015 we prepared 25 special reports, which are mainly the result of our performance audits.
The summaries of the special reports are presented in this activity report (pp. 15-33).
In 2015, we issued eight opinions on proposals for new or amended rules and regulations (p. 34).
In particular, we refer to our Opinion on EFSI to clarify both the subject matter and the implications of our Opinions.
All audit reports and opinions are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our activities 07 Audit reports and opinions 2013-2015 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total 91 2 Total 89 2 52 25 10* Total 77 2 50 19 6 51 24 14 * Annual reports Special annual reports Special reports Opinions and other communications Eight opinions and two summary reports on EU Agencies and Joint Undertakings. 2013 2014 2015
Our activities 08 Audit visits in 2015 While most of the audit work took place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also visited Member State authorities, other beneficiaries of EU funds inside and outside the European Union (such as organizations involved in the allocation of EU funds, such as the European Investment Bank's regional offices in Kenya and Uganda) and other EU institutions, agencies and bodies.
Through these visits, we obtained direct audit evidence from the entities involved in approving, managing, collecting and disbursing EU funds, as well as from the respective final recipients.
Our audit teams typically consist of two to three auditors and audit visits can last from a few days to several weeks.
The frequency and intensity of the audit work in each Member State and beneficiary country depends on the type of audit and, where appropriate, the selection of the sample.
The number of inspection visits can therefore vary from country to country and from year to year.
Within the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in liaison with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States visited.
In 2015, the Court's auditors spent 4 310 days on-site – in Member States and outside the EU – and obtained audit evidence for annual reports and selected audit tasks (special reports).
They also spent significant time with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralized agencies and bodies across the EU.
The on-site inspections took fewer days than in 2014.
This is due to more efficient working methods and an increasing use of technologies such as the secure exchange of data and documents and video conferencing.
Fraud Detection Although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we occasionally encounter cases in the course of our audit work where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activity.
The Court works with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to fight fraud against the EU budget.
Any suspicion of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the EU that arises during our audit work is forwarded to OLAF.
These cases are then followed up by OLAF, which decides on possible investigations and cooperates with Member State authorities where necessary.
In 2015, we forwarded 27 such cases of suspected fraud to OLAF (2014: 16 cases).
Our activities 09 days of on-site testing in 2015 Italy Germany Poland Spain France United Kingdom Greece Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Netherlands Finland Austria Czech Republic Lithuania Ireland Denmark Slovakia Sweden Slovenia Malta Belgium Cyprus Latvia Estonia Luxembourg Switzerland Algeria Azerbaijan Egypt Uganda Serbia China United States Bosnia and Herzegovina Cuba Myanmar Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Eritrea Ghana Tanzania Norway Albania Haiti Papua New Guinea Rwanda Montenegro Ukraine Ethiopia Kenya Democratic Republic of the Congo Republic of Moldova Total 4 310 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
Our activities 10 annual reports on the financial year 2014 The majority of our financial and compliance audits in 2015 were devoted to the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2014.
The 2014 Annual Report resulting from this work was published on 10 November 2015 and is addressed to our audience, which includes the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the European Union (ECOFIN Council), national parliaments and governments, and the media presented.
The main aim of our annual report is to assist the European Parliament, the Council and the citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management by providing findings and conclusions.
In the Annual Report 2014 we provide assurance on the use of EU funds in the financial year under review and highlight where the risk of EU funds being improperly spent was greatest.
In addition, we analyze why errors occurred and make useful and cost-effective recommendations for possible improvements.
We have revised the structure of our 2014 Annual Report to make the report more reader-friendly.
The headings of the chapters now correspond to those of the headings of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
The core element of the report is still the statement of assurance, in which we express our audit opinion on the reliability of the annual accounts of the EU and on compliance with the regulations for revenue and expenditure.
In addition, we have specifically assessed all major areas of EU activity and provided extensive information on budgetary and financial management.
The report also provides information on the performance of the EU budget and the Commission's performance reporting, in particular with regard to progress towards the Europe 2020 strategy targets.
President Vítor Caldeira presents the European Court of Auditors' 2014 annual report to the European Parliament. EU spending in 2014 amounted to 142.5 billion euros = just under 300 euros per citizen
Our activities 11 Key messages from the 2014 annual report The European Court of Auditors calls for a new approach to EU investment and spending. ƒ The reliability of the EU accounts for the year 2014 has been confirmed. ƒ Revenue was legal and regular in 2014. ƒ Payments in 2014 were affected by material errors.
Conclusions and recommendations ƒ The EU accounts for 2014 have been properly prepared in accordance with international standards and give a true and fair view.
We were therefore again able to issue an unqualified audit opinion on their reliability.
However, we issued a negative audit opinion on the regularity of the payments. ƒ The estimated level of error, which measures the magnitude of irregularities, is 4.4% for the 2014 payments. This value is close to the error rate for 2013 (4.5%) and consistently above the materiality threshold of 2%. ƒ The estimated error rates we found were the same for expenditure under shared management with Member States and expenditure managed directly by the Commission (4.6%).
The highest levels of error were found in spending under the headings "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" (5.7%) and "Competitiveness for growth and jobs" (5.6%).
Administrative expenditure has the lowest estimated level of error (0.5%). ƒ There is a clear link between types of expenditure and error rates.
The estimated error rate for cost reimbursement schemes (5.5%) where the EU reimburses eligible costs for eligible activities based on the cost claims prepared by beneficiaries is twice the estimated error rate for payment entitlement schemes (2.7%) , where costs are not reimbursed, but payment depends on the fulfillment of certain conditions. ƒ Corrective actions by Member State authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated level of error.
Without these actions, the estimated overall error rate would have been 5.5%.
The Commission still needs to improve on risk assessment and the impact of corrective actions. ƒ If the Commission, the Member State authorities and the independent auditors had used all the information available to them, they could have prevented or detected and corrected a significant part of the errors before they occurred. ƒ Amounts to be paid in the current and future years continue to be very high.
It is imperative for the Commission to take action to address this persistent problem.
The Europe 2020 targets are not sufficiently taken into account by the Member States in the partnership agreements and programmes.
These two aspects limit the ability of the Commission to monitor and report on the performance and contribution of the EU budget to Europe 2020. ƒ The forthcoming mid-term review of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020 is crucial for the management of EU spending.
It is important that the Commission analyze as soon as possible the areas with persistently high error rates, assess the possibilities to reduce these error rates and pay more attention to the performance of the expenditure.
Our activities 12 Audit of transactions by EU spending area - Results for 2014 Spending area Natural resources Economic, social and territorial cohesion Competitiveness for growth and jobs Global Europe Administration Audited population and estimated error rate 5.6% 2.7% 0, 5% 3.6% 5.7% Audit conclusion €57.5 billion €55.7 billion €13.0 billion €7.4 billion €8.8 billion 0 20 40 €60 billion The table was extracted from the EU 2014 audit briefing available on our website (eca.europa.eu/en/euauditinbrief-2014). Significantly errored Not significantly errored
Our activities 13 European Development Funds (EDFs) Annual Report 2014 ƒ Revenue was free from error. ƒ The payments were affected by material errors. Under the EDF, the European Union provides funds for development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs).
Funded by the Member States, the EDFs are managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and, for some aid, by the European Investment Bank.
Their receipts were not affected by material error, while for payments there was an estimated error rate of 3.8%.
As in previous years, we found weaknesses in the ex ante controls.
Almost two-thirds of the estimated error rate is due to errors related to non-compliance with procurement rules and lack of supporting documents to justify expenditure.
Our annual report on the EDFs is published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our Activities 14 Special Annual Reports on the Financial Year 2014 In total, around €4 billion was allocated to all EU agencies, bodies and Joint Undertakings in 2014.
EU Agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings carry out specific tasks on behalf of the EU and are based in different EU Member States.
They operate in many areas, such as security, health, research, finance, migration and transport, and each has its own mandate, board of directors, director, staff and budget.
In 2015, we prepared 52 special annual reports for the 2014 financial year.
They related to 41 decentralized agencies, executive agencies and other EU bodies, eight European research Joint Undertakings, the European Schools, the Galileo Joint Undertaking in liquidation and the communication infrastructure Sisnet.
In addition, we published two summaries giving an overview of the results of our audits in this area (one summary on the EU agencies and other bodies and the other on the JUs).
These reports were presented to the President of the European Parliament and the Parliament's Budgetary Control Committee, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Budget Committee.
In 2014, the individual annual accounts of the 33 decentralized agencies and other EU bodies were independently audited by a private auditing firm for the first time.
In forming our audit opinions on these financial statements, we considered that audit work and the actions taken by the audited entities based on the auditor's findings.
The financial statements of the remaining agencies and JUs have been fully audited by us.
We found the accounts of all agencies, other bodies and JUs to be reliable in 2014.
Operations were legal and regular except for Artemis (embedded ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and ECSEL (electronic components and systems).
In general, the agencies have continued to improve their procedures by taking corrective action based on our comments from previous years.
Our special annual reports as well as the two summaries of the results of our audits on the agencies, other bodies and JUs for 2014 are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
52 special annual reports on EU agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings based across Europe Europol Headquarters, The Hague, Netherlands.
Our Operations 15 Special Reports Prepared in 2015 In addition to our annual reports and special annual reports, we publish special reports throughout the year containing the results of the performance and compliance reviews we perform on specific budget areas or management issues of our choice.
When selecting and designing these examination tasks, we are careful to achieve maximum effect and thus use our resources in the best possible way.
Our performance audits often cover multiple financial years and the subject matter is complex so it can take more than a year to complete these audits.
In 2015, the special reports focused in particular on: the overall EU objective of creating value and growth, and the EU's response to global challenges such as fiscal sustainability, the environment and climate change.
The 25 special reports produced in 2015 are briefly presented under the respective headings corresponding to the headings of the multiannual financial framework.
The main stages of a selected performance or compliance audit Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the auditee's response.
02 Clear, structured presentation of the most important findings and conclusions.
elaboration of recommendations.
Determining the advisability and feasibility of a proposed test.
Defining the scope, objectives, approach, methods and timing of the audit.
Our activities 16 100 80 60 40 20 0 Competitiveness for growth and jobs €143 billion 13% Smart and inclusive growth The 'Smart and inclusive growth' heading accounts for most of the EU budget's spending.
This area includes the two sub-headings "Competitiveness for growth and jobs" and "Economic, social and territorial cohesion".
The sub-heading "Competitiveness for growth and jobs" includes funding for trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, business development, research and innovation, education and training, social policy, etc. Spending in this area planned for 2014-2020 accounts for 13% of the EU -Total budget for the programming period, ie EUR 143 billion.
A budget of 15.7 billion euros was made available for 2015. • Inland waterway transport in Europe: no significant improvements in modal share and navigability conditions since 2001 (No. 1/2015) - This special report examines whether the projects co-financed by the EU budget are effective in increasing the modal share of freight transport by inland waterways and contributed to improving navigability and whether EU inland navigation policies were coherent and based on relevant and comprehensive analysis.
Projects co-funded by the EU have not been effectively implemented. Inland shipping was not able to establish itself as an alternative to road freight transport, nor was navigability improved.
Although the Commission has made inland waterways a priority, Member States have paid little attention to inland waterways.
There is no coherent overall strategy among Member States linked by the main shipping corridors and river maintenance, political and environmental considerations are not sufficiently taken into account in EU strategies.
Member States should give priority to those inland waterway projects that bring the greatest and most immediate benefits, and the Commission should focus its resources on those projects where plans for debottlenecking are advanced.
EU inland waterway transport projects received €1.3 billion in funding from the TEN-T programme, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund over the period 2007-2013.
Our activities 17 • Are the needs of micro-entrepreneurs adequately addressed by EU financial support?
(8/2015) - This special report analyzes whether the needs of micro-entrepreneurs are being met by the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Progress Microfinance Facility.
The auditors found weaknesses in the programming and design of ESF financial support and insufficient and reliable monitoring of service delivery.
Neither the Commission nor the Member States had comparative information on the administrative costs of each Member State and funding mechanism.
These circumstances could affect the effectiveness of EU financial support for micro-entrepreneurs.
Member States should conduct needs assessments when designing financial instruments and preparing operational programs that include EU financial support for micro-entrepreneurs.
The Commission should make the use of ESF financial instruments by Member States conditional on robust risk management systems being in place.
Microfinance usually involves loans of less than EUR 25,000, often less than EUR 10,000.
The total demand for financing of this magnitude in the EU Member States is estimated at more than 12 billion euros.
Examples given in the report include the allocation of EUR 5 000 to expand a city kiosk and EUR 9 500 to support the establishment of a playground and a clothing store. • Improving the security of energy supply through the development of the internal energy market: more effort needed (16/2015) - This special report looks at whether the implementation of internal energy market policies and EU spending on the energy infrastructure have contributed effectively to the achievement of energy security benefits.
The audit found that, in general, energy infrastructure in Europe is not yet geared towards fully integrated markets and therefore does not currently provide effective security of energy supply.
Therefore, the Commission should identify energy infrastructures in the EU that are not actively used and work with Member States to remove the obstacles that prevent their use for the purposes of the internal energy market.
In addition, the Commission should consider new ways of making energy from one Member State available to customers in another.
The internal energy market should enable the free movement and trade of natural gas and electricity throughout the EU.
Under the EU budget, EUR 3.7 billion has been allocated to finance energy infrastructure from 2007 to 2013, and a further EUR 7.4 billion is expected between 2014 and 2020.
However, the report notes that the EU's target of completing the internal energy market by 2014 has not been met.
Our activities 18 Economic, social and territorial cohesion Smart and inclusive growth The sub-heading 'Economic, social and territorial cohesion' covers regional policies aimed at helping the EU's least developed countries and regions to catch up with the rest . The aim is to strengthen the competitiveness of all regions and promote cooperation between them.
Cohesion spending planned for 2014-2020 represents 34% of the EU budget for the whole programming period, ie €367 billion.
100 80 60 40 20 0 367 billion euro 34% • Efforts to solve public procurement problems in EU cohesion spending should be stepped up (n°10/2015) - This special report examines whether the Commission and the Member States take appropriate and effective action to address public procurement errors in the area of cohesion policy.
The audit showed that there are still widespread problems in procurement by public authorities across the EU.
Although the Commission and Member States have started to tackle the issue, much remains to be done.
Serious mistakes meant that there was no fair competition and contracts were not awarded to the best bidders.
Systematic analysis is very limited and there is a lack of sufficiently accurate, reliable and consistent data on the nature and extent of errors.
If the situation does not improve by the end of 2016, it is recommended to suspend payments for the 2014-2020 period to the Member States concerned.
In the period 2007-2013, €349 billion was earmarked for regional policy spending, to be disbursed through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund and the European Social Fund.
A significant part of these funds is spent through public procurement.
Errors were found in around 40 % of the projects we audited from a public procurement perspective for our annual reports for the financial years 2009-2013.
Our activities 19 • EU funding of urban waste water treatment plants in the Danube river basin: Member States need further support to achieve EU waste water policy objectives (No. 2/2015) - This special report assesses the effectiveness of Member States in the Danube river basin with funds from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund to achieve EU waste water policy objectives.
The audit found that while the EU spending programs have been a significant contributor to the progress made in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, there have been delays in all countries in complying with the rules and taking up the available EU -Gave funds.
Although wastewater treatment in these countries was generally adequate, treatment of sewage sludge and stormwater overflow was sometimes inadequate.
A third of the systems were oversized and potentially unsustainable in the long term.
Countries were slow to take up available EU funds and risked losing EU funding or needing additional funds from national budgets.
The Commission should tighten reporting requirements and Member States should legislate to ensure immediate connection to public sewers.
The Commission and Member States should establish criteria for all uses of sewage sludge and ensure reliable monitoring of pollutants.
The Danube catchment area is Europe's largest catchment area.
The EU contribution to waste water treatment projects in the four audited Member States was • €7.9 billion in the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods. Water quality in the Danube River Basin: Progress in the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, but further action needed (No. 23/2015) - This special report examines whether the implementation of the Water Framework Directive by the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia has led to better surface water quality in the Danube catchment area.
The audit found that there have been few improvements since 2004.
The main reason for the limited progress was that Member States' plans were not ambitious enough.
Targeted measures for water bodies with an insufficient quality status were lacking.
In addition, deficiencies in the monitoring systems led to a lack of data, both on the type of pollution and the sources of pollution, which led to negative assessments of the status of water bodies.
In addition, Member States exempted a significant number of water bodies from important deadlines without sufficient justification.
In the period 2007-2013, Member States in the Danube River Basin received €6.35 billion from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund for waste water treatment.
During the same period, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development provided €6.39 billion to compensate farmers for agri-environmental measures.
Our activities 20 • EU Youth Guarantee: a start has been made, but implementation risks are foreseeable (3/2015) - This special report examines whether the Commission has adequately supported Member States in setting up the Youth Guarantee and whether possible risks related to the implementation passed.
The audit identified three risks that could hamper the effective implementation of the Youth Guarantee: the adequacy of the overall budget, the definition of a "quality" job and the way the Commission monitors the Youth Guarantee and reports on the results.
The auditors concluded that the Commission provided timely and appropriate support to Member States in implementing the Youth Guarantee.
However, the Commission has not carried out an impact assessment indicating the expected costs and benefits, although this is a standard procedure.
While the Commission had asked Member States to provide cost estimates when submitting their Youth Guarantee implementation plans, some did not provide the required information. No Member State provided the estimated cost of the necessary structural reforms.
The Youth Guarantee was established in June 2013 in response to the worsening situation of unemployed young people, exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis.
In the period 2014-2020, the Youth Guarantee will be co-financed – through the European Social Fund and a dedicated youth employment initiative – with a total of €12.7 billion from the EU budget. • Commission support to youth action teams: reallocation of ESF funds successful but insufficient focus on results (n°17/2015) - This special report examines whether youth action teams in 2012 made any proposals on how to use ESF funds faster and more effective results can be achieved for unemployed young people and whether these proposals have contributed to the reallocation of ESF funds.
The auditors found that while the youth action teams set up by the Commission were successful in reallocating funds to projects aimed at supporting young people, their proposals were limited.
The Commission provided advisory support to Member States but was limited by the amount and quality of information available.
While the initiative resulted in a reprogramming and reallocation of European Social Fund appropriations, the Commission's assessment of the changes to the operational programs focused mainly on their budgetary implications.
If there are any discrepancies between the promises made and the goals that the Commission can actually achieve, then expectations should not be raised too high with regard to such initiatives.
In 2012, the Commission set up youth action teams as part of its Youth Opportunities initiative.
The teams were composed of experts from the eight Member States with the highest youth unemployment rates, as well as experts from the Commission.
The initiative related to funds of almost 10 billion euros from the European Social Fund that were still available in the affected Member States.
Our activities 21 Natural resources EUR 417 billion Sustainable growth: natural resources This heading covers the EU's common agricultural and fisheries policies, rural development and environmental policies.
Three-quarters of spending concerns direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets.
The expenditure planned for 2014-2020 represents almost 39% of the total EU budget for this programming period, ie 417 billion euros.
For 2015, a budget of 56 billion euros was made available.
100 80 60 40 20 0 39% • Technical assistance: what contribution has it made to agriculture and rural development?
(4/2015) - This special report examines the use of technical assistance funding for agriculture and rural development in the 2007-2013 programming period.
The audit focused on the regularity, effectiveness and soundness of funding at Commission and Member State level.
The audit showed that neither the European Commission nor the Member States could demonstrate how well the use of technical assistance in the fields of agriculture and rural development contributed to the sound use of the budget and the objectives of the Common Agricultural Policy.
Rural networks, which aim to promote cooperation, knowledge sharing and innovation in the agricultural sector, are very good recipients of technical assistance.
In most cases, however, the funds earmarked for capacity building have been used to support general government budgets.
For rural development, the Commission should clarify the scope and use of technical assistance in Member States and closely monitor its implementation.
For the period 2007-2013, Member States had planned to use €1.5 billion of the EU budget for technical assistance. This was capped at 4% of each national budget available for rural development.
For the period 2014-2020, this amount increased to around 1.9 billion euros.
Our activities 22 • Are financial instruments in rural development a successful and promising tool?
(No 5/2015) - This special report examines whether the financial instruments used under rural development policy (loan and guarantee funds) were well designed and managed in the 2007-2013 programming period.
The check revealed that the financial instruments have not been successful so far.
This is mainly due to the fact that the financial instruments were over-capitalized and failed to realize their potential in terms of the desired leverage and revolving effect.
There were no clear arguments for introducing financial instruments in the 2007-2013 programming period.
There was also no reliable quantifiable information to justify the nature of the financial instruments put in place, to determine the demand for financial instruments in the agricultural sector and to demonstrate that the amount of capital earmarked for a fund was adequate.
Increased incentives should be created for Member States to set up financial instruments in the field of rural development and to increase demand from farmers or other beneficiaries. Adequate leverage and revolving effect standards and targets should also be set for the period 2014-2020.
By the end of 2013, the EU and its Member States had invested around €700 million in the rural development guarantee and loan funds.
The Commission wants Member States to commit to at least doubling the use of these tools over the period 2014-2020.
Close-up of a performance audit: integrity and implementation of the EU ETS (No. 6/2015) The European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) differs somewhat from other policies and programs we audit in that it does not have significant funding received from the EU budget.
However, it has a very large impact on the implementation of policies in the EU and on the quality of life of citizens.
The EU ETS was introduced in 2005 and is often cited as a reference model for the development of climate protection strategies and emissions trading systems elsewhere in the world.
Therefore, an appropriate framework would be expected to ensure market regulation and supervision, legal certainty and systems for managing essential information.
The basic structures of the implementation systems should also be sufficiently solid.
At the end of 2013, our auditors examined the framework for protecting the integrity of the EU ETS and the systems for the actual implementation of the program at the Commission and in the Member States up to phase II (end 2012).
The audit was carried out because of the risks involved in creating a viable market to implement EU climate change policies and the difficulty of controlling an activity that is intangible ('How to measure hot air?').
Our auditors examined whether the EU ETS was adequately managed.
To do this, they not only carried out desk reviews and interviews with the officials involved in managing the EU ETS at the European Commission in Brussels, but also provided competent authorities in five Member States (Germany, France, Italy, Poland and the UK ) pay a visit.
In addition, documents were checked and experts consulted in two other countries (Greece and Spain).
The auditors obtained further evidence by examining national authorities' files on 150 installations selected in these seven Member States. In addition, data from the EU transaction log
Our activities 23 analyzed. The auditors could not inspect the installations on the spot as they do not receive any EU funding related to the Emissions Trading System and the Court does not have the necessary access rights to carry out the audit.
The evidence obtained by our auditors indicated a lack of oversight of the emissions market and insufficient cooperation between regulators.
For example, our auditors found that the legal definition of allowances should be clarified and that the procedures for opening ETS accounts in the Union Registry and for monitoring transactions were not adequate to ensure sufficient controls against abuse.
However, the initial situation was difficult: Member States could not monitor cross-border transactions effectively because they did not have direct access to the central database, and the Commission, in turn, could not monitor transactions because there was no legal basis for doing so.
In addition, our auditors found that the systems for monitoring and reporting emissions were not harmonized and there were weaknesses in control. In addition, the support from the Commission and the reporting by the Commission and the Member States were inadequate.
From their findings, the auditors concluded that the framework for protecting market integrity is not sufficiently robust and that there were clear weaknesses in implementation in the last phase, some of which require further measures at the current phase.
However, it is also clear from our report that this innovative system has been continuously improved.
At the time the report was published, the debate on possible reforms to the EU ETS, focusing on the effectiveness of the system and how to deal with excess allowances, was ongoing.
In our report, however, we point out that the fundamental issues of market integrity and implementation also need to be addressed so that the EU can be confident that this core instrument is adequate to meet expectations for emission reductions and low-carbon technologies.
We made some practical recommendations to the Commission and Member State authorities to improve market integrity and system implementation to make the EU ETS a more powerful tool to achieve climate targets by 2020 and beyond.
The Commission agreed with the report's recommendation that key remaining issues related to the regulation and supervision of the emissions market should be addressed in order to improve market integrity where appropriate. She also assured that for phase III (2013-2020) numerous improvements have already been made, taking our comments into account in particular.
The report generated a lot of media interest and was presented by EU-accredited journalists at a press conference in Brussels.
In the EU and globally, the press reported that the EU ETS needed more oversight to improve the carbon market. In addition, the system must be better protected against market abuse, including the still great risk of VAT fraud.
As is usual with all special reports, the Member responsible for the report - in this case Kevin Cardiff - presented the report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and, moreover, to the Environment Committees of the Parliament and the Council to share with them the Court's findings, which served as a basis can be used for future decisions on relevant rules and regulations.
Parliament and Council welcomed our comments and recommendations and will take future proposals into account when it comes to improving the integrity and implementation of the system.
Audit team (from left to right): Stefan Den Engelsen, Emese Fésűs, Kevin Cardiff and Colm Friel.
Our activities 24 • Are the fisheries partnership agreements well managed by the Commission?
(No 11/2015) - This special report examines whether the agreements are well managed.
The auditors assessed the negotiation and implementation of the agreements, the Commission's monitoring of catches and the selection and control of the actions financed.
The audit found that while the agreements were generally well managed, the quantities negotiated were often higher than the catches reported for previous periods.
This regularly leads to incomplete utilization.
Since the EU makes payments in full regardless of the de facto catch, the actual cost has often been higher than the negotiated price.
There was also a lack of reliable, consistent and complete data on the actual catches of the EU fleet.
The Commission should, when negotiating new schemes, take into account previous exploitation rates that tie payments more closely to actual catches and ensure that the new catch database is fully used by flag Member States and contains reliable catch data that can be monitored and kept up to date.
The agreements aim to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries concerned by only allowing EU vessels to catch the partner countries' surplus resources.
However, the auditors doubt that the so-called "surplus" can be reliably calculated due to the lack of reliable information. • The EU priority of promoting a knowledge-based economy in rural areas has been hampered by poor management of knowledge transfer and extension measures (12/2015) - This special report examines in particular whether there are management and control systems in place to ensure knowledge transfer and effective implementation of advisory measures in the field of rural development.
The audit found that running EU-funded training and counseling programs in rural areas is too expensive, often duplicating existing programs and favoring incumbent training providers.
The auditors found poor administrative practices in Member States and insufficient oversight by the European Commission.
Member States relied too much on the trainers' suggestions and considered any type of training as 'good' and eligible for public funding.
The lack of fair and transparent selection meant that long-established and established providers were repeatedly selected and received the bulk of the funding.
Member States should select training projects that respond to skill needs identified through a periodic analysis and avoid supplier-driven selection procedures.
The EU supports training and advisory projects in rural areas with funds from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
For the period 2007-2013, 1.3 billion euros have been made available for these projects.
Together with the co-financing from the Member States, public funding totaled 2.2 billion euros.
In the period 2014-2020, the corresponding amount could be more than 4 billion euros.
Our activities 25 • The cost-effectiveness of EU rural development support for non-productive agricultural investments (n°20/2015) - This special report specifically assesses whether non-productive agricultural investments (NPIs) are cost-effective and make a contribution contribute to the achievement of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development's objective of sustainable farming in the 2007-2013 programming period.
The auditors concluded that while NPI grants contributed to the achievement of the objectives, they did not do so in a cost-effective manner, with 75% of the projects visited having unreasonably high costs.
Many of these projects were funded entirely with public funds, despite having obvious profitable features. The auditors visited four Member States that together spent 80% of the total EU budget on NPIs: Portugal, Denmark, the United Kingdom (England) and Italy (Puglia).
Only five of the 28 projects audited proved to be cost-effective.
The report warns that cost-efficiency inefficiencies may not be limited to the sample, as the problems identified were due to weaknesses in Member States' management and control systems.
Non-productive investments are investments that do not generate significant returns or revenues, nor significantly add value to the beneficiary's holding, but have a positive impact on the environment. • EU support for infrastructure in rural areas: Funds could be used much more efficiently (25/2015) - This special report examines whether the European Commission and Member States are involved in funding roads, water supply systems, schools and other facilities through development programmes have achieved good value for money for rural areas.
The audit found that while some infrastructure projects have made a positive contribution to rural areas, Member States and the Commission have received insufficient value for money under shared management.
Much more could have been achieved with the resources available. The need for EU rural development funds has not always been clearly justified by Member States.
The risk of supporting projects that would have been carried out without EU funding has not been managed effectively.
According to the report, since 2012 the Commission has taken a more proactive and coordinated approach.
If properly implemented, this should lead to better financial management in the period 2014-2020.
Rural development programs provided €13 billion of EU funding for rural infrastructure between 2007 and 2013.
Our activities 26 100 80 60 40 20 0 Foreign policy 65 billion euros 6% Global Europe The Global Europe section covers the EU's external relations (the "External Policy"), including enlargement matters, as well as the development and humanitarian aid of the EU off.
For the 2014-2020 programming period, the EU has earmarked 6% of its total planned spending, ie €65 billion, for these objectives.
The budget for 2015 was 7.5 billion euros.
Additional funds are made available through the European Development Fund, which is not part of the EU budget and therefore not covered by the Multiannual Financial Framework. • EU Police Mission in Afghanistan: mixed results (7/2015) - This special report assesses whether the EU Police Mission (EUPOL) was well planned and coordinated, whether it received adequate operational support and appropriate guidance, whether she has contributed to progress in the Afghan National Police and whether her exit was prepared in an appropriate manner.
The audit concluded that EUPOL has partially achieved the objective of contributing to the development of a sustainable and effective Afghan-owned civilian police force.
In an environment marked by the lack of a trained, fully functioning Afghan police force, high illiteracy rates and widespread corruption within the Afghan police and judicial systems, EUPOL has managed to contribute to the reform of the Interior Ministry and the professionalization of the National Police.
However, given the continuing systemic weaknesses in the police and judicial sectors in Afghanistan, there is a risk that the results achieved by EUPOL and in the Afghan police sector in general will not last after the end of the mission at the end of 2016.
The total cost of EUPOL over the period May 2007 to December 2014 was almost €400 million, with security-related costs accounting for almost a third of this amount.
At the end of 2014, the EU had deployed a total of 32 Common Security and Defense Policy missions, of which 16 have been completed and wound up and 16 are still ongoing.
Our activities 27 • EU support to combating torture and the abolition of the death penalty (9/2015) - This special report assesses whether the prevention of torture, the rehabilitation of victims of torture and the abolition of the death penalty are within the scope of the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights are effectively promoted.
The audit showed that although the projects funded by the EU have had an impact, the projects are often not targeted enough and have a limited scope of action, since the funds are distributed according to the scattering can principle.
While the allocation of funds has generally been adequate, the Commission has not sufficiently taken into account individual country human rights priorities.
Projects were often not well coordinated with other EU policies such as development aid and political dialogue.
They were generally carried out by committed and competent organisations.
The auditors' recommendations related to the targeting of financial resources, better coordination with other EU actions, selection and improvement of project proposals, performance measurement and sustainability of the beneficiary organisations.
The European Union acts through diplomatic channels and provides grants to non-governmental organizations through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights.
In the period 2007-2013, around 180 grants totaling more than 100 million euros were awarded to projects to combat torture and abolish the death penalty. • EU support to timber producing countries under the FLEGT Action Plan (No. 13/2015) - This special report examines whether the Commission has managed well the support provided under the EU's FLEGT Action Plan to combat the illegal logging is provided.
The auditors found that while the action plan is a welcome initiative, the overall results are meager.
Aid was not granted to timber producing countries on the basis of clear criteria and its impact was diluted due to the large number of countries competing for aid.
Progress in the countries concerned varied greatly.
The lack of progress is mainly due to a lack of adequate planning by the Commission and a lack of clear priorities in the allocation of funds to timber producing countries.
The auditors recommended that the Commission set clear goals and identify the means to achieve them.
Four member states have yet to fully implement the EU Timber Regulation, which was put in place to prevent the import of illegal timber into the EU market.
In the period 2003-2013, 35 countries received €300 million under the Action Plan.
Two of these countries, Indonesia and Ghana, made good progress towards a full licensing system for their timber.
In general, however, progress has been slow and many countries have struggled to overcome the barriers to good governance.
In the 12 years since the Commission launched the Action Plan, no partner country has managed to set up a fully recognized permitting system.
Our activities 28 • The ACP Investment Facility: does it add value?
(14/2015) - This special report assesses whether the Investment Facility has added value to the EU's development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries.
The audit found that the Investment Facility does indeed add value to EU development cooperation with ACP countries and fits well with EU policy objectives.
At the end of 2014, lines of credit represented 28% of the Facility's portfolio, compared to 14% at the end of 2010.
The increased proportion reflects the continued importance of the long-term funding offered by the Facility.
The facility also acted as a catalyst in a positive sense by mobilizing additional funds.
However, the auditors found that the contractual obligation to inform final beneficiaries about European Investment Bank (EIB)/Investment Facility financing is not always respected and that technical assistance is not always targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises.
They made recommendations to fix these issues.
Established in 2003, the ACP Investment Facility is funded by the European Development Fund and managed by the EIB.
Development projects worth EUR 5.7 billion have been approved under the facility over the past ten years.
The Facility provides medium to long-term financing with the aim of delivering sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits. • Promoting renewable energy in East Africa from the ACP-EU Energy Facility (No. 15/2015) - This special report examines whether the Commission has successfully used the Energy Facility to improve poor people's access to renewable energy in East Africa.
The audit found that some notable achievements have been made, but that the facility still needs better monitoring.
While the Commission made a good selection from the proposed projects, it did not monitor the progress of the projects closely enough.
The project managers' reports were of variable quality and the Commission made no effort to enforce compliance with reporting requirements.
For projects known to be affected by serious problems, Commission officials undertook too few on-the-spot visits and monitoring verifications to complete the information provided by those responsible.
The report made recommendations for more rigorous selection, monitoring and improved sustainability of future projects.
A total of EUR 268 million had been approved by mid-2014, including EUR 106 million for projects in East Africa, which had by far the least access to electricity in Africa.
Our activities 29 • Analysis of the risks associated with a results-based approach to EU action in the field of development and cooperation (21/2015) - The special report has been prepared in response to the renewed interest that has recently been focused on the focus of the To shift EU policy on development and cooperation away from activities and towards results.
The auditors identified nine key risk areas: inconsistent outcome-related terminology or no logical chain between actions, outputs, outcomes and impacts; increased complexity due to the consideration of cross-cutting issues in EU programmes; the lack of harmonization of aid delivery instruments, results frameworks and accountability structures of development partners; weaknesses in evaluation and reporting of results; a lack of consolidated reports or an overview of the results achieved through EU assistance; a lack of sufficient, relevant, reliable and timely data; a focus on budget outcome as a target; Changes in the context of measures.
The audit found that these risk areas have been correctly identified by the Commission in a wide variety of documents.
However, further action is needed to realize the full potential of the Commission's initiatives and to improve the EU's development and cooperation performance.
Against this background, a number of recommendations were formulated which the Commission should take into account.
Our activities 30 100 80 60 40 20 0 Fiscal and economic governance The EU framework for economic governance aims to address problematic financial and economic trends, such as excessive government deficits or debt, that can dampen growth and threaten the sustainability of public finances .
Part of this framework is the establishment of the EU Banking Union.
Following the report on the European Banking Authority in 2014, this special report is the second we have published on the subject.
In 2008, Europe faced a financial crisis that escalated into a sovereign debt crisis.
The sovereign debt crisis was a consequence of various factors. These included weak banking supervision, inadequate fiscal policies and the difficulties in which large financial institutions had run into (and the consequent cost of bailing them out, which was borne by the general public).
The crisis hit the EU member states in two waves. It first hit the countries outside the euro area in 2008-2009 and later spread to the euro area itself.
Our auditors examined how the European Commission managed the financial assistance provided under the Balance of Payments Facility and the European Financial Stabilization Mechanism during the crisis, for which the Commission borrowed on the capital markets, using the EU budget as a guarantee.
The audit related to the financial assistance granted to Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Ireland and Portugal. Particular attention was paid to the role of the Commission in these programmes.
In addition, our auditors analyzed the Commission's cooperation with its partners – the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Washington.
They obtained audit evidence through in-depth document reviews and analysis, as well as interviews with officials from the Commission, national authorities, the ECB and the IMF.
The partners and the decisions taken at EU political level were not the subject of the audit.
The audit found that the European Commission was unprepared for the first requests for financial assistance during the 2008 financial crisis as warning signs were overlooked. This explains to a large extent the initially obvious weaknesses in their administrative processes.
The auditors identified four main problem areas in the Commission's crisis management: different approaches, limited quality control, insufficient monitoring and deficiencies in documentation.
They found several examples where countries in comparable situations were not treated equally. In some programmes, the overall conditions for assistance were less stringent and therefore easier to meet.
They also found that the Commission's teams had insufficiently reviewed key documents, the underlying calculations were not verified by anyone outside the team, the work of the experts was not closely monitored and the verification process was not adequately documented.
Our activities 31 However, despite the lack of experience, the auditors consider that the Commission has managed to carry out its new administrative tasks and to launch the financial assistance programs crucial to the reform process, which is a success given the time constraints.
The auditors also found that as the crisis progressed, the Commission increasingly built internal expertise and engaged with a wide range of stakeholders in the affected countries. Later reforms also introduced improved macroeconomic surveillance.
For example, the targets of the programs were met, the adjusted deficit targets were broadly met, structural deficits improved and Member States met most of the conditions of their programs, albeit with some delays.
In most cases, countries continued with the reforms mandated by the program conditions, and in four of the five countries the current account adjustment was faster than expected.
Our auditors indicated that a number of weaknesses remain and that the Commission needs to improve its procedures for managing financial assistance.
We have made a number of recommendations to the European Commission to ensure that financial assistance is managed more soundly in the future when Member States that are struggling ask for support.
The report received wide coverage, particularly in the European media, but also in the United States and Australia.
Like our other special reports, it will be presented to the European Parliament and Council by our reporter, Baudilio Tomé Muguruza.
Audit team (from left to right): Didier Lebrun, Ignacio García de Parada, Kristian Sniter, Josef Jindra, Giuseppe Diana, Baudilio Tomé Muguruza, Adrian Savin, Daniela Hristova, Zacharias Kolias, Marco Fians and Daniel Costa de Magalhães.
Our activities 32 • EU supervision of credit rating agencies is well established but not yet fully effective (22/2015) - This special report examines whether the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) is in the successfully established the EU as supervisor of the rating agencies.
As a result of the financial crisis in 2008, the rating agencies and their influence on the financial markets have increasingly come to the fore.
At that time, rating agencies in Europe were hardly regulated.
The audit found that while ESMA has laid a good foundation, its rules and guidance are not complete and significant risks remain to be addressed.
The auditors found that ESMA has reduced the average length of the registration process, but the process remains complex.
Although rating methodologies should be rigorous, systematic, consistent and subject to validation, the main focus of ESMA's work is whether the methodologies are rigorous.
The current framework for credit assessments in the Eurosystem does not guarantee that all rating agencies registered with ESMA act on an equal footing. This creates a two-tier market structure that puts small rating agencies in an unfavorable position.
The auditors made some recommendations to ESMA in relation to the registration process, traceability of the risk identification process, supervisory processes and IT systems. • Technical assistance to Greece: Improved delivery needs a stronger focus on results (n°19/2015) - This special report examines whether the Task Force for Greece has fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance to Greece has effectively contributed to the reform process .
The task force was set up by the Commission in 2011 to support Greece's economic adjustment with numerous technical assistance measures.
The auditors examined whether the task force fulfilled its mandate and whether the technical assistance contributed effectively to the reform.
They obtained evidence from the Commission, service providers, Greek ministries and other stakeholders.
The audit found that technical assistance was provided to the Greek authorities in accordance with the mandate, but this did not always sufficiently advance the reforms.
Due to the urgency of the situation, the task force was set up in a very short time and without a full analysis of other options or a dedicated budget.
The task force did not have a single, comprehensive strategy document to deliver the technical assistance or set priorities.
The assistance provided was relevant and broadly in line with program requirements, and the task force developed a flexible and diversified delivery system. However, there were weaknesses at the project level.
Greek Parliament Building, Athens, Greece.
Our activities 33 Other 8.2% 100 80 60 40 20 0 VAT 12.8% TOR 13.3% GNI 65.7% Revenue The EU budget is mainly financed by revenue from three types of own resources.
These include own resources based on gross national income (GNI) and value added tax (VAT), as well as traditional own resources (TOR), in particular customs duties on products imported into the EU and sugar levies.
The EU also receives taxes levied on EU officials' salaries, contributions from third countries to certain EU programs and fines from companies that breach EU rules and regulations.
EU expenditure must be fully covered by revenue.
In 2015, revenue was 141.3 billion euros. • Tackling intra-community VAT fraud: further action needed (n°24/2015) - This special report examines whether the EU is effectively tackling intra-community VAT fraud.
Organized crime costs the European Union between €40 billion and €60 billion in VAT revenue every year.
Since there is no VAT on exporting goods and services from one EU country to another, criminals can fraudulently evade taxes in both countries.
This means that both the countries concerned and the EU are losing revenue.
Significant weaknesses were identified during the audit, which indicate that the current system is not effective enough.
The EU has a wide range of tools to combat intra-Community VAT fraud, but some of these tools need to be improved or applied more uniformly.
In most Member States visited there are no effective cross-checks between customs and tax data; Member States' tax authorities exchange VAT information, but there are problems with the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of the data; there is a lack of cooperation and overlapping competences between administrative, judicial and law enforcement authorities.
Measures must be taken by the Member States, the European Parliament and the European Commission to improve the system.
Our activities 34 opinions in 2015 We also contribute to improving EU financial management with our opinions on proposals for new or amended legal acts with financial implications.
These opinions are issued at the request of the other EU institutions and are used by the legislative authorities - Parliament and Council - in their work.
We may also issue position papers and analyzes on other issues on our own initiative.
In 2015 we published eight opinions covering a number of important areas: • Opinion No. 1/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Financial Regulation Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union; • Opinion No. 2/2015 on a proposal for an amendment of the Financial Regulation of the CPVO; • Opinion No. 3/2015 on a proposal for the Financial Regulation of the Single Resolution Board; • Opinion No. 4/2015 on the Proposal for a Regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) (see box for more details); • Opinion No. 5/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Regulation of the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market; • Opinion No. 6/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Financial Regulation of the Single Resolution Board; • Opinion No. 7/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the traditional, VAT and GNI own resource regulation and measures to provide the necessary treasury resources; • Opinion No. 8/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Financial Regulation for the 11th European Development Fund.
In focus: statement on the EFSI In November 2014, as a reaction to the decline in investment since 2007, the Commission launched an "Investment Plan for Europe".
The investment plan is based on the intervention logic that there are high investment needs in Europe and numerous economically viable projects for which sources of financing are sought.
The challenge is to use savings and financial liquidity productively to support sustainable employment and growth in Europe.
The investment offensive should be implemented without burdening national budgets and new debt.
The Commission expects this investment plan to create between 1 million and 1.3 million new jobs and mobilize additional (mainly long-term) investment funds of at least €315 billion over the period 2015-2017 until it is fully implemented. High expectations are placed on the Commission's initiative.
In order to contribute to the success of this initiative, in our statement we drew attention to issues related to the governance and legal framework, accountability and external audit arrangements, and financial liabilities for public budgets.
We also pointed out that instruments where the EU works with the private sector need to ensure an appropriate level of transparency and accountability for public funds.
The performance of these instruments should also be measured by the extent to which the funded activities achieve the objectives pursued.
We drew attention to the fact that the arrangements between the Commission and the European Investment Bank are not clearly described in the proposal.
Our opinion has been taken into account by the legislators in Regulation (EU) 2015/1017 on the EFSI.
Our activities 35 Contributing to EU accountability through high-level events and conferences We hold conferences on issues where we have identified risks and where our audit expertise can contribute to EU accountability. In doing so, we raise awareness of the importance of sound financial management and control of EU finances.
In 2015, we organized the two conferences described below, in line with our strategic objective to work with our partners in the EU accountability process.
During the year we also hosted seminars at our premises with internal and external experts to share knowledge on the latest developments in EU policies and to inform the planning and conduct of our audits.
For example, a seminar was held in October which focused on the progress made in reforming the common agricultural policy. The seminar was also attended by representatives of the Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
ECA Conference on Energy Security in the EU On 5 May 2015 in Brussels, we held a conference on Energy Security in the EU to provide a neutral and independent platform for stakeholders from EU institutions, Member States, the energy industry and academia where they can discuss the challenges facing the EU in the field of energy security.
Our President Vítor Caldeira opened the conference and Maroš Šefčovič, one of the Vice-Presidents of the Commission, gave an introductory speech.
Our members Szabolcs Fazakas and Phil Wynn Owen From left to right: Szabolcs Fazakas, Maroš Šefčovič, Vítor Caldeira and Phil Wynn Owen. chaired the conference, which included panel discussions on two main themes: obstacles to the completion of the internal energy market and Ukraine's important contribution to Europe's energy supply as a major transit country.
We organized this conference because the EU faces a number of major challenges in this area, which are interrelated.
These include creating an internal energy market to improve the competitiveness of the European economy, combating climate change and increasing the security of energy supply.
In our audits, we are increasingly focusing on energy and climate issues.
We have already produced special reports on topics such as the internal energy market and security of energy supply, energy efficiency and renewable energies.
Further reports are also planned in this area, including on EU support for Ukraine and EU spending on climate protection measures, as well as a landscape analysis on energy and climate issues in the EU.
Our goal is to add value to EU energy policy. With this conference we have shown that we also want to support a democratic debate on these issues.
Our activities 36 Court conference on the future of development assistance On 20-21 October 2015, we held an international conference on European development assistance after the European Year for Development, the adoption of the new UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Luxembourg Presidency in Luxembourg on 20-21 October 2015 year 2015.
At the start of the two-day conference, chaired by our member Danièle Lamarque, our President Vítor Caldeira took the floor, followed by the Luxembourg Minister for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Affairs, Romain Schneider, on behalf of the EU Presidency, by the Chair of the Development Committee of the European Parliament, Linda McAvan, the EU Commissioner for Development Neven Mimica and UN Under-Secretary-General Grete Faremo.
The conclusions of the conference were summarized by Marc Angel, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign and European Affairs and Defense of the Luxembourg Chamber of Deputies.
The EU is the world's largest donor of development aid and works with many public and private partners, including international organisations, foundations, non-governmental organizations and states.
It is becoming increasingly important to ensure the effectiveness of aid, which can be achieved by paying close attention to the criteria for its allocation and evaluation.
In this context, the court plays an important role.
The new United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for 2015-2030 are more ambitious than the previous Millennium Development Goals and encourage them to “think and act differently”.
Participants agreed that development aid needs to be aligned with environmental, energy, migration and other policy areas and involve new stakeholders.
In addition, development agencies need to adapt to the increasing diversification of finance and financial instruments: innovative financial instruments contribute to greater leverage and closer proximity to market conditions, but at the same time make it more difficult to take financial decisions and determine the added value of aid.
The European Commission gave a presentation on what a results-based budget should look like, with a clearer definition of how EU funds are spent and what results are achieved.
The Court also participates in the joint interinstitutional working group set up for this purpose.
Our activities 37 Relations with stakeholders The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union The value of our contribution to EU accountability depends to a large extent on the use made of our work and products by our key partners in the law-making and accountability process.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funds: the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and national parliaments.
In line with our strategy for the period 2013-2017, we have paid particular attention to improving our working relationship with Parliament and the Council.
The President and the Members of the Court maintain regular contacts with the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT), which is our main partner.
In 2015, President Vítor Caldeira presented our annual work program and annual reports at two CONT meetings. He also presented the annual reports in two plenary sessions of Parliament and took part in the discharge debate.
At the initiative of Ville Itälä, our Member responsible for Institutional Relations, President Caldeira also presented our 2015 work program to the Conference of Committee Chairs and was informed of their priority areas in order to plan our 2016 work programme.
In October 2015, CONT paid a working visit to the Court, continuing the practice of annual bilateral meetings at the Court's premises in Luxembourg. In addition, our representatives took part in visits to Member States (Greece) and recipient countries (Serbia) organized by CONT.
In 2015, our members represented the Court at 29 CONT meetings to discuss our annual and special reports.
In addition, our members presented nine special reports to the relevant committees.
We also organized a joint meeting with Parliament's Agriculture and Environment Committees to discuss issues of common interest and began working with Parliament's Research Service to promote more efficient knowledge sharing between our Examination Chambers and the Service.
We also began to work more closely with the Council to develop and improve relations with the Council and its respective Presidencies.
In November, President Caldeira and Pierre Gramegna, Luxembourg Minister of Finance and Chair of the Ecofin Council, met during the Luxembourg Presidency to discuss the follow-up to our 2014 Annual Report as part of the 2014 discharge process.
We presented our work program for 2015 and 15 special reports to various working groups of the Council.
In addition, we presented the different chapters of the annual report to the Council's budget committee as a basis for the discharge procedure.
Annual meeting of the Court's representatives with the Budgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament.
Our activities 38 Strengthening partnerships with national parliaments and authorities Throughout the year we worked closely with our stakeholders in Member States.
We systematically informed the national parliaments about our work.
In addition, the President and Members of the Court presented the annual report to the national parliaments and authorities of most Member States.
We also held meetings with representatives of national parliaments and authorities at the Court's premises and in the Member States.
We continued our initiative, started in 2014, to organize high-level visits to EU Member States to deepen our partnerships with national authorities responsible for managing and auditing EU finances.
In April 2015, a high-level ECA delegation traveled to Poland to raise awareness of the importance of public financial scrutiny and accountability for EU funds, to improve the ECA's visibility in this regard and to launch a dialogue with the relevant Polish authorities.
This included meetings with Polish President Bronisław Komorowski, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, both chambers of Parliament, state and local authorities and in particular the SAI of Poland.
The main topics discussed were accountability and public scrutiny. Reference was also made to our recent landscape analysis of EU rules on accountability and public audit.
Meetings with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development provided an opportunity to discuss our landscape analyses, the results of relevant audits and best practices.
Our delegation visited two EU funded projects. One is managed by the public sector, the other by a private beneficiary.
The high-level visit to Poland was complemented by visits to the Czech Republic (June 2015) and Bulgaria (November 2015).
In the Czech Republic, our representatives met with the President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman, the Prime Minister and representatives of the Parliament.
They also took part in a joint meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies, where the results of audits in the areas of Common Agricultural Policy and Cohesion of the previous programming period, which were relevant for the Czech Republic, were discussed.
During this visit, our representatives contributed to the Conference on Electronic Data and Its Importance for Future Audits organized by the SAI of the Czech Republic.
During the visit to Bulgaria, our delegation met with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rosen Plevneliev, Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, Speaker of Parliament Tsetska Tsacheva and other parliamentarians.
In addition, delegation members took part in a conference on the importance of external audit for effective public sector management, held to mark the 135th anniversary of the founding of the SAI of Bulgaria and the 20th anniversary of the resumption of its activities.
From left to right: Vítor Caldeira (President of the European Court of Auditors), Krzysztof Kwiatkowski (President of the SAI of Poland) and Augustyn Kubik (Polish Member of the European Court of Auditors).
Our Activities 39 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs). This cooperation mainly takes place through • the Contact Committee of the SAIs of the EU Member States; • the network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • International organizations of public sector audit bodies, in particular the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its European regional group (EUROSAI).
Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court and the national audit bodies work together in a spirit of trust, while respecting their independence.
Cooperation with the SAIs of the EU Member States takes place actively within the framework of the Contact Committee. This includes an annual meeting and various working groups, networks and task forces addressing specific issues of common interest.
In 2015 the Contact Committee met in Riga.
During their meeting, the members of the Contact Committee discussed the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI), preventing and fighting irregularities and fraud, and the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020.
Questions about the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) were also discussed.
The Contact Committee adopted a statement on the accountability and auditing arrangements of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, addressed to national parliaments and governments and to the EU institutions and bodies concerned.
In addition, the Contact Committee agreed to the proposal to carry out parallel audits on the deployment of the SSM, as well as on the contribution of the Structural Funds to the Europe 2020 strategy and the underlying risks to the sustainability of public finances.
In November 2015, we hosted a kick-off meeting of the Structural Funds VII Working Group to set out a work plan for a new multilateral parallel audit to identify how EU funding in the areas of education and employment was making an effective contribution to the strategy achieve Europe 2020.
Network of Supreme Audit Institutions of Candidate and Potential Candidate Countries Cooperation between the Court and the SAIs of candidate and potential candidate countries takes place primarily through a network1, comparable to the Contact Committee.
In the course of 2015, we continued to support the network in conducting a parallel energy efficiency audit.
The last workshop on this project took place in May 2015 at the Court's premises in Luxembourg.
The Court is involved in the preparation of new projects, due to start in 2016, which focus on performance and financial audits.
In May 2015, ECA representatives attended an event celebrating the 90th anniversary of the founding of the SAI of Albania.
On this occasion, President Caldeira and the President of the Republic of Albania Bujar Nishani met.
Eight auditors from the SAI's network participated in our 2015 internship program.
1 As of January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and one potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has participated in the network as an observer. * This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the International Court of Justice Opinion on Kosovo's Declaration of Independence.
Our activities 40 Multilateral (INTOSAI – EUROSAI) and bilateral cooperation In 2015, we continued our active involvement and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI, particularly in their respective working bodies.
In November, the Court was appointed Vice-Chair of INTOSAI's Professional Standards Committee, effective from the International Congress of Supreme Audit Institutions (INCOSAI) in late 2016.
We also accepted the request of the SAI of Ukraine, which chairs the Audit of Disaster Relief Working Group, to host the first meeting of this working group.
The Court is also an active member of the EUROSAI Audit and Ethics Task Force, which seeks to promote ethics and integrity in SAIs and public institutions.
The main objective of the task force is to create a framework for promoting ethical behavior and to strengthen it by providing SAIs with appropriate practical guides and tools to support their day-to-day audit work.
We took part in the 5th EUROSAI-ARABOSAI joint conference, which covered the oversight of government bailout plans, and the 2nd Young EUROSAI conference, which gave young auditors the opportunity to discuss questions on topical issues .
We also attended the SAI's Global World Leadership Forum, which focused on the role of public sector auditors in 2030.
The Court has good bilateral relations with other SAIs.
For example, in 2015 our delegation took part in an international seminar organized by the SAI of Poland for auditors from Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine in Warsaw.
The delegation members shared their experiences of advancement and capacity building in preparation for EU accession with the SAIs of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and the Slovak Republic and provided training on our compliance and performance auditing methods.
Cooperation with SAIs in international peer reviews Peer reviews (expert opinions) are a common method of supporting good practice and promoting quality assurance.
The INTOSAI Peer Reviews Subcommittee is responsible for keeping the peer review guide ISSAI 5600 (ISSAI stands for International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions) up to date.
In 2015, we were instrumental in the revision of this guide, which will be presented to the 2016 INCOSAI Congress for adoption.
In addition, we took a leading role in the international peer reviews of the SAIs of Latvia, Spain and Switzerland.
The expert review of the SAI of Latvia was very comprehensive, covering accounting, compliance and performance audit methods and procedures, and the efficiency of support functions.
The expert review of the SAI of Spain, led by the SAI of Portugal, also covered many aspects of the functioning of that body.
We were the sole assessor in the expert assessment of the SAI of Switzerland.
The review assessed the appropriateness of this SAI's strategy, as well as its planning and quality control processes.
Our management 41 The Court's College The Court's College consists of one member from each Member State.
Members are appointed by the Council, after consultation of the European Parliament, on the basis of proposals from each Member State for a six-year term.
In accordance with the Treaty, the members carry out their activities with full independence and in the general interest of the European Union.
The President is elected by the members from among themselves for a period of three years.
The terms of office of the President and members are renewable.
Most members are assigned to one of the five chambers. The chambers adopt audit reports, opinions and position papers and make decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues.
In addition, each member is responsible for their own tasks, primarily in the field of auditing.
The member coordinates the respective audit teams with the support of his/her cabinet.
It then takes on the task of presenting the reports, opinions or position papers for approval by the Chamber and/or the entire Court College and then in Parliament, the Council and other relevant addressees, including the media.
In selected cases and at the initiative of the members, a report can also be presented to the authorities of the Member States concerned.
One of the members - Ville Itälä - is responsible for institutional relations.
The Council of the European Union appointed Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) as a Member of the ECA in 2015, on a proposal from the Member State and after consulting the European Parliament.
The mandate runs from 1 September 2015 to 28 February 2018, ie for the remainder of the term of office of the previous Danish member, Henrik Otbo, who died suddenly in February 2015.
The Court's College as at 31 December 2015.
Our Management 42 Organigram of the European Court of Auditors President Chamber I Conservation and Management of Natural Resources Chamber II Structural Policies, Transport and Energy Chamber III External Policies Chamber IV Revenue, Research and Internal Policies and European Union Institutions and Bodies CEAD ‐ Chamber Coordination, Evaluation, Quality Assurance and Development Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Augustyn KUBIK Poland Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Milan Martin CVIKL Slovenia Igors LUDBORŽS Latvia Jan KINŠT Czech Republic Ladislav BALKO Slovakia Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Louis GALEA Malta Lazaros S. LAZAROU Cyprus Kersti KALJULAID Estonia Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Pietro RUSSO Italy Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Rasa BUDBERGYTĖ Lithuania George PUFAN Romania Danièle LAMARQUE France Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Phil WYNN OWEN United Kingdom I Klaus-Heiner LEHNE Germany Neven MATES Croatia Member responsible for Institutional Relations Bettina JAKOBSEN Denmark Oskar HERICS Austria Doyen Doyen Doyen Doyen Alex BRENNINKMEIJER Netherlands Ville ITÄLÄ Finland Doyen
Our management 43 Our strategy for 2013-2017: continuous progress Our five-year strategy aims to maximize the value of our contribution to EU public accountability.
Our key priorities to achieve this goal are shown in the figure below: Many of the initiatives launched under the strategy have already been implemented.
We have increased the range of outputs, deepened and broadened our relationships with our stakeholders, accelerated our review processes and improved the way we measure our own performance.
In 2015, the Court decided to reform its organizational structure.
In this way, we will take account of the European Parliament's recommendations on the Court's future role, as well as the results of the international peer review process carried out on our performance audits in 2014.
Court's strategic priorities for 2013-2017 ALIGNING THE COURT'S PRODUCTS TO ENHANCING EU ACCOUNTABILITY WORKING WITH OUR PARTNERS IN THE ACCOUNTABILITY PROCESS DEMONSTRATING THE COURT'S PERFORMANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY 03 04 MAKING THE BEST USE OF THE COURT'S KNOWLEDGE OF KNOWLEDGE THE EXPERTISE AND EXPERTISE AT ITS DISPOSAL TO DEVELOP THE COURT AS A PROFESSIONAL AUDIT BODY 01 05 02
Our Management 44 Reform the Court GOAL 1 FURTHER STREAMLINE THE AUDIT PROCESS GOAL 2 ESTABLISH A TASK-BASED ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL FLEXIBLY RESPONSE TO A RAPIDLY CHANGING ENVIRONMENT OVER TIME DELIVERY FLEXIBLE RESOURCES FOR PRIORITY AUDIT TASKS AND OUR UPCOMING WORKS IN BETTER PREPARATION Strategy for 2013-2017 Peer review by the SAIs of Germany, France and Sweden European Parliament's report on the future role of the SAI Preparing for a task-based organizational model Flexible and adaptable SAI 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 - 10 key actions - Consultation - Court decisions - General design - Detailed design - Pilot project - Implementation - In force from 01/01/2016 - Training and other measures MEASURES IMPULSE BASIC PRINCIPLE
Our management 45 Reacting flexibly in a rapidly changing environment We have developed a new work planning process that allows us to plan our work based on farm-wide priorities and a comprehensive risk assessment.
We now systematically consider the viewpoints of our audience when planning our work to ensure that our reports are as relevant as possible.
With the support of our Member responsible for Institutional Relations, our President and Members work with EU stakeholders, which include the committees of the European Parliament.
Flexible allocation of resources to audit priority tasks We have organized our staff into flexible teams around specific tasks rather than units to facilitate the allocation of priority tasks.
This means that we can now “put the right person in the right job” and thereby fully utilize their skills and potential.
The reform also led to a more streamlined administration of the Court: Heads of Units became Senior Managers, sharing managerial responsibilities under the direction of the relevant Director, and contributing their expertise in the areas of quality and oversight.
We are also strengthening our expertise in audit areas and introducing knowledge transfer tools to further improve our knowledge management processes.
Timely Delivery of Products We have streamlined our review procedures and simplified our task management to enable us to deliver products in a timely manner.
In recent years we have steadily reduced the average time it takes to produce our special reports, and the reform will allow for a further reduction.
This is particularly important in the context of the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation.
Better communication about our role and our work We have revised our annual report to refer to the headings of the multiannual financial framework, making it easier to use and more reader-friendly.
In the Annual Report, we now report on the top spending areas as well as performance on a multi-year basis.
We have also strengthened the communication and stakeholder relations functions and hired a spokesperson.
Our management 46 Measuring performance Since 2008, we have used Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform management of progress towards our goals, to support the decision-making process and to provide our stakeholders with information about performance.
They reflect our priorities and provide insight into our performance and accountability as a professional auditing body.
The indicators are used to measure core parameters for the quality and impact of our work, with special consideration of the point of view of important addressees as well as the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of resources.
The ZLI have been updated for the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy.
Quality and impact of our work We assess the quality and impact of our reports through user judgments and peer reviews.
We also measure our presence in the media.
Assessed by stakeholders We asked our key stakeholders – the Budgetary Control and Budgetary Control Committees of the European Parliament, the Budget Committee of the Council, the main auditees at the Commission and the EU Agencies, and the Presidents of the EU SAIs – to assess the relevance and impact of our 2015 published reports using a five-point scale from "very low" to "very high".
Responses show that 90% of our key stakeholders rate the value of our reports as relevant to their work (up from 94% in 2014). 92% believe our work is having an impact (91% in 2014).
User assessment 10% 21% 45% 24% 2% 0% very low low 20% medium high 40% very high Relevantness of reports Likely impact of reports 60% 80% 100% 6% 23% 45% 24%
Our management 47 Expert reviews Each year, independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of our reports to assess quality. In 2015, the reviewers assessed four special reports and the annual reports for the financial year 2014.
They rated the quality of various aspects of the reports using a four-point scale from “seriously impaired” (1) to “high” (4).
Expert ratings in 2015 were higher than at any time in the last four years, with an overall average of 3.3 across both types of reports.
Follow-up to recommendations The main way we help improve EU financial management is by making recommendations in our reports to the Commission and other auditees.
Some recommendations can be implemented quickly, while others require more time due to their complexity.
We regularly check to what extent our recommendations have been implemented by the audited bodies.
By the end of 2015, 73% of over 600 recommendations that we formulated in 2012-2015 had been implemented.
This represents an increase on the 69% implementation rate recorded in 2014 for the recommendations made in 2011-2014.
Expert reviews of court reports 2012 2013 2014 2015 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.3 Assessment of quality 01234 Implementation of court recommendations by year of submission 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 91% 80% 50% 50% 2012 2013 2014 2015
It concerns the strategic objective of raising awareness of the Court, its products and its audit findings and conclusions.
In 2015 we identified around 3 400 online articles related to our special reports, annual reports and the Court in general.
54% of these related to our audit reports; the remaining articles referred to the court and its work in general.
In 2015, our annual reports received almost twice as much media coverage as in 2014.
On the other hand, media coverage of our special reports has decreased compared to 2014, largely due to interest in one particular report from that year (EU-funded airport infrastructure (n°21/2014), on which over 800 articles have been published).
Efficiency and Effectiveness of Resource Use We evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of our resource use based on our ability to execute our work program, conduct audits in a timely manner and ensure the professional competence of our employees.
Implementation of the work program We plan our audit and other tasks against the annual work program and monitor progress throughout the year.
In 2015, we implemented 88% of our work program.
Whilst the work on the annual reports and special annual reports was on track, on special reports this was 69% true compared to our very ambitious plan.
The completion of the remainder of the special reports, which has been delayed due to outstanding audit evidence or unexpected complexity, has been pushed over to early 2016.
These special reports mainly concern new or innovative tests, which by their very nature may take longer to complete.
The Court's reform project, assessed under the heading 'Other tasks', progressed as planned.
Implementation of the Court's 2015 work program 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Special annual reports Special annual reports Other tasks Total 100% 100% 69% 100% 88%
Our management 49 Preparation of the special reports For our special reports to be effective, they must be submitted in a timely manner.
In recent years we have managed to shorten the time required for exams. This was largely based on initiatives stemming from the strategy for 2013-2017.
In 2015, we prepared our 25 special reports within an average period of 17 months (19 months in 2014), i.e. in less than 18 months for the first time.
We will continue our efforts to reduce the time it takes to produce our special reports, in particular in response to the new principle introduced in the revised Financial Regulation.
Professional Development In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we aim to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional development (excluding language courses).
The target for the professional development of auditors was again exceeded, demonstrating the great importance we place on staff development.
If the language courses are taken into account in 2015, one examiner had an average of 9.4 training days.
Processing time of special reports published in 2013-2015 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 5% 1 SB 4% 1 SB 4% 1 SB More than 26 months 18-26 months 10-18 months 60% 12 SB 54% 13 SB 35% 7 SB 42% 10 SB 2013 2014 2015 36% 9 SB 60% 15 SB Training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Average number of training days for examiners (without language courses) Target ≥ 5 days 6.4 5.8 6.2 2013 2014 2015 days
Support for the 50 audit activities Human resources Staff allocation In 2015 we continued the five-year (2013-2017) reduction in staff of 1% per year, as set out in the Interinstitutional Agreement on Budgetary Discipline and Sound Financial Management of December 2013.
As a result, the staffing level was reduced from 882 officials and temporary agents to 872 in 2015 (excluding members, contract agents, seconded national experts and trainees).
The audit staff included 562 staff, including 113 staff in Members' private offices.
Recruitment The Court's staff come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds and the quality of their work and commitment is reflected in the Court's output.
Our recruitment policy follows the general principles and employment conditions of the EU institutions. The staff consists of civil servants as well as temporary employees.
In 2015 we recruited 63 staff: 30 officials, 17 temporary agents, 11 contract agents, four seconded national experts and one adviser.
We also provided internships for 74 university graduates for periods of three to five months.
On 31 December 2015, the Court had only 15 vacant posts (1.7% of the total number of posts).
Distribution of Court posts at 31 December 2015 Total 891 Total 882 Total 872 31 39 41 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 Audit Services 100 137 141 133 147 141 136 576 561 562 Presidential Services Translation 2 0 20141 Administration
Supporting audit activities 51 Gender balance Like the other EU institutions, we have an equal opportunities policy in human resources management and recruitment.
For several years we have been able to maintain a balanced proportion of men and women among our employees.
The chart shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as of December 31, 2015. These proportions have hardly changed in recent years.
With our action plan in the area of equal opportunities, a balanced proportion of men and women should be achieved at all levels.
After the latest waves of recruitment, 50% of staff in grades AD 5 to AD 8 are women (an increase from 48% in 2014).
Due to the renewal in the upper and middle management levels and the growing proportion of women in the function group AD, it is to be expected that the proportion of women in management positions will increase in the future.
Ratio of men to women by level of responsibility 35% 65% Assistants - Secretaries Auditors - Directors Management 59% 41% 69% 31% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Support for audit activities 53 Age profile Age group 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0% 0.3% 3.0% 8.0% 13 .7% 9.6% 20.3% 20.9% 19.6% 20% 25% 4.1% 0.6% 5% 10% 15% The age profile of the personnel in active service as of December 31, 2015 indicates that 52% of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
Thirty-two of the 69 directors and senior managers (46%) are aged 55 or over.
As a result, over the next five to ten years, as these employees retire, there will be renewal in senior management positions.
Support services Continuing professional development The auditing profession requires ongoing training to keep up with developments in the profession and to acquire new skills.
In 2015, our employees completed an average of 7.3 days of professional development.
The share of language courses in the total number of training days continues to decline.
Language courses accounted for 35% of the total number of training days in 2015 (compared to 43% in 2014).
Our main activities related to professional development concern the modernization of our professional development programs and closer cooperation with learning opportunities inside and outside the EU institutions and bodies.
We created a collaboration with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France) to offer a postgraduate course in Audit of public organizations and policies and a Masters course in Management of public organizations (Management public organizations) to be able to offer.
Cooperation has continued with the European Commission, which offers language courses for our staff, and with the European Administrative Academy, which has supported us in organizing the soft skills training and the ECA training day.
We have also further expanded our range of courses with individually tailored e-learning courses and training courses in the form of integrated learning (blended learning).
In addition, we continued our successful series of presentations given by internal and external experts on audit developments and other issues affecting our auditors' work.
Finally, we introduced a framework for 'Performance Recognition Awards', designed to recognize the performance of non-managerial staff with dedicated off-court training.
Audit support 54 Translation Translation is an audit support activity that enables us to fulfill our mission and achieve our communication goals.
In 2015, the total translation volume was higher than ever: almost 200,000 pages, an increase of almost 3% compared to 2014.
Around 99% of translations were completed on time.
In addition to normal translation work, our translators provided language support on 26 audit visits across the EU and interpretation at internal events and meetings.
They also provided assistance in the drafting of preliminary observations and special reports, thereby increasing their involvement in the Court's core audit processes.
In 2015, as a result of the translation workflow review and the Court's reform, the Translation Directorate streamlined its structures by introducing pools of assistants.
A major management project, GroupShare, will bring significant improvements by further streamlining the work of the assistant pools to make room for efficiencies and automation. It also unifies the procedures of all language teams.
Information Technology In 2015, the Information Technologies Directorate focused its efforts on adapting our administrative information systems to support a successful implementation of the Court's reform, as well as preparing developments in the field of knowledge management to support the Court's new organizational structure.
In addition, all functions of the full version of the audit documentation system Assyst2 for work related to the declaration of assurance, performance audits and related reports have been introduced. This completes this major project.
Our new Audit Management System (AMS) went live: more than 300 plans were created in the system and 180 audit tasks were defined and monitored with the tool.
Building on the technical bases for mobility introduced in recent years (deployment of the WiFi network in all premises of the Court, equipment of all staff with laptops), the Directorate is currently focusing on global mobility, ie access to all content any place, any time and on any device.
The project to develop a solution that ensures employees can access our information on any device will help keep the farm running and increase efficiency and effectiveness.
Business operations were maintained during the development and provision of IT solutions, so critical systems were 99.82% available.
Supporting audit activities 55 Management and infrastructure The role of the Finance and Support Services Directorate is to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfill its mission and achieve its strategic objectives.
The Directorate also ensures that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are in place to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2015, the management continued to focus on making its activities even more efficient and economical.
Due to the extraordinary situation after the terrorist attacks in Paris in November and the subsequent crisis situation in Belgium, we tightened our security measures and acquired the necessary security equipment as part of public procurement procedures.
Information on public procurement is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Buildings The Court currently owns three buildings ('K1', 'K2' and 'K3') and rents small spaces for its IT center for data recovery and a meeting room.
He also rents three offices in Brussels and one office in Strasbourg from the European Parliament.
In order to ensure the cost-effectiveness of our building policy, we consider three factors: purchase or rental, follow-up costs and inter-institutional cooperation.
In developing and implementing our facilities policy, as in everything we do, we strive to maintain and meet the highest standards of transparency and accountability.
Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) The Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) is a management tool developed by the European Commission for companies and other organizations to assess, report and improve their environmental performance.
We started in 2014 to develop an environmental management system2 in line with the principles of the European EMAS standard provided for in the 2009 Regulation of the European Parliament and Council3.
Our goal is EMAS certification by the end of 2016.
In 2015, the EMAS project achieved the planned progress.
2 The EMAS project at the farm started in July 2013.
3 Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of November 25, 2009 on the voluntary participation of organizations in a Community system for environmental management and auditing (EMAS).
Support for audit activities 56 Financial information The Court is funded from the general budget of the European Union.
Our budget accounts for around 0.087% of total EU expenditure and 1.51% of total administrative expenditure.
In 2015, the implementation rate of the total available budget was 98.68%.
Implementation of the 2015 budget FINANCIAL YEAR 2015 Final appropriations Commitments % use of appropriations (commitments/ appropriations allocated) Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (1 000 euros) 10 - Members of the institution 10 171 10 054 99% 9 978 12 - Officials and temporary staff 94 517 94 118 99% 94 072 14 - Other staff and external services 4 651 4 559 98% 4 502 162 - Missions 3 600 3 162 88% 2 620 161, 163, 165 - Other expenses for members and the staff of the institution 2 819 2 753 98% 1 903 subtotal Title 1 115 758 114 646 99% 113 075 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenditure 20 – buildings 4 143 4 140 99% 2 071 210 – data processing and telecommunications 8 557 8 557 100% 3 940 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and associated expenses 1 110 1 081 97% 768 23 – Current administrative expenses 421 332 79% 260 25 – Meetings and conferences 717 634 88% 467 27 – Information and Publications 2 200 1 756 80% 1 330 Title 2 subtotal 17 148 16 500 96% 8 836 Total 132 906 131 146 98% 121 911
Support for audit activities 57 2016 budget The appropriations in the 2016 budget show an increase of 1.94% compared to 2015.
Budget 2016 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 20 - Buildings 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and associated costs 23 - Current administrative expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 10 885 98 881 4 876 3 600 2 911 7 347 2 401 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 3 080 BUDGET 2016 (1 000 euros) 2015 (1 000 euros) Title 1: Members and Staff of the institution 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure related to members and staff of the institution 2 559 2 669 Subtotal Title 1 120 801 118 381 Title 2: buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenditure 7 152 882 785 439 426 706 717 2 365 Title 2 subtotal 14 686 14 525 Total 135487 132 906
Supporting the audit activities 58 Audit and accountability Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2015, the European Parliament granted discharge to our Secretary-General for the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2013, meaning that our 2013 accounts were finally approved.
We have carefully analyzed the issues raised during the discharge process regarding our audit and management responsibilities and have also taken appropriate action as part of our reform.
We reported on our follow-up to the European Parliament.
Internal and external audit The Court's internal audit The internal audit service advises the Court on risk control issues, providing opinions on the quality of the management and internal control systems and recommendations for improving the management of our operations and promoting sound financial management.
The service also supports the work of the external auditor, whose mandate is to certify the Court's annual accounts.
Finally, the Internal Audit service provides information on significant risks and corporate governance issues.
The work of the Internal Audit Service is overseen by an Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee regularly reviews the progress of the various tasks set out in the Internal Audit Service's work programme.
The committee also ensures the independence of the internal audit service.
In 2015, the Internal Audit Service prepared specific reports on strategic issues such as changes in our annual report, mid-term review of the implementation of our strategy for the period 2013-2017, and follow-up on the implementation of the peer review and European Parliament recommendations.
Taking into account the 2014 recommendations of the Internal Audit Service to strengthen the internal control cycle, we updated our IT security system and formalized the existing risk management framework and policies.
The Internal Audit Service monitored the implementation of the new guidelines and ensured that their recommendations were taken into account.
We report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
The Court's external audit Our annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach of applying to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the entities it audits.
The auditor's report - PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à rl - on our financial statements for the financial year 2014 was published on September 15, 2015.
Supporting the audit activities 59 Opinions of the Independent Auditor - Financial Year 2014 Concerning the financial statements: "In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2014, and of its results of operations and cash flows for the year ended year-ending in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules of application for the Financial Regulation." Regarding the use of resources and the control procedures: "In the work steps described in this report, we have not come across any facts from which we would have to conclude that in all material respects and taking into account the right nth assessment criteria • the funds allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and • the control procedures put in place do not offer the necessary guarantee that the financial transactions have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
Declaration of the 60 Authorizing Officer by Delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, in his capacity as Authorizing Officer by Delegation, hereby declare • that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and • certifies with reasonable assurance that — the appropriations earmarked for the activities described in this report have been provided, used for their intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, — the control procedures put in place provide the necessary assurances as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and that allegations of fraud or suspected fraud are dealt with appropriately , — the costs and benefits of the controls are reasonable.
This security is based on the undersigned's assessment and the information available to him, e.g. B. the reports and declarations of the authorizing officers by sub-delegation, the reports of the internal auditor and the opinions of the independent auditor for previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg on February 25, 2016 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
Permission to reproduce or reproduce the following photos must be sought directly from the copyright holder: © EU 2015, Source: European Court of Auditors, p.1 (photo 3), p.2, p.5; Architects of the European Court of Auditors buildings: Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013) and Paul Noël (1988). © Najwyższa Izba Kontroli (NIK), p. 38 / Photo: Krzysztof Andrzejewski.
Reproduction of the following photos is authorized provided that the copyright holder, the source and the name of the photographer are credited: © EU 2015, source: European Court of Auditors, p. 1 (photo 1), pp. 4, 8, 16, 23, 25, 31, 35, 36, 37, 41, 42; © EU 2015, Source: European Parliament - Audiovisual Service / Photo: Stephanie Lecocq, p. 1 (photo 2); Geneviève Engel, p. 10; © EU 2015, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service / Photo: Maciej Szkopanski, p. 20 (photo 1); Shlamov Vano, p. 26; © EU 2014, source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service / Etienne Ansotte, p. 19 (photo 2); Denis Lovrovic, p. 17 (photos 1 and 2) and p. 20 (photo 2); © EU 2013, source: Europol, p. 14; Source: European Court of Auditors, p. 24; © EU 2012, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service / Photo: Nikolay Doychinov, p. 18; © EU 2011, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service / Photo: Anoek De Groot, p. 22; Source: European Court of Auditors, p. 32; © EU 2009, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service / Photo: Melinda Bodo, p. 21; © EU 2008, Source: European Commission - DG Development and Cooperation - Europeaid, p. 13; © EC 2001, source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service, p. 33; © EC 1999, Source: European Commission - DG Development and Cooperation - Europeaid, p. 29; © EC 1995, Source: European Commission - Audiovisual Service / Photo: Wood processing company Estkip in Jõhvi, p. 27; © EU, source: European Court of Auditors, p. 19 (photo 1), 28.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN 2017 activity report
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2018 Print ISBN 978-92-872-9644-3 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-9665-8 HTML ISBN 978-92-872-9455-5 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315- 3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi: 10.2865/281586 doi: 10.2865/91294 doi: 10.2865/4624 QJ-AA-18-001-DE-C QJ-AA-18-001-DE-N QJ-AA-18-001- DE-Q
01 Pictures are the best way to bring the past 40 years to life.
The photos above show the day-to-day work of the many hundreds of employees who have worked at the farm over the past decades.
A selection of these photos were published on our website (eca.europa.eu) and on social media (@EUauditors) during 2017.
European Court of Auditors 02 About the Court The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the EU's external auditor and one of the seven institutions of the Union.
The Court's College has 28 members, one from each EU Member State.
The Court employs around 900 staff of all EU nationalities, made up of auditors and administrative staff.
It was established in 1977 and is based in Luxembourg.
The Court's tasks The Court checks that the EU keeps its accounts properly, ensures that its financial rules are correctly followed and that EU policies and programs deliver value for money.
Through our audit work, the Court helps improve the EU's financial management and promotes accountability and transparency.
It warns of risks, provides assurance, highlights weaknesses and successes, and provides guidance to EU policymakers and legislators.
The Court submits its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national parliaments and the general public.
The European Court of Auditors buildings on the Kirchberg plateau in Luxembourg, 2017
Contents 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 Foreword by the President 5 2017 at a glance 6 Our activities 6 Audits 8 Publications 19 Key events 21 Relations with institutional stakeholders 24 Cooperation with supreme audit institutions 26 Our management 26 The College of Members 26 Audit Chambers and Committees 28 Strategy 29 Work planning 29 Performance measurement 34 Our people 34 Staff allocation 34 Recruitment 35 Age profile 35 Gender balance 37 Support for audit activities 37 Professional training 37 Translation 37 Information technology 38 Buildings 39 Environmental management 40 Accountability of the Court 40 Financial information 42 Internal and external audit 44 Statement of the Authorizing Officer by Delegation 45 Annex - Publications in 2017: special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications
Foreword by the President 04 Dear readers!
The European Court of Auditors started its work in 1977 - 40 years later we can look back on many successful contributions we have made to public accountability and EU financial management.
An official ceremony was held in October 2017 to mark the court's anniversary, at which Their Royal Highnesses the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg, the President of the Republic of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid, the President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani and the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker were present.
Your participation in the event is a great testament to the importance of the Court as the 'financial conscience' of the European Union.
However, as the year progressed, we also looked ahead.
So we discussed and agreed a strategy for the remaining three years of the current Multiannual Financial Framework until the end of 2020.
Our citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that they do not lose confidence in the EU and its institutions.
People need to be able to see that the EU is acting with integrity, upholding the rule of law, using public funds wisely, pursuing clear political goals and delivering the results it promised.
As the Union's external auditor, we are well placed to review and report on these aspects.
Throughout the year we have issued special reports on a wide range of EU policies and programmes, as well as analysis-based publications such as landscape analyzes and quick analyses.
We have also prepared several opinions on legislative proposals and, as every year, we have produced our annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds, as well as on the EU agencies and many other Union bodies.
This activity report provides a comprehensive overview of our activities in 2017 and contains key information about the Court, its budget and its staff.
Klaus Heiner Lehne President
2017 at a glance 05 Our activities Our management • 28 special reports examining the effectiveness and • added value of EU policies and programs in areas such as youth unemployment, environment, migration and banking union; • a landscape analysis on EU action in the fields of energy and climate change and a rapid analysis on staff reductions in the EU institutions; • • five opinions on new or amended EU legislation with significant implications for financial management, including one opinion on the Financial Regulation for the • EU budget and one opinion on the funding of European political parties; • Annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget as well as on the activities of the European Development Funds with the associated synopsis report "2016 - Summary of the EU audit"; • • 55 specific annual reports covering the annual accounts of each EU agency, body and Joint Undertaking located in different Member States, including two summary reports; • Meetings, seminars and conferences with our institutional stakeholders and peers, such as the meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States and conferences on youth unemployment and energy, climate change and impact assessment.
We welcomed two new members: Juhan Parts (Estonia) on January 1, 2017 and Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary) on September 1, 2017. • We issued a new multi-year strategy to guide our work and management in 2018 -2020 serves. We also revised our work planning to ensure a more strategic, coherent and Court-wide approach to planning our audit priorities. We also reviewed our risk management policy and strengthened our financial processes. • We continued the downsizing agreed among the EU institutions, while implementing policies of equal opportunities in recruitment and human resource management.
What we do 06 Audits We carry out different types of audits in the different budget areas of the EU: • Performance audits - looking at the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes.
These best use reviews focus on specific management or budget issues, which we select based on criteria such as public interest, room for improvement, risk of underperformance or irregularities; • Financial and compliance audits - looking at the reliability of the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions (particularly in relation to the Statement of Assurance) as well as assessments of whether the systems or transactions in specific budget areas comply with the relevant rules and regulations to match.
Based on the evidence collected during our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the extent to which the EU's policy objectives have been achieved and on the state of the Union's budgetary and financial management.
This information helps us make recommendations that are useful and cost-effective.
Audit visits in 2017 Most of the audit work takes place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg.
At the same time, our auditors also carried out numerous audit visits to the other EU institutions, agencies and bodies and EU delegations, to national, regional and local authorities in the Member States and to international organizations such as the United Nations, throughout 2017 involved in the allocation of EU funds.
We also carry out on-site inspections of recipients of EU funds inside and outside the European Union.
Through these controls, we obtain direct audit evidence from the entities involved in the management of EU policies and programs and the collection and payment of EU funds, as well as from the respective beneficiaries.
Audits are our core activity The frequency and intensity of our audit work in each Member State and recipient country depends on the type of audits we conduct.
In 2017, our auditors spent 3 670 days on-site in Member States and outside the EU (2016: 4 246 days).
Within the EU, our on-the-spot checks are often carried out in liaison with the Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) of the Member States visited.
3 670 days of on-site inspections in Member States and outside the EU in 2017 Our auditors also spent 2 300 days (2016: 2 510 days) at the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg and at decentralized agencies and bodies across the EU EU, international organizations such as the United Nations or the OECD as well as auditing companies.
We are making increasing use of video conferencing and other information technologies (such as the secure exchange of data and documents) to obtain and validate audit evidence.
Our activities 07 5 970 test days in 2017 Spain Italy Poland France Germany United Kingdom Greece Czech Republic Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Estonia Netherlands Ireland Austria Sweden Finland Lithuania Denmark Latvia Slovenia Slovakia Malta Croatia Belgium Cyprus Luxembourg Lebanon Niger Georgia Norway Nigeria Serbia Gabon Angola Switzerland Guinea- Bissau Zimbabwe Burkina Faso Malawi Mali Bosnia and Herzegovina Jordan Barbados United States Ghana Sudan Ethiopia Turkey Myanmar/Burma 293 280 260 377 371 153 EU Member States (3 215 verification days) 5 970 verification days Third countries (455 verification days) EU institutions and bodies (2 300 Testing days) 129 125 120 117 117 103 84 68 66 52 44 32 31 23 23 18 10 4 6 11 12 13 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 26 38 41 46 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400
Our activities 08 Fraud detection We work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to fight fraud against the EU budget.
These cases are then followed up by OLAF, which decides on possible investigations and cooperates with Member State authorities where necessary.
In 2017, we referred 13 suspected fraud cases identified during our audits to OLAF. Although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we occasionally come across cases in our audit work where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activity.
In 2017, we forwarded 13 such cases (2016: 11) suspected of fraud to OLAF. The suspicion of fraud arose as part of our audit work for the statements of assurance for the financial years 2016 and 2017 as well as other audit tasks.
Publications Our publications: special reports, annual reports, opinions and analysis-based publications Our audit reports and opinions are an important link in the EU's accountability chain, as they are used to hold those responsible for the EU's budgetary management to account, particularly during the annual discharge process to pull.
In areas of shared management, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role, as in the case of spending on agricultural and cohesion measures. Around 80% of the EU budget is implemented in this way.
Our range of publications includes • Special reports presenting the results of selected audits on specific policy or spending areas, or on budgetary or managerial issues; • Annual reports covering mainly the results of financial and compliance audits of the European Union budget and the European Development Funds, but also covering budgetary and performance aspects; • Separately published specific annual reports on the EU Agencies, Decentralized Bodies and Joint Undertakings; • Opinions on new or amended legal acts with significant implications for financial management, prepared either at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative;
What we do 09 • Analysis-based publications: • Landscape analyzes are descriptive and analytical documents on complex, broad policy areas or management issues, in which we present our experience and accumulated knowledge on the chosen topic, often from a cross-cutting perspective; • Issue papers are similar to landscape reviews in that they are also descriptive and analytical documents on policy or management, but their topics are more limited; • in the rapid case reviews, facts are compiled and presented that relate to very clearly defined specific issues or problems.
All publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
In addition, all special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications from 2017 are listed at the end of this report.
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total: 93 3 28 55 52 Special reports Annual reports** Number of publications in 2017 Analysis-based publications Opinions Special annual reports* 2017 * Special annual reports and summary reports on EU agencies and JUs. ** The annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, the annual report on the European Development Funds and the summary report "2016 - Summary report on the EU audit".
Our activities 10 annual reports Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016 In our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016, we examined how EU funds had been spent in the financial year under review and identified in which areas the risk of EU funds being misused was greatest.
In addition, we have specifically assessed all major areas of the EU budget - based on the headings of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 - and provided information on budgetary and financial management as well as performance-related information.
We also analyzed why errors had occurred and made recommendations for possible improvements.
Audit of around 1 000 payments to beneficiaries made from the EU budget in 2016 Our auditors examined around 1 000 payments to beneficiaries made across the different spending areas of the EU budget.
This means that we analyzed around 1 000 different cases where EU funds had been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research organisations, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
The discharge procedure begins with the presentation of our annual report for the 2016 financial year The publication of our annual report marks the beginning of the discharge procedure carried out by the European Parliament for the implementation of the EU budget.
On 28 September we presented our annual report to the Budgetary Control Committee (CONT) of the European Parliament and subsequently also to the plenary of the European Parliament, as well as to the ECOFIN Council and the national parliaments of the Member States.
Our activities 11 EU annual accounts give a true and fair view; The proportion of irregular expenditure continued to decrease in 2016 Main conclusions ƒ The 2016 accounts have been prepared in accordance with international standards and, in all material respects, give a true and fair view of EU finances. ƒ Revenues in 2016 were free from material error. ƒ In recent years, the estimated level of error in payments made from the EU budget has continuously improved: 2016: 3.1%, 2015: 3.8% and 2014: 4.4%.
In 2016, a significant part of the expenditure audited – entitlement-based payments (as opposed to reimbursement-based payments) – was not affected by material error. ƒ The Commission's reporting on regularity is broadly consistent with our findings in most areas.
However, the Commission should simplify performance measurement, for example by reducing the number of objectives and indicators. ƒ Corrective actions by Member States and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Without these measures, our estimated total error rate would have been 1.2 percentage points higher.
However, sufficient information was available to prevent or detect and correct a significant proportion of errors. ƒ The total amount of payments committed by the EU under future budgets was at an all-time high and is expected to continue to rise.
Our activities 12 Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget gives for the first time a qualified opinion on the regularity of EU spending Lazaros S. Lazarou, the Member of the ECA responsible for the annual report Unqualified opinion Error rate is less than 2% Qualified opinion Error rate is more than 2 %, but only certain budget areas are affected Bad audit opinion Error rate is more than 2%, affecting the entire budget “The annual report for the financial year 2016 is of historical importance as it differs significantly from previous reports.
For the first time, we gave a qualified audit opinion and no longer a negative opinion on compliance with the legislation on the expenditure side.' Comparison between estimated error rates for EU spending areas (2014-2016) Estimated error rates 5.7 5.6 2014 2015 2016 5.2 4.8 4.4 4.1 3.6 2.9 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.1 0.6 0.5 Spending area Economic, social and territorial cohesion 0.2 Competitive Natural Europe in managing ability for resource world growth and employment
Our activities 13 Our institutional users also need information on EU spending results “This year's qualified opinion shows significant improvements in EU finances.
In the future, we will reconsider how we audit the EU budget: − We will pay more attention to the internal controls carried out at European Commission and Member State level, so that we can promote accountability even better and further improve EU financial management to enhance. − We will also focus more on performance aspects to ensure that EU citizens' funds are used in the best possible way.' The importance of focusing on the performance of EU spending and the results achieved was also emphasized by Joachim Zeller, Member of the European Parliament and rapporteur for the 2016 discharge: Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, presenting the annual report at the plenary session of the European Parliament on 4 October 2017 in Strasbourg " Information such as error rates or, for example, information on whether Structural Funds have been used correctly is important, but we should also look at what has been achieved with these funds.” Joachim Zeller, Member of the European Parliament, rapporteur for the 2016 discharge
Our activities 14 Annual report on the European Development Funds The European Development Funds (EDFs) provide financial assistance to African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) and overseas countries and territories.
Funded by the Member States, the EDFs are managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and, for some aid, by the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Around a third of the overall error rate in the EDFs is due to non-compliance with procurement rules.
Other important types of error include expenditure that is either not actually incurred or is ineligible.
Our annual report on the EDFs is published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Special annual reports The EU agencies and other bodies, as well as the European Joint Undertakings, are based in different EU Member States. They carry out specific tasks in areas of greatest concern to EU citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice, and research.
In 2017, we checked whether the agencies' accounts were reliable and whether the transactions underlying them were compliant.
In forming our opinions on the agencies' financial statements, we consider audit work performed by public accounting firms, where available.
We also examined the Sisnet communications infrastructure, the European Schools, the contingent liabilities of the Single Resolution Board and the liquidation of the Galileo Joint Undertaking.
We have been working to consolidate the results and expect to issue a single report to the agencies in 2018. i Key data Budget of the EDFs 2016 3.4 billion euro Audited amount 2.8 billion euro Accounting Reliable Revenue Non-errant Payments Significantly errored (estimated error rate of 3.3%) i Key data Audited by the Court 45 agencies and others EU bodies, 8 Joint Undertakings Total 2016 budget €5.2 billion Total 2016 staff Around 11 000 staff The Court publishes 55 specific annual reports, including two summary reports
Our activities 15 agencies (budget of 3.4 billion euros, 10 364 staff) Our audit shows that the annual accounts of all 41 agencies give a true and fair view.
The financial transactions underlying the accounts were legal and regular for all agencies except for the European Asylum Support Office, for which we gave a qualified opinion for non-compliance with public procurement principles.
Joint Undertakings (budget of €1.8 billion, 633 employees) The financial statements of all eight Joint Undertakings were reliable.
They presented the assets and financial position of the Joint Undertakings and the results of their operations and cash flows for 2016 in all material respects as a whole and appropriately.
In addition, the transactions underlying the accounts of seven JUs were in compliance with the relevant legal requirements, except for the ECSEL JU, for which we gave a qualified audit opinion as we could not obtain reasonable assurance on the reliability of its internal controls over FP7 grant payments .
All the specific annual reports, as well as the two summary reports, are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Special reports In 2017, we published 28 special reports.
In these reports, we examined in particular whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programs were being met, whether the results were being achieved in an effective and economical manner, and whether added value was being created with EU funds.
We also made recommendations for improvements in terms of financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or achieving the desired policy goals more cost-effectively.
In particular, the special reports examine the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes. Our special reports focused on issues reflecting issues relevant to the EU, such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, generating growth and promoting inclusion, challenges related to migration and global development, the internal market and banking union, and ensuring the accountability and efficiency of the European Union.
Here we will take a closer look at two of those 28 special reports: a special report on food waste, which examined whether EU policies were adequate to tackle this problem along the entire food supply chain, and a special report on the Greek financial crisis, in which it was examined how the EU reacted with the economic adjustment programs to the financial and debt crisis in one of its member states.
Our activities 16 COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND JOBS ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND TERRITORIAL COHESION • Program closures • Partnership agreements • Ex ante conditionalities • Financial corrections • Rail signaling • Single European Sky • SME Guarantee Facility • Youth unemployment • Drinking water Special reports: Court's special reports in 2017 WORLD EUROPE • Honduras • Tunisia • Disaster Response • Domestic Revenue Mobilization in Africa • Migrant Registration Centers (Hotspots) • Human Trafficking • Bêkou Trust Fund • Election Observation MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Special Reports: Special Reports: • Food Waste • Natura 2000 • Certifying Bodies • Fisheries Control • Young Farmers • Rural Development • Greening the CAP Special Report: REVENUE Customs Controls Special Report: Court of Justice of the European Union FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC P INFLATION • Greek Financial Crisis Special Reports: • Single Resolution Board
Our activities 17 Special report: Tackling food waste: an opportunity for the EU to improve resource efficiency in the food supply chain Food waste is a global problem Food waste is a global problem that has increasingly become the focus of public and political debate in recent years especially given the need to feed the growing world population.
According to current estimates, around a third of the food produced for human consumption worldwide is wasted or lost, resulting in high economic and environmental costs.
The EU auditors examined the role the EU can play in tackling food waste. In particular, the Court's auditors looked at the actions taken so far and how the various EU policy instruments are working to reduce food waste.
The focus was on preventing food waste and facilitating food donation, as these two aspects are given the highest priority in the fight against food waste.
Our auditors interviewed Commission staff responsible for the policy in question, carried out desk checks and audit visits to five Member States: Italy (Lazio), the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Finland.
They visited the ministries concerned and carried out on-site visits.
They also consulted relevant stakeholders in food production, retail, research and charities. "The EU can and should do more to tackle food waste effectively," say the EU auditors The auditors concluded that while food waste could be tackled through a range of EU policies, this potential is not being realised .
Action to date remains fragmented and incoherent, and there is a lack of coordination at Commission level.
Our report identified a number of untapped opportunities and potential improvements that would not require new legislation or additional public funding. The auditors also recommended better adjusting existing policies and setting a clear policy target of reducing food waste.
The report was presented to the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as well as the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU and a number of national parliaments across the EU.
Both the European Parliament and the Council welcomed the report and endorsed the conclusions it contained.
The report also received significant media coverage, particularly social media.
Our activities 18 Special report: The Commission's role in the Greek financial crisis Greece needed support to ensure its financial stability The 2008 financial crisis was followed by an economic downturn and a debt crisis in Europe, exposing the vulnerabilities of the Greek economy.
In April 2010, Greece was no longer able to sustainably finance itself on the financial markets and therefore requested financial assistance from the euro area Member States and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Since then, Greece has participated in three economic adjustment programs administered by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF – the so-called “troika”.
The European Stability Mechanism (ESM) was also involved in the third programme.
The support, totaling €368.6 billion, was subject to political conditionality agreed jointly by the Greek authorities and the lenders.
These programs aimed to bring about a stabilization of the economic situation in Greece by covering the financial needs of the Greek economy. This should prevent the crisis from spreading to the rest of the euro area.
In return, Greece undertook to implement far-reaching structural reforms.
The EU auditors examined whether the Commission had managed the economic adjustment programs adequately. This audit is part of a series of performance audits we have carried out in recent years of the measures and reforms introduced in response to the 2008 financial crisis.
Our auditors assessed how the Commission had handled the first two programs for Greece and how the third program had been designed.
They reviewed EU financial assistance program documents, analyzed program conditions and interviewed Commission officials, staff from national authorities (such as line ministries), the Bank of Greece, business associations and business stakeholders, as well as staff from the IMF, ESM and the EU OECD. 'Economic adjustment programs for Greece: despite weaknesses, progress in reform process' say EU auditors Our auditors concluded that the economic adjustment programs for Greece had provided short-term financial stability and enabled progress in the reform process.
However, the programs in Greece resulted in only a limited recovery.
In addition, the auditors found that the Commission had no experience in managing such a process, that the terms of the programs were not sufficiently prioritized by importance nor embedded in a broader strategy for Greece, and that the macroeconomic assumptions of the programs were shaky .
This special report was presented to the Budgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament and institutional stakeholders in Greece.
The report was the subject of extensive media coverage and received the widest media coverage of any special report we published in 2017.
Our activities 19 Important events 40th anniversary of the European Court of Auditors 12 October 2017, plenary hall of the Luxembourg Congress Center The 40th anniversary of the founding of our institution was celebrated in the presence of Their Royal Highnesses the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg and Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel with an official ceremony.
The ceremony was opened by our President Klaus-Heiner Lehne. This was followed by speeches by Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia, and Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission.
An annual conference was held alongside the ceremony, bringing together the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) of the EU Member States (“EU Contact Committee”), as well as the Presidents of the SAIs of the candidate and potential candidate countries.
Left to right: Henri Grethen, Member of the Court; Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg; Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Their Royal Highnesses the Grand Duchess and Grand Duke of Luxembourg; Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament; Jean Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission
Our activities 20 Court of Justice conference on youth employment - Tackling challenges and finding solutions 10 May 2017, European Parliament, Brussels This conference followed the publication of our special report on the Youth Guarantee which, like other reports, assessed the effectiveness of the EU policies in tackling the problem of youth unemployment in the EU Member States.
During the conference, Iliana Ivanova, the rapporteur, and the auditors discussed with high-level representatives from EU institutions, employment services and young people whether EU policies are delivering results and how best to proceed in the future.
ECA conference on EU action on energy and climate change 17 October 2017, European Parliament, Brussels This conference was an integral part of our work on the landscape analysis on EU action on energy and climate change that we September 2017 and later presented at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP23) in Bonn.
The Court's conference provided a platform for stakeholders and key players in this area, from both the public and private sectors, to discuss the challenges ahead.
It was organized jointly by the Court and the European Parliamentary Research Service.
The conference was opened by Phil Wynn Owen, the rapporteur, and Jerzy Buzek, Chair of the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
The conference was attended by representatives of Member States, EU institutions, Supreme Audit Institutions, NGOs and think tanks, as well as Members of the European Parliament (MEPs), academics and our auditors.
Left to right: Phil Wynn Owen, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Jerzy Buzek, Member of the European Parliament; Anthony Teasdale, Director General of the European Parliamentary Research Service From left to right: Marianne Thyssen, Member of the Commission; Pavel Telička, Vice-President of the European Parliament; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Commission; Iliana Ivanova, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Martina Dlabajová, Member of the European Parliament
Our activities 21 ECA symposium on regulatory impact assessment 23.24. November 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg Around 100 representatives from universities, think tanks, research centres, international organizations and European, national and regional institutions took part in the two-day symposium, during which the topic of regulatory impact assessment was discussed.
Papers submitted by participants to an open call were presented and discussed during the symposium.
The symposium was chaired by ECA Member Danièle Lamarque and organized in collaboration with the scientific journal Politiques et management public.
This is critical, as the impact of our work depends largely on how those audiences benefit from our audit findings and recommendations.
It is therefore also important that we take their concerns and suggestions into account when planning our annual work programme.
European Parliament In February 2017, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne presented the ECA's work program for 2017 to the parliamentary body that coordinates the work of the European Parliament's committees (Conference of Committee Chairs).
He invited all Parliament's standing committees to propose possible audit tasks for the 2018 work programme.
Three quarters of the parliamentary committees submitted proposals, of which we have now taken around two thirds into account in our work.
Exchange of views with the Conference of Committee Chairs of the European Parliament, chaired by Cecilia Wikström
Our activities 22 In April 2017, President Lehne took part in the plenary debate of the European Parliament on the 2015 discharge procedure.
In September 2017, he presented the Court's annual report for the financial year 2016 to Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT); to the plenum in October 2017.
Parliament's political group leaders, who meet in the Conference of Presidents, invited President Lehne to their November 2017 meeting to discuss the ECA's strategy and work programme.
It is common practice for our members to present our reports and other results of our work to CONT.
During the year we presented nearly 60 presentations to this committee.
ECA Members also exchange views with other standing committees and delegations.
In 2017, we presented our reports at 23 meetings to these committees and delegations, notably the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
In addition, our members attended the meetings of the coordinators of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as they had expressed particular interest in our audit work.
In addition, Parliament invited us to present our special report on migrant registration centers (hotspots) at its conference on migration management.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, at a press conference following the meeting with Parliament's political group leaders, November 2017, Strasbourg Council During the Maltese Presidency, President Lehne met Court Member Leo Brincat ( Malta) in June 2017 in Valletta (Malta) the Maltese Minister for European Affairs Helena Dalli and Parliamentary Secretary of State for European Funds and Social Dialogue Aaron Farrugia.
In September 2017 - during the Estonian Presidency - President Lehne, Court Member Juhan Parts (Estonia) and Institutional Relations Member Rimantas Šadžius met with Estonian Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste in Tallinn.
During the year, the representatives of both Council Presidencies also paid a visit to the Court in Luxembourg.
In November 2017, President Lehne presented our annual report to the EU finance ministers at the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN) in Brussels.
At working level, our main contact is the Council's Budget Committee, which deals with all financial matters, including the discharge process.
In 2017, our auditors attended several meetings of the other preparatory bodies of the Council to present the Court's reports. This mainly affected the Council working groups on structural measures, the environment and agro-financial issues.
Malta's Finance Minister Edward Scicluna (right) pays a visit to the European Court of Auditors on March 29, 2017.
Court member Leo Brincat (left) and court president Klaus-Heiner Lehne (middle) can also be seen in the photo.
Our activities 23 Member State governments and parliaments During the year, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne met a number of high-level government officials in the EU Member States, including Polish President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw, Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa in Lisbon, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy in Madrid, and French Ministers for European Affairs Nathalie Loiseau and French Ministers for Government and Public Finances Gérald Darmanin in Paris.
He was always accompanied on his visits by one of the court members: Janusz Wojciechowski (Poland), João Figueiredo (Portugal), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain) and Danièle Lamarque (France).
Meeting with Polish President Andrzej Duda (Warsaw, February 2017) Meeting with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy (Madrid, March 2017) In 2017, our members presented the Court's Annual Report for the financial year 2016 to the national parliaments in 14 Member States: Czech Republic, Greece, Spain, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Finland and Sweden.
They also presented several special reports to the relevant national parliamentary committees.
Meeting with French Minister for Government and Public Finances Gérald Darmanin (Paris, December 2017)
Our Activities 24 Working with Supreme Audit Institutions Contact Committee of EU Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions In 2017, we hosted and chaired the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) of the 28 EU Member States.
The main topic of discussion was the role of SAIs in restoring EU citizens' trust in national and supranational state institutions.
In addition, the Court participated or contributed to the activities of the working groups on the following topics: European Banking Union, Structural Funds, Europe 2020 Strategy, Fiscal Policy Audit, VAT, Public Sector Accounting Standards in EU Member States (EPSAS) and Prevention and Combating irregularities and fraud.
Network of SAIs of candidate and potential candidate countries We also support the SAIs of candidate and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Kosovo*, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey). This support is primarily provided through a network comparable to the Contact Committee.
In 2017, nine auditors from SAIs in the network participated in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to several meetings and activities of this network. This included addressing issues such as combating fraud and corruption, as well as hosting workshops on financial and compliance audits.
We also participated in a parallel public procurement performance audit led by the SAI of Sweden.
The purpose of this meeting was to adopt a work program for 2018 and beyond. * This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the International Court of Justice Opinion on Kosovo's Declaration of Independence.
Discussions between the representatives of the EU Contact Committee in the conference room of the European Court of Auditors EU Contact Committee meeting, 12-13.
Our Activities 25 INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2017, we continued our active involvement and involvement in the activities of INTOSAI, particularly in our capacity as Vice-Chair of the Professional Standards Committee and as a member of the Financial Audit and Accounting Subcommittee of the Compliance Audit Subcommittee and Performance Audit Subcommittee.
In addition, we actively participated in the activities of other working bodies of INTOSAI and working bodies of EUROSAI.
Our mandate as a member of the EURO-SAI Governing Board ended with the X EUROSAI Congress in May 2017. • INTOSAI – International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions • EUROSAI – European Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions EUROSAI Working Group “Environmental Audit”, October 2017, European Court of Auditors , Luxembourg
Our management 26 The College of ECA Members The tenure of ECA Members is six years; Reappointment is permitted.
The members carry out their activities in full independence for the general good of the EU.
When they take office, they take a corresponding oath before the Court of Justice of the European Union.
The College has 28 members, one from each Member State.
The individual members are appointed by the Council of the EU after consultation of the European Parliament according to the proposals of the respective national government.
In 2017, the Council appointed two new members: • Juhan Parts (Estonia), who took office on 1 January 2017; • Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary), who took office on 1 September 2017.
President The members elect a President from among themselves for a period of three years; Re-election is permitted.
The President's role is that of primus inter pares ("first among equals").
In addition to his other responsibilities, the President oversees the performance of the Court's work and represents it externally.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany) was elected President.
Audit Chambers and Committees Members are assigned to one of the Court's five Audit Chambers. The chambers accept audit reports, opinions and other analysis-based publications.
The chambers are governed by a dean who is elected by the members from among themselves.
Each member is responsible for their specific auditing tasks.
The members are supported by their cabinet.
As of December 2017, the five Audit Chambers were led by the following Dean: Phil Wynn Owen (UK), Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria), Karel Pinxten (Belgium), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain) and Lazaros S. Lazarou (Cyprus).
Danièle Lamarque (France) chaired the Audit Quality Control Committee.
Rimantas Šadžius (Lithuania) was responsible for coordinating the Court's interinstitutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues are taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President.
The members of the Court of Auditors held 21 college meetings in 2017.
Photo: 7 September 2017 quorum meeting
Our Management 27 European Court of Auditors organization chart (as at 31 December 2017) President Chamber I Sustainable use of natural resources Phil WYNN OWEN United Kingdom Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Janusz WOJCIECHOWSKI Poland Samo JEREB Slovenia João FIGUEIREDO Portugal Klaus-Heiner LEHNE Germany Chamber II Investments for cohesion, Growth and Integration Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Ladislav BALKO Slovakia George PUFAN Romania Oskar HERICS Austria Chamber III External Policies, Security and Justice Karel PINXTEN Belgium Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Ville ITÄLÄ Finland Bettina JAKOBSEN Denmark Juhan PARTS Estonia Chamber IV Market Regulation and Competitive Economy Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Neven MATES Croatia Alex BRENNINKMEIJER Netherlands Rimantas ŠADŽIUS Lithuania Ildikó GÁLL-PELCZ Hungary Chamber V Funding and Administration of the Union Lazaros S. LAZAROU Cyprus Pietro RUSSO Italy Jan GRE GOR Czech Republic Mihails KOZLOVS Latvia Leo BRINCAT Malta Member of Audit Quality Control Committee Danièle LAMARQUE France Doyen Doyen Doyen Doyen Doyen
Our Management 28 Strategy The next three years will be a crucial period for the European Union, in which essential decisions will have to be made.
We recognize that EU citizens need access to clear and reliable information in order for the EU to be successful in tackling the challenges it faces.
Citizens must be able to see that the EU acts with integrity, upholds the rule of law, uses taxpayers' money wisely, has clear goals and delivers the results it promised.
As the EU's external auditor, we can make a contribution to this.
Our strategy for 2018-2020: building trust through external audit In July 2017, we published our strategy for the period 2018-2020, in which we set out four strategic objectives: • Communicate clearly to our stakeholders; • more focus on the performance aspects of EU action; • Improving the added value of the Statement of Assurance; • Alignment of our overall organization to our products.
Because at the end of the day, the EU isn't about numbers, it's about people. By exercising external financial control, the Court can show what works and what doesn't about the EU's spending and activities, it can help EU citizens answer the question whether the EU institutions provide them with results and support them, thereby helping to increase trust in the EU.
In this sense, the Court's audits must also address what worries European citizens, its ultimate ultimate target group.
The strategy for 2018-2020 identifies five priority areas for the Court's work in the coming years.
Sustainable management of natural resources and combating climate change Investing for cohesion, growth and inclusion Challenges related to migration, security and global sustainable development A functioning internal market and a stable monetary union Financing and managing the Union in an accountable and efficient manner
Our management 29 In the course of developing our strategy, we placed great emphasis on internal and external consultation.
We discussed the strategy with our staff and reached out to MEPs, EU Member State representatives, the European Commission, other Supreme Audit Institutions and non-institutional stakeholders such as academics, think tanks, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and private sector auditors.
The Court's strategy for 2018-2020 is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Work Planning In January 2017, we decided to introduce new work planning procedures, which we applied for the first time to our 2018 Annual Work Program published in October last year.
The main changes in terms of our work planning: • Developing a list of audit tasks for the whole Court; • centralized process for the selection of test ideas, possible test tasks and final test proposals; • more flexible allocation of resources to and distribution of resources between the individual examination chambers, taking into account the workload; • Extension of the product range to include examination tasks, which result in analysis-based publications; • Identifying high-priority audit tasks for which shorter deadlines apply.
We have also agreed with the European Parliament's Conference of Committee Chairs a procedure under which all Parliament's standing committees can propose potential audit topics to the Court.
The Court's work program for 2018 is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Performance measurement During the period 2013-2017, we used seven Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform management about the progress made towards our goals, to support the decision-making process and to provide our stakeholders with information about our performance give.
The indicators served to measure key parameters relating to the quality and impact of our work, with particular consideration being given to the point of view of important addressees and the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of resources.
A revised set of performance indicators will be introduced in 2018, valid for the period 2018-2020.
Quality and impact of our work We assessed the quality and impact of our reports through user judgments and peer reviews. Another evaluation criterion was the follow-up to our recommendations to improve EU financial management.
Our management 30 Stakeholders' assessment We asked our key institutional stakeholders and peers – the European Parliament's Budgetary Control and Budgetary Control Committees, the Council's Budget Committee, the main auditees at the Commission and the European Agencies, and the Presidents of the EU SAIs – to express our evaluate reports.
Similar to previous years, the vast majority of respondents rated the relevance and impact of our reports in 2017 as “high” or “very high”.
Expert reviews Each year, independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of our reports to assess their quality.
In 2017, the Reviewers assessed six special reports* and the annual reports for the financial year 2016.
They rated the quality of various aspects of the reports using a four-point scale from “seriously impaired” (1) to “high” (4).
The results have changed only slightly in recent years, with the quality of our reports being rated as "satisfactory". * In 2017, the reviewers assessed our special reports 3/2017, 4/2017, 5/2017, 10/2017, 14/2017 and 17/2017.
User assessment Pertinence of reports Likely impact of reports 2 100% very low 16 61 21 21 37 37 5 0% 20% very high 40% 60% 80% high medium low Expert reviews of Court reports 2017 2016 2015 2014 3.3 3 .2 3.3 3.1 Evaluation of quality 01234
Our management 31 Follow-up to recommendations Throughout the year, we systematically reviewed the extent to which our recommendations had been implemented by the audited entities.
By the end of 2017, this was the case for 92% of the recommendations we made in 2014.
100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Implementation of the Court's recommendations by year of submission 92% 80% 59% 53% 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Court as reflected in the media 31% 4% 65% The Court's annual reports Special reports in the General media presence We also monitor how the media reports about our work and our organ.
In 2017, 65% of the online media references to our work and institution related to special reports.
Overall, media coverage of our special reports has increased by 11% compared to 2016.
The Court's reports that received the most media coverage in 2017 were the special reports on the Greek financial crisis, migrant registration centers (hotspots), fisheries control, greening and the Natura 2000 network.
Our management 32 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 ECA special reports - average number of online articles per special report 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The increase in media coverage of our special reports in 2017 is in line with a trend observed for several years.
While fewer than 1,500 articles were published online in 2013, this number rose to almost 7,000 in 2017. The average number of articles written per special report has increased from an average of less than 30 in 2013 to almost 130 in 2017.
The greatest media coverage was our special report on the Greek financial crisis, which covered over 2,000 online and social media articles to ensure the professional competence of our employees.
Audit duration In 2017, the average time from the start of an audit task to the acceptance of a special report was 14.6 months.
This is the shortest processing time since the beginning of the 2013-2017 period.
It took us less than 13 months to produce eight reports (29%) published during the year.
It took an average of 16 months for the reports to be published, around two months less than in 2016.
This positive trend indicates that the actions taken to reach the 13-month target set in the Financial Regulation are bearing fruit.
18 17 16 15 14 13 12 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Duration from the start of the audit task to the acceptance of the report
Our management 33 Release of reports In 2017, 65% of our special reports were released according to the original plan.
The remaining reports have been postponed and will be published in 2018.
In addition, our annual reports and all special annual reports were published as planned.
Professional Development In line with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we aim to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional development per year.
In 2017, we again exceeded this target with 6.7 training days per examiner.
If the language courses required for the efficient work of our auditors in all EU Member States are also taken into account, an auditor spent an average of 8.3 training days in 2017.
For the other employees, we aim to provide an average of 16 hours (two days) of professional development (excluding language courses).
In 2017, this target was met with an average of 2.3 training days.
Average training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Target ≥ 5 days 6.2 7.0 6.7 2015 2016 2017 days
Our people 34 Staff allocation In 2017 we completed the 5% staff reduction over a five-year period (2013-2017) as set out in the December 2013 Interinstitutional Agreement on Budgetary Discipline and Sound Financial Management.
At the end of 2017, 853 officials and temporary staff were working at the Court. 548 of them worked in the examination chambers, including 118 staff in the members' cabinets.
Recruitment The Court's staff come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds.
With our recruitment policy, we follow the general principles and employment conditions of the EU institutions and promote equal opportunities at all levels.
The staff includes both civil servants and employees on temporary contracts.
Open competitions are usually organized by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
In 2017, the Court recruited 72 staff: 29 officials, 13 temporary agents, 24 contract agents (seven of whom left the Court by the end of the year) and six seconded national experts.
We also provided 71 university graduates with internships for periods of three to five months.
Court allocation of staff 137 138 123 124 49 43 Audit Services 2017 Translation Administration Services of the President Total: 853 553 548
Our People 35 Age Profile The age profile of active staff as of December 31, 2017 indicates that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
Of the Court's 68 Directors and Senior Managers, 31 (46%) are aged 55 or over.
As a result, over the next five to ten years, as these employees retire, there will be renewal in senior management positions.
Balance between men and women The Court follows an equal opportunities policy, which applies to all stages of the career of its staff.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced proportion of men and women among our employees; 43% of our auditors and directors are women.
In recent years, we have succeeded in increasing the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers from 7% in 2015 to almost 20% in 2017.
We remain committed to achieving a gender balance at all management levels.
In addition, our equal opportunities policy for the period 2018-2020 addresses issues related to age and disabilities.
More detailed information on the nationality and gender of executives is given in the table below.
Age profile 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0% 0.3% 2.3% 4.8% 0.4% 5% 7.6% 17.0% 10% 15% 20% 25% 17.1% 10.8% 21.0% 18.7% Male/female ratio by level of responsibility 34% 66% Assistants and secretaries Auditors and directors Management 57% 43% 63% 37% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
In 2017, we further expanded our range of training courses; among other things, the number of courses in the areas of e-learning and blended learning was increased.
We continued our successful series of presentations given by internal and external experts on audit developments and other issues affecting our auditors' work.
We also organized several training sessions and events where experts from other SAIs shared knowledge and best practices related to performance and financial audits.
A good example of this is the annual "Training Day" that we organized in November 2017 in cooperation with the University of Luxembourg and which was attended by over 300 employees.
We work closely with the European Commission, the European Institute of Public Administration (EIPA) and the European School of Public Administration (EUSA) to offer our staff a wide range of training courses, including both specialized courses in auditing and courses to develop personal skills, as well as work-related language courses.
We also support our staff to obtain or maintain professional qualifications and degrees in areas relevant to the Court's role and work.
In particular, we continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France), which offers the postgraduate course “Audit of public organizations and policies” and the master's course “Management of public organisations”.
We also signed a cooperation agreement with the European University Institute (EHI) in Florence (Italy).
In 2017 we established a partnership with the University of Pisa (Italy) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) to organize a summer course in the field of public auditing and accountability.
Last year, we recognized the best submission with the Court's 2016 Public Sector Audit Research Award.
37 We continued our Performance Recognition Awards program, which allows non-managerial employees to participate in specific external training.
Translation The Court's Translation, Language Services and Publishing Directorate translated and revised over 211 000 pages.
We continued our efforts to streamline translation processes and reduce associated costs.
For example, all of our translation teams now use a collaborative work platform to increase efficiency.
We strive to increasingly involve our translators in our core activities and create further synergies with our reviewers.
In particular, in 2017 the translators increasingly assisted the auditors with the linguistic preparation of the special reports and the annual report.
They also provided language support to our auditors during 38 audit visits.
Information Technology Our Directorate responsible for IT makes a key contribution to our audit processes, optimizing the flow of information using modern and secure technologies.
We made further progress in document management and were able to fully digitize the production, acceptance and publication processes.
We introduced a simplified tool to facilitate remote access via mobile devices.
We also carried out a system upgrade (installation of Windows 10 and SharePoint 2013).
In order to make even better use of interinstitutional synergies, we introduced new systems to manage audit visits, missions and training, which are currently used by other EU institutions.
Support for audit activities 38 buildings The Court currently owns three buildings ('K1', 'K2' and 'K3') and rents office space for its data recovery center in Luxembourg.
K1 The K1 building, which opened in 1988, has office space for up to 310 employees and boardrooms.
The basement floors house parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, the library and the main archive, while the entire top floor is used for technical facilities.
The K1 building was modernized in 2008 to bring it in line with national health, safety and environmental requirements.
Wherever possible, the technology in the K1 building has been adjusted to be compatible with the K2 and K3 buildings.
As a result, the three buildings form a single integrated technical unit.
K2 The K2 building opened in 2003.
Parking spaces, technical systems, storage rooms and the fitness center are located in the basement.
The entire top floor is used for technical systems.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees; they also house boardrooms, a conference room with interpreter booths, videoconference rooms, a cafeteria and a basic kitchen area.
The Court commissioned a study to assess the feasibility of establishing activity-based workspaces and upgrading the technical facilities of K2.
According to the study, the layout of the work areas could be improved and some technical installations need to be modernized.
A detailed study on this project will be carried out in 2018; work is expected to start in 2019.
As approved by the Council and the European Parliament in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds from the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation.
Security control center 2018 27 m2 2 K1 1988 26 550 m2 310 K3 K2 2003 21 500 m2 241 Year of construction Total gross area (m2) Workplaces 2012 34 500 m2 503
Support for audit activities 39 K3 The K3 building was opened in 2012.
In the basement there are parking lots, technical facilities, storage rooms, unloading areas, waste storage facilities, the printing shop, kitchens and archives.
The ground floor consists of the canteen, a cafeteria and training rooms.
There are also offices for 503 employees, boardrooms and an IT room in this building.
The sixth floor houses reception rooms, a kitchen and technical facilities.
Based on the world's leading method for assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, BREEAM), the K3 building was rated "very good".
Safety at work project In 2017, the project to improve safety at the farm and its employees continued according to plan.
The new security control center, external accreditation center and access control center for employees and visitors will be operational in 2018.
Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, we consider it our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all our activities and we strive to continuously reduce the farm's environmental impact.
In 2017 we received the Eco Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) certificate.
We now successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of the ISO standard 14001:2015.
Our goal is to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions.
In 2017, for the third year in a row, we analyzed the greenhouse gas emissions (ie our carbon footprint) caused by our operations.
The results of this study are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Accountability of the Court 40 Financial information The Court is funded from the general budget of the European Union, its budget falling under administrative expenditure.
In 2017, the Court's budget was around €141 million.
This corresponds to less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure, or around 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
The proportion of appropriations used in the 2017 budget was 98%.
Implementation of the 2017 budget FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 Final appropriations Commitments % use of appropriations Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euros) 10 - Members of the institution 11 200 10 672 95% 10 598 12 - Officials and temporary staff 102 470 101 088 99% 101 010 14 - Other staff and external services 5 716 5 464 96% 5 333 162 - Missions 3 450 3 035 88% 2 575 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 2775 2 530 91% 1901 Subtotal Title 1 125611 122 789 98% 121 417 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenses 20 – Buildings 3 546 3 541 99% 1 669 210 – Computers and telecommunications 8 148 8 148 100% 4 563 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and associated costs 999 942 94% 736 23 - Current administrative expenses 434 293 68% 221 25 - Meetings and conferences 733 664 91% 443 27 - Information and publications 1 769 1 663 94% 1 082 Subtotal tit el 2 15629 15251 98% 8714 Total 141240 138040 98% 130 131
Accountability of the Court 41 Budget 2018 The appropriations in the 2018 budget show an increase of 3.4% compared to 2017.
Budget 2018 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 162 - Missions 20 - Buildings 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and associated costs 23 - Current administrative expenses 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 12 515 11300 106 600 103 632 5 745 5 101 3 450 3 450 2 930 3 216 7 492 7 408 1 157 925 555 438 706 676 1876 BUDGET 1 Title and staff 2 200618 Members of the Organs (thousands of euros) 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenses related to members and staff of the institution 2 990 2788 Subtotal title 1 131300 126 271 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenses Subtotal title 2 14 716 14969 Total 146016 141240
Accountability of the Court 42 Risk management During the year, as required by the Financial Regulation, we reviewed the risk assessments prepared for each Directorate.
The results of these checks feed into the annual declaration of the authorizing officer by delegation included in the annual activity report and are used for the following year's risk assessments.
Where necessary, we prepared action plans for ex-ante and ex-post controls.
In September 2017, following the completion of these reviews, we strengthened internal controls and financial processes related to travel expenses and company vehicle management.
Internal and external audit Internal audit The internal audit service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It issues opinions on the quality of the management and internal control systems and reports to an Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee regularly monitors the progress of the various tasks set out in the Internal Audit Service's annual work program and ensures the independence of the Service.
In 2017, the service examined the implementation of the Court's 2013-2017 strategy, the operational structure of the Presidential Services Directorate and the management of our software licenses and products.
It also audited the implementation of the Court's risk management policy and monitored the implementation of its recommendations to ensure action plans are taking shape.
The Internal Auditor considers that in 2017 the overall governance, risk management and internal control processes in place provide reasonable assurance that the Court's objectives will be achieved.
We report annually to Parliament and the Council on the results of internal auditing activities.
External audit Our annual financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach of applying to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the entities it audits.
The auditor's report - PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à rl - on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2016 was published on 31 October 2017.
Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2017, the European Parliament granted discharge to our Secretary-General for the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2015.
This means that our financial statements for 2015 have been finally approved.
As every year, we carefully analyzed the issues raised during the discharge process regarding our audit and management responsibilities, took appropriate action and reported to the European Parliament on our follow-up.
Accountability of the Court 43 Opinions of the independent auditor - Financial year 2016 On the Court's accounts: 'In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2016, its results of operations, cash flows and of changes in net assets for the year then ended in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 (OJ
L 298 of October 26, 2012, p Regarding the Court's control procedures: "During the work steps described in this report, we did not come across any facts from which we would have to conclude that in all material respects and taking into account the assessment criteria mentioned ƒ the funds allocated to the Court were not used for the intended purposes and ƒ the established control procedures do not offer the necessary guarantee that the financial transactions were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
Declaration of the Authorizing Officer by Delegation 44 The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, in his capacity as Authorizing Officer by Delegation, hereby declare • • - - - that the information contained in this report is true and accurate and certifies with reasonable assurance that the appropriations which provided for the activities described in this report, used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, the control procedures put in place provide the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and that allegations of fraud or suspected fraud are dealt with appropriately offer, the costs and benefits of the controls are proportionate.
This security is based on the undersigned's assessment and the information available to him, e.g. B. the reports and declarations of the authorizing officers by sub-delegation, the reports of the internal auditor and the opinions of the independent auditor for previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg on March 8, 2018 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
Annex - Publications 45 in 2017: Special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications Special Reports • Special Report No. 30/2016: Effectiveness of EU support to priority sectors in Honduras • Special Report No. 33/2016: Union Civil Protection Mechanism: the coordination of actions to Tackling disasters outside the EU has been largely effective • Special Report No. 34/2016: Tackling food waste: an opportunity for the EU to improve resource efficiency in the food supply chain • Special Report No. 35/2016: Using budget support to improve the mobilization of domestic Revenues in Sub-Saharan Africa • Special Report No. 36/2016: Assessing the Arrangements for Closing the 2007-2013 Cohesion and Rural Development Programs • Special Report No. 1/2017: Natura 2000 Network: To Realize Its Full Potential further efforts needed • Special report t No 2/2017: The Commission's negotiations on the Partnership Agreements and Cohesion Policy programs 2014-2020: more targeted spending on Europe 2020 priorities but increasingly complex arrangements for measuring performance • Special Report No 3/2017: EU Aid to Tunisia • Special report 4/2017: Protecting the EU budget from irregular spending: the Commission made increasing use of preventive measures and financial corrections in the area of cohesion during the period 2007-2013 • Special report 5/2017: Youth unemployment – Do they EU measures effective? • Special report 6/2017: EU response to the refugee crisis: the "hotspot approach" • Special report 7/2017: The new role of the certification bodies in the area of CAP spending: a positive step towards the " Single Check”, but significant weaknesses remain to be addressed • Special Report No. 8/2017: EU fisheries control: more effort needed • Special Report No. 9/2017: EU support to fight human trafficking in South and South-East Asia • Special Report No. 10 /2017: EU support to young farmers should be better targeted to promote effective generational renewal • Special Report 11/2017: The EU Trust Fund Bêkou for the Central African Republic: a hopeful start despite some weaknesses • Special Report 12/2017: Implementation of the Drinking Water Directive: Better water quality and access to water have been achieved in Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania, but investment needs are n oh, still high • Special Report No. 13/2017: A uniform European rail traffic control system: will the political decision ever become a reality? • Special Report No 14/2017: Assessing the efficiency of the Court of Justice of the European Union in handling cases Annex 46 • Special Report No 15/2017: Ex ante conditionalities and the performance reserve in Cohesion Policy: innovative but not yet effective Tools • Special report 16/2017: Rural development programming: complexity needs to be reduced and focus on results strengthened • Special report 17/2017: The Commission's role in the Greek financial crisis • Special report 18/2017: More coherent European sky: a changed culture but not a single sky • Special report 19/2017: Import procedures: weaknesses in the legal framework and ineffective implementation impacting EU financial interests • Special report 20/2017: EU-funded loan guarantee instruments: positive results, but more targeted selection of recipients and coordination with national ones n programs • Special Report 21/2017: Greening: a more complex income support regime that is not yet green effective • Special Report 22/2017: Election Observation Missions - Efforts to follow up recommendations have been made but better monitoring is needed • Special Report No. 23/2017: Single Resolution Board: First steps have been taken on the challenging road to Banking Union, but there is still a long way to go Opinions • Opinion No. 1/2017 on the proposal for a revision of the Financial Regulation for the General budget of the Union • Opinion No. 2/2017 on the proposal to amend the Financial Regulation relating to the financial management of the European Schools • Opinions No. 3/2017 and No. 4/2017 on proposals to amend regulations of the Budgets Committee of the Office of the European Union for Intellectual Affairs Property • Opinion No. 5/2017 on the Proposal for a Ve Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the statute and funding of European political parties and European political foundations Analysis-based publications • Landscape review: EU action on energy and climate change • Rapid case review on the implementation of the 5% post reduction
Paid publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu). © European Union, 2018 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
EN 2018 activity report
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditors 02 Lots of other information on the European Union are available on the Internet, server Europa (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2019 Print ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-1854-2 HTML ISBN 978-92-847-1818-4 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315- 3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/092674 doi:10.2865/049466 doi:10.2865/607255 QJ-AA-19-001-DE-C QJ-AA-19-001-DE-N QJ-AA-19-001- DE-Q
1 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors on 1 May 2018
Contents Foreword by the President 5 2018 at a glance 6 Our activities 7 Strategy 7 In focus - the communication activity around our products 8 Audits 10 Work planning 12 On-site inspections 13 Publications 17 Important events 37 Relationships with institutional stakeholders 41 Cooperation with supreme audit institutions (SAI) 44 Our Management 46 The College of Members 46 Audit Chambers and Committees 49 Performance Measurement 50 Our Staff 58 Staff Allocation 58 Staff Recruitment 58 Age Profile 59 Gender Balance 60 2
Support for audit activities 62 Professional training 62 Translation 63 Information, working environment and innovation 64 Buildings 65 Reinforcement of the Court's security 67 Environmental management 67 Accountability of the Court 68 Financial information 68 Internal and external audit 70 Declaration of the authorizing officer by delegation 73 Annex - Publications in 2018: special reports, Annual reports, opinions and analysis-based products 74 3
European Court of Auditors 4 About the Court The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the external auditor of the European Union.
Established in 1977, it is one of the seven institutions of the EU.
The Court is based in Luxembourg and employs around 900 staff of all EU nationalities, made up of auditors and horizontal and administrative staff.
The Court's college consists of one member from each EU Member State.
The Court's tasks The Court checks that the EU keeps its accounts accurate, applies its financial rules correctly and that its policies and programs are delivering on their intended objectives and getting the best value for money.
Through our audit work, the Court helps improve the EU's financial management and promotes accountability and transparency.
The Court submits its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national governments and parliaments, and the general public.
Foreword by the President 5 Dear readers!
We have increased our focus on assessing the performance of EU action, communicating our messages clearly to the Court's audience and increasing the value of our work for our stakeholders.
In this activity report, we provide an overview of our work in 2018, in which we published the highest number of special reports, analyzes and opinions to date.
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances.
Our reports provide an impartial assessment of the Union's policies and programs and the quality of EU financial management, both inside and outside the European Union.
We check that EU spending is compliant and that Union policies and programs ensure best use of funds.
It will be our pleasure to work with the newly elected European Parliament and European Commission to further improve EU financial management and ensure the EU delivers results.
This report reflects our determination to continue to adapt the Court's organization to "fit for the future" and continue to help pioneer developments in public sector auditing.
2018 at a glance 44 Record number Record number of publications presented by EU legislators 43 European Parliament 44 Council Global Audit Leadership Forum organized Participated in around 45 international activities 834 staff from all Member States 50 : 50 BALANCE OF MEN AND FEMALE STAFF Annual report on the EU budget: Unqualified Opinion on EU accounts of opinions: 10, mainly on MFF 2021-2027 Impact of our work: Qualified opinion on payments 6 of publications: 35 special reports 9 analysis-based publications Record number Most of our recommendations implemented High media coverage: +17 000 articles online 4 new Members of the Court 5 Members' term extensions Addressees find our work useful and effective Social media posts viewed 11 million times
Our activities Strategy 2018 is the first year of our current strategy, which covers the period up to and including 2020.
Our strategic objectives for this three-year period are to: o improve the added value of the Statement of Assurance in view of current EU financial management, o increase focus on the performance aspects of EU action, o convey clear messages to our constituency.
In addition, we have agreed to align our overall organization even better with our products.
To implement our strategy, we have agreed an action plan for these goals to remain at the forefront of developments in public sector auditing.
At the end of 2018, all these measures were underway.
At the same time, we have already commissioned an independent peer review process to implement our strategy. The peer review is expected to be completed by the end of 2019 - see the chapter on the Court's accountability for more information.
Progress towards achieving our strategic goals 7
In focus – the communication activity relating to our products Conveying clear statements to our target group Communication is crucial if we want to achieve our strategic goal of conveying clear statements to our target group. This consists of the political bodies of the EU and the Member States responsible for the control and administration of the policies and programs of the Union, from the other supreme audit institutions, from companies and industrial organisations, from academics and last but not least from the general public – our most important stakeholder.
In 2018 we experienced how great the interest of the media is in our work.
Our special reports, in particular, met with great interest in the media and were also increasingly discussed in national and EU-oriented media channels - more information on this in the chapter on media presence.
In 2018, we published 12 Exam Previews (previously referred to as "Background Papers"). These are intended to provide a source of information for anyone interested in specific policy areas or programs for which reviews are in progress.
The information presented therein is based on the preparatory work prior to the start of an ongoing exam task.
Audit previews have contributed to the stable and balanced output of the Court's publications throughout the year: 2018 was the first year in which there was not a single month without an ECA publication.
We will continue to release these types of communication products in 2019. 8th
Journal While our findings and recommendations for improvements in EU financial management are set out in our audit reports, the Hofjournal focuses on the way we work and our staff who produce reports on different areas.
Now each issue is devoted to a different overarching theme.
In 2018, the Hofjournal targeted a range of topics such as EU pre-accession assistance, Parliamentary funding and scrutiny, and EU financial and economic governance, as well as our special reports, our work programme, our international cooperation and our forward-looking actions with the EU The aim is to "prepare the farm for the future".
A glimpse of our facility 9 downloads 2018 2017 9 314 16 357
Audits More focus on performance We carry out different types of audits across the different areas of the EU budget: o Performance audits - looking at the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes. These best use reviews focus on specific management or budget issues.
In selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court weighs up the risks to performance or compliance, the level of revenue or expenditure involved, and the political and public interest; o Financial and compliance audits - looking at the reliability of the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying financial transactions - particularly in relation to the Statement of Assurance - as well as assessments of whether systems are compliant in specific budget areas.
Our random sampling process ensures the same probability of an audit for every dollar spent.
Our audits focus on issues reflecting issues relevant to the EU, such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, challenges related to migration and global development, the internal market and banking union, and ensuring accountability and Economics of the European Union.
Based on the evidence gathered during our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the extent to which the EU's policy objectives have been achieved and on the state of the Union's budgetary and financial management.
Our audits are in line with internationally recognized auditing standards for the public sector.
The examination work is divided into the following phases: 10
PLAN Determination of the advisability and feasibility of a proposed test.
ON-SITE AUDIT WORK Multidisciplinary teams collect audit evidence on-site at the Commission's headquarters, as well as in Member States and beneficiary countries.
DRAFT 03 04 05 06 11 01 02 Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
CLARIFICATION Confirmation of the facts and findings by the audited entity.
ACCEPTANCE Acceptance of the report by the Audit Chamber or the Court College as a whole.
PUBLICATION Publication of the Special Report in 23 official languages together with the auditee's reply.
Work planning Audit priorities are aligned with key EU concerns Our work program is decided annually by the Court's members.
In January 2018, President Lehne presented the 2018 work program to the European Parliament's Conference of Committee Chairs and asked all Parliament's committees to propose potential audit topics for the 2019 work program as part of the annual stakeholder consultations.
12 In October 2018 we published the first work program prepared under the new strategy. In this 2019 work program, we detailed our audit priorities and the 36 reports and analytics-based products we plan to release this year.
These tasks covered, at least in part, 29 of the 69 proposals put forward by Parliament (42%) (2017: 32%).
Our audits will continue to look at key issues such as the sustainable use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, migration, security and global development, the single market and the EU's accountability and economy to determine whether the EU achieves what it promised.
On-site audits 3 761 days of audit work – inside and outside the EU Most of our audit work takes place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg.
At the same time, our auditors also carry out numerous audit visits to the European Commission, the main body audited by the Court; this also applies to the other EU institutions, agencies and bodies and the EU delegations, the national, regional and local authorities in the Member States and the international organizations to which EU funds flow.
We also carry out on-the-spot audits of recipients of EU funds, inside and outside the European Union.
These audits enable us to understand the audit trail and obtain direct audit evidence from the entities involved in the management of Union policies and programs and the collection or payment of EU funds, and also from the relevant beneficiaries. 13
The frequency and depth of our audit work in each Member State and recipient country depends on the type of audits we conduct.
In 2018, our auditors spent 3 761 days (2017: 3 670 days) on-site inspections in Member States and outside the EU.
Within the EU, our on-site audits are often conducted in liaison with the SAIs of the Member States visited.
In addition, our auditors spent 2,723 days (2017: 2,300 days) with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralized agencies and bodies across the EU, international organizations such as the United Nations or the OECD, and auditing firms.
To obtain and validate audit evidence, we increasingly use video conferencing and other information technologies, such as the secure exchange of data and documents. 14
Days spent on audit visits inside and outside the EU in 2018 15 Italy Germany Poland France Spain Greece Portugal Netherlands Sweden Romania Czech Republic Bulgaria Slovenia United Kingdom Lithuania Finland Denmark Estonia Austria Hungary Cyprus 40 Belgium 38 Ireland 37 Slovakia 34 Latvia 22 Croatia 12 Malta 10 Luxembourg 3 Saint Lucia 1 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1 Albania 3 Dominica 3 Switzerland 6 Canada 10 Norway 11 Algeria 14 Botswana 18 Laos 19 Tunisia 19 Kenya 20 Ethiopia 21 Lebanon 21 Niger 21 Sierra Leone 23 Guinea 25 Ukraine 25 Djibouti 26 Japan 26 United States 26 Israel 27 Mozambique 28 Barbados 30 Haiti 33 Turkey 33 231 185 176 147 136 122 101 94 87 85 83 70 65 64 56 51 355 347 335 292 third countries (489 days of testing) 6 480 days of testing EU bodies and international organizations (2 723 test days) of which: Brussels and Luxembourg (1 637 test days) EU Member States (3 272 test days) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 An Note: Deviations in the calculation of totals are due to rounding.
Fighting fraud against the EU budget Nine cases of suspected fraud We work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to fight fraud against the EU budget.
These cases are then followed up by OLAF, which decides on possible investigations and cooperates with Member State authorities where necessary.
While our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we occasionally come across instances where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activity.
In 2018, we forwarded nine such cases (2017: 13 cases) suspected of fraud to OLAF.
Additional information on the nature of suspected fraud cases sent to OLAF and related recoveries recommended by OLAF can be found in our annual reports on the general budget of the EU. 16
Publications New record: highest number of publications in 2018 Our audit reports, analysis and opinions are an important link in the EU accountability chain.
They help the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to monitor and verify that the EU is meeting its policy objectives, and to hold those responsible for the EU's budgetary management to account, particularly in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
This is primarily the European Commission, but also the other EU institutions and bodies.
National, regional and local authorities in Member States also play an important role in areas of shared management, where most of the EU budget is spent; these include agricultural and cohesion measures.
Number of special reports and analysis-based publications (2015-2018) 17 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 22 38 30 44 Year Number of publications
Among our publications: Special and annual reports o Special reports presenting the results of selected audits on specific policy or spending areas, or on budgetary or managerial issues; o Annual reports, covering mainly the results of financial and compliance audits of the European Union budget and the European Development Funds, but also covering budgetary and performance aspects; o Separately published specific annual reports on the EU Agencies, Decentralized Bodies and Joint Undertakings.
Opinions and analysis-based publications o Opinions on new or amended legal acts with a significant impact on financial management, which are either mandatory under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) or drawn up at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative; o Issue papers are descriptive and analytical documents on policy or management that focus on specific issues; o Landscape reviews are similar to issue papers, but focus on complex, broad policy areas or management issues, often from a cross-cutting perspective; o Rapid Case Reviews, which gather facts related to very well-defined specific issues or problems. If necessary, they contain an evaluation that enables a better understanding of these facts.
Finally, we present background information on future or current exam tasks in the form of exam previews - more information in the chapter on communication activity around our products.
All of the Court's publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu) and are listed at the end of this report. 18
19 6-YEAR REPORTS Annual reports: • EU budget • European Development Funds • 41 EU agencies and bodies • 8 Joint Research Undertakings • European Schools • Contingent liabilities of the SRB, Commission and Council 2018 Publications of the ECA Issue papers: NEW • Future of finance Audit previews 35 SPECIAL REPORTS Full list on page 21 Opinions: • EU Funding and Rule of Law • European Monetary Fund • European Development Fund • Protecting EU Whistleblowers • Future of the CAP • Simplifying Research Programs • Integrating Migrants • Simplifying Cohesion Policy • New Multiannual Financial Framework Landscape Analysis • Application of Union law in practice • Mobility and Transport Quick Analysis • VAT Refunds in Cohesion • Animal Welfare • Food Safety • Wind Power and Photovoltaic • Organic Food Oversight in the EU Insurance Sector • Fazili Refugee Action in Turkey • Cross-Border Healthcare • Public Consultation • Desertification • E-Commerce • Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived • Competition Rules • Reform of Own Resources • Reform of Cohesion Fund Rules • Reform of the Common Agricultural Policy • OLAF and future EPPO • Anti-Fraud Program • New Development Assistance Instrument 10 9 12 OPINIONS ANALYSIS-BASED AUDIT FORECAST PRODUCTS (previously referred to as "Background Papers")
Special reports We assess the performance of EU action in our special reports In line with our strategy for 2018-2020, we are increasingly focusing on assessing the performance of EU action to ensure that EU citizens' funds are well served be used optimally.
In 2018 we published 35 special reports (2017: 28 special reports) on the different areas of EU spending, where we addressed the challenges facing the EU, such as air pollution, the high-speed rail network, the Facility for refugees in Turkey, banking supervision and financing of non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
In these special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programs have been met, whether the results have been achieved in an effective and cost-effective manner, and whether EU funds have added value – ie whether they have achieved more than is only possible through action at national level.
We also make recommendations for financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or more cost-effectively achieving desired policy goals.
Here we will take a closer look at two of our special reports from 2018: one on high-speed rail in the EU and one on the Facility for Refugees in Turkey.
In line with the EU Financial Regulation, we aim to produce our special reports within 13 months. 20
COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND JOBS ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND TERRITORIAL COHESION 21 Special Reports: • JASPERS • Mobility of workers • Durability of projects • Public-private partnerships • Broadband deployment • Fund absorption in cohesion spending • High-speed rail • Project performance • Erasmus+ program • Simplification under Horizon 2020 • Passenger rights Court's special reports in 2018 NATURAL RESOURCES Special reports: • Renewable energy • Basic payment scheme • Simplified financing options • Air quality • Carbon capture and storage • Flood preparedness • Animal welfare • Desertification WORLD EUROPE Special reports: • EU support for Myanmar/Burma • Pre-Accession Assistance to Turkey • EU Aid to the Sahel • African Peace and Security Architecture • Facility for Refugees in Turkey • Trust Fund for Africa ADMINISTRATION Special Reports: • Better Legislation • IT systems for customs • EU buildings • NGO funding SECURITY AND CITIZENSHIP Special reports: • Countering radicalization • Chemical and biological threats FISCAL AND ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE Special reports: • Crisis management for banks (ECB) • Macroeconomic imbalances • Stability and Growth Pact • Supervision in the EU insurance sector
Special Report in Focus European high-speed rail network: not a reality but an ineffective patchwork High-speed rail transport has numerous benefits for passengers.
It is a comfortable, safe, flexible and ecologically sustainable mode of transport.
Improved connections between regions in the EU also make them more competitive and contribute to European integration by bringing people closer together.
In this way we analyzed the different connections, travel times and prices for business and private travelers.
We also examined whether the co-financed high-speed rail investments were cost-effective and effective, and well thought out and planned.
The Court concluded that the European high-speed rail network is just an inefficient patchwork of routes across Member States that are poorly connected.
There is no realistic long-term plan for connecting the different parts of the EU's existing network; High-speed lines crossing national borders are not among the priorities of individual Member States and the European Commission does not have the power to force Member States to do so.
In such circumstances, EU co-financing for high-speed rail will bring little added value.
However, there is also good news: the number of passengers using high-speed rail transport in Europe is steadily growing. There has been an increase from around 15 billion passenger kilometers in 1990 to over 124 billion in 2016.
Both institutions welcomed the report and agreed with our conclusions.
We also presented it to numerous national authorities and SAIs, as well as to researchers, industry stakeholders and the media.
The report was widely covered by media across the EU, particularly EU-oriented media and financial media, particularly in Spain and Germany.
DE – Die Zeit: Railway lines: expansion of fast train routes in the EU too expensive and too slow IT – La Repubblica: Alta velocità nell'Ue, la Corte dei Conti europea boccia la rete UK – Financial Times: Bloc criticized over high-speed rail strategy ES – El cinco days: Los auditores de la UE critican la incoherencia de los trazados del AVE
Special Report In Focus The Facility for Refugees in Turkey: Support Helpful, but Better Use of Funds Cannot Be Achieved Turkey, with almost 4 million people, has taken in more refugees than any other country in the world.
Around 3.5 million of these refugees are Syrians, most of whom live outside refugee camps.
Support under the Facility for Refugees in Turkey, worth a total of €6 billion from the EU and its Member States, covers humanitarian and non-humanitarian activities for refugees and host communities.
As part of the political agreement, Turkey was obliged to end irregular migration from Turkey to the EU.
Humanitarian projects have been able to meet the basic needs of refugees, but in some cases they have not achieved the expected best use of funds or the Facility's objective of effectively coordinating this support.
The humanitarian projects audited provided helpful support to the refugees.
For example, the Emergency Social Safety Net helped 1.3 million refugees with cash assistance.
However, half of the projects have not yet achieved the expected impacts – a lasting positive impact that can be sustained without further financial support – and nine out of ten projects had to have their duration extended.
The timely implementation of the projects managed by NGOs was hampered primarily by the difficult working environment.
to track. This was due to the Turkish authorities' refusal to provide access to the data of the eligible beneficiaries of the two cash assistance projects in our sample, totaling €1.1 billion.
We presented our report at a joint meeting attended by the Committee on Development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, and subsequently also the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
He was also introduced to the EU Council's Enlargement and Accession Countries Group and to the press.
This report attracted a lot of media interest in Germany in particular, but also in Denmark, Austria, the Benelux countries and the Mediterranean countries, as well as in the EU-oriented media.
25 DE - Der Spiegel: Court of Auditors criticizes shortcomings in EU refugee aid FR - EurActiv: La Cour des comptes plutôt satisfaite de l'aide aux réfugiés en Turquie ES - Euronews: Turquía debe rendir cuentas por la gestión de los refugiados UK - EU Observer: EU unable to fully trace €1 bn spent on refugees in Turkey
Annual reports Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2017 Signed-off accounts, unqualified opinion on revenue, qualified opinion on expenditure Each year we audit the revenue and expenditure of the EU budget and examine whether the accounts are reliable and the revenue and expenditure operations are in line with financial regulations at EU and Member State level.
In addition, we assess all major areas of the EU budget specifically - based on the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020 - and provide information on budgetary and financial management as well as performance-related information.
We also analyze why errors occurred, make recommendations for possible improvements and examine whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been put into practice.
As part of our latest annual report on the EU budget covering the financial year 2017, our auditors examined a sample of around 700 payments to beneficiaries, made across the different spending areas of the EU budget, totaling €100 billion.
This means that we analyzed around 700 different cases where EU funds had been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research organisations, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
26 Key figures EU spending 2017 137.4 billion euros Audited amount 100.2 billion euros (703 transactions) Accounting Fair and reasonable - reliability confirmed Revenue Legal and regular - unqualified opinion Expenditure Legal and regular other than reimbursement of expenses - restricted (and no failed ) Audit Opinion
Estimated error rates continue downward trend This extensive work forms the basis of our Statement of Assurance, which we are required to present to the European Parliament and the Council, in accordance with our mandate as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
As in previous years, the Court gave an unqualified opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the EU's revenue.
In addition, for the second year in a row, we were able to provide a qualified (and no bad) opinion on EU spending.
A significant part of the expenditure audited in 2017 was free from a material level of error.
In addition, the estimated error rate for 2017 payments was 2.4%, down from 3.1% in 2016 and 3.8% in 2015.
Launch of the discharge procedure by Parliament The publication of our annual report marks the start of the discharge procedure carried out by the European Parliament, in which the EU's legislative and budgetary authority decides - on the recommendation of the Council - whether the EU budget should be managed by the Commission and other facilities was done satisfactorily.
We presented our annual report to the Budgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament on 4 October, coinciding with its publication, and subsequently to the plenary of the European Parliament and the ECOFIN Council, as well as the national parliaments and authorities of 14 Member States.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Mr Lazarou, Member of the Court, presenting our annual report to the plenary session of the European Parliament in Strasbourg on November 28, 2018
For cohesion spending, we assessed the 2014-2020 control and assurance framework and the reliability of the information provided by the Commission to demonstrate regularity.
This represented a first step towards the potential design of the statement of assurance as an attestation-oriented test.
In general, with the changed approach and the move to an attestation-oriented audit, we intend to take greater account of the different levels of internal control at the European Commission and the Member State authorities responsible for managing EU spending.
This will show more clearly where weaknesses remain, both in the European Commission and in the Member States, allowing us to help promote accountability and further improve EU financial management.
This approach is only ever applied when the relevant requirements set out in international auditing standards are met. 29
Annual report on the European Development Funds Negative opinion on payments Under the European Development Funds (EDFs), the European Union provides support for development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and overseas countries and territories.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank.
Key data on our audit opinions in relation to the EDFs are set out below.
Special annual reports Agencies and other bodies Unqualified opinion for all but one EU agency The EU agencies are based across Europe and employ around 11 000 people.
The 2017 budget for all agencies combined – with the exception of the Single Resolution Board (SRB) – was €3.5 billion; this corresponds to around 2.7% of the total EU budget .
The SRB's 2017 budget, funded by contributions from credit institutions, was €6.6 billion.
The European Medicines Agency ( EMA) in London moving to Amsterdam New approach: a single report covering all 41 EU agencies In 2018 we decided to present the results of our audit of the accounts in EU agencies in a more user-friendly format to introduce.
While we continued to provide individual Statements of Assurance for each agency, we published a single annual report on all agencies, including a summary document entitled "Summary Information on the EU Agencies Audit " .
As every year, we have also published our annual reports on the European Schools and the contingent liabilities of the SRB, the Commission and the Council. 31
Seats of agencies in Member States 32 * Following the UK's decision to withdraw from the EU, the Council decided to relocate the EMA and EBA to Amsterdam and Paris respectively in 2019.
Joint Undertakings Unqualified opinion on all European Research Joint Undertakings except one Joint Undertakings are the EU's public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States that play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is the public sector member of the Joint Undertakings and represents the EU.
The private members include various partners from industry and research.
One of the main objectives of the JUs is to attract contributions from members in the private industry and research sectors; that is their added value.
33 Main Conclusions Overall, our audit of the agencies for the year ended 31 December 2017 confirmed the positive results of previous years.
We issued o unqualified audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts for all agencies; o unqualified opinions on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts of all agencies; o unqualified opinions on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts of all agencies, with the exception of a negative opinion for the European Asylum Support Office, which identified a number of issues.
Main conclusions o We have signed off the accounts of all EU JUs for the financial year 2017 and confirmed their reliability. o Seven JUs received unqualified audit opinions on their revenue and payment operations; the 'Electronic Components and Systems for European Leadership' JU received a qualified audit opinion as the auditors identified problems which in some cases hampered effective internal control.
Opinions We also help improve EU fiscal governance by publishing opinions on Commission proposals for new or amended legislation.
If these are legal acts with a significant financial impact, EU law requires the Court's opinions.
These are primarily used by the legislative authority – the European Parliament and the Council – in their work.
Opinions can also be launched at the request of other institutions or on the Court's own initiative.
In 2018 we published ten opinions – the highest number ever – on different areas of EU governance.
On the one hand, these mainly concerned the Commission's legislative proposals for the new MFF, such as the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the effectiveness of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and its cooperation with the future European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO), on the other hand the linkage of EU funding with respect for the rule of law and protection of whistleblowers.
In Focus - Opinion on CAP reform Greener and more strictly performance-based CAP, more accountable, needed When the European Commission published its legislative proposal for the new CAP post-2020, it highlighted that environmental and climate targets are a very would be given high priority.
However, in our opinion on the reform of the CAP, we pointed out that many of the proposed policy options differed only slightly from the current CAP regime.
In particular, most of the budget will continue to be direct payments to farmers based on the number of hectares owned or used.
We also found that this instrument is not the most economical way to support a decent income and that it fails to address many environmental concerns.
Furthermore, the Commission's assessment of the contribution of the CAP to the EU's climate protection goals seemed unrealistic to us; therefore, the Court recommends more environmentally friendly and consistently performance-based plans for the next CAP, which should also put a stronger focus on accountability. 34
In accordance with the procedure we use in our reports, this opinion has been presented to the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council, stakeholders from the environment and agriculture sectors and the press. 35
Analysis-based publications: Landscape reviews, issue papers and rapid case reviews Analytical overview of publicly available information and the Court's own work Landscape reviews In 2018 we produced two landscape reviews.
In the first, we looked at the application of Union law in practice and set out to strengthen the Commission's oversight of the application of Union law by the Member States.
In the second landscape analysis, we dealt with mobility and transport and rated them as cornerstones of European integration.
However, we raised concerns about the investment backlog, as the modernization of the EU transport network is slowed down by falling investments in transport infrastructure.
Issue papers We published a total of six issue papers in 2018: five on the Commission's proposals for the future MFF and one on the integration of migrants in the EU.
In particular, the Court's observations on the MFF focused on the proposed mechanism for prioritizing EU spending, the flexibility of the EU budget, the focus on performance and administrative simplification, and the arrangements for accountability and audit.
While welcoming the Commission's efforts to modernize the EU budget for post-2020, we identified several potential risks, identified a number of weaknesses and proposed concrete improvements.
We pointed out that effective parliamentary scrutiny requires robust accountability arrangements and that the Court should, in principle, be designated as the external auditor for all bodies created by the EU.
Rapid case reviews In the only rapid case review we presented on Cohesion in 2018, we found that value added tax (VAT) reimbursement is prone to errors and does not always represent an optimal use of EU funds.
We considered that VAT refunds to public authorities on EU co-financed spending should no longer be possible in the post-2020 period. 36
Financial Instruments Conference In January 2018, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania, we organized a joint high-level conference on EU financial instruments in Vilnius.
The event provided an opportunity for high-level experts from EU and Lithuanian institutions, practitioners and other public and private stakeholders to exchange their views and ideas.
Symposium on the public financing of parliaments In March 2018, we hosted a two-day international symposium on the public financing of parliaments in Europe at our premises, to discuss their autonomy and to analyze the budgetary systems of the EU Member States.
Global Audit Leadership Forum In April 2018, we hosted the fifth session of the Global Audit Leadership Forum, which brought together the Presidents and representatives of some twenty SAIs from around the world.
The focus was primarily on the practice and limits of performance auditing in a political context, as well as the challenges and opportunities in communicating audit findings in the digital age. 37
38 Fifth meeting of the Global Audit Leadership Forum in April 2018, bringing together the Presidents of around twenty SAIs from around the world at the European Court of Auditors Europe Day – EU Open Days In May 2018 we participated in the Europe Day events in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg.
At the information stands, visitors were able to learn from our examiners about our role and work, as well as learn first-hand how examinations are conducted.
We will continue to organize open days at the European Court of Auditors and participate in public events to engage with citizens.
Good Public Administration Symposium In September 2018, we participated in a symposium on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and public governance entitled "Good Public Administration and Benefits for Citizens – The Role of Parliamentary Control Bodies" organized by the Austrian Court of Auditors, organized by the INTOSAI Secretariat and the Austrian Ombudsman Board.
Conference on the application of Union law In September 2018, we hosted a conference on the application of Union law, which discussed the need for accountability, transparency and audit, following our landscape analysis on the application of Union law in practice.
This event took place at the Committee of the Regions in Brussels.
Conference on e-commerce and related taxation In October 2018 we hosted a conference on e-commerce and the challenges of taxation in the digital age.
Speakers and panellists discussed the risks of the current taxation model for VAT in e-commerce and proposed alternative taxation models aimed at using modern technology such as blockchain.
European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) conference In November 2018, we attended the eighth annual EIOPA conference in Frankfurt.
The conference brought together more than 400 people from the financial services industry, academia, consumer organisations, the media, international organisations, EU institutions and national authorities.
We presented our audit work on prudential supervision and financial stability in the European insurance sector, the subject of the 2018 EIOPA special report. 39
COP24 In December 2018, we took part in the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP24) in Katowice.
We presented our audit work on air quality and its impact on climate change and vice versa, and discussed the challenges of desertification and land degradation in the EU - both of which were covered in special reports we published in 2018.
ECA Member Janusz Wojciechowski presenting our special report on air quality in Katowice in December 2018 School project day Throughout the year, ECA officials participated in the school project day organized by the EU institutions.
17 of our staff visited their secondary schools in seven Member States, educating students about the EU, the role of our institution and opportunities to study in the EU and work in the EU institutions. 40
Relations with institutional stakeholders The impact of our work depends on how our institutional stakeholders benefit from it We work closely with the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments, as the impact of our work depends to a large extent on which Take advantage of these facilities from our exam results and recommendations.
European Parliament The number of reports discussed in Parliamentary committees is a record The Court's Members and audit teams are regularly asked to present their findings and recommendations to the Committee on Budgetary Control, other committees of the European Parliament and other bodies.
During 2018, we presented 33 special reports, four opinions and six analysis-based publications to Parliament.
In total, we attended 74 meetings with the Budgetary Control Committee (2017: 60) and 38 meetings with 13 other Parliament committees and working groups, as well as with political groups in Parliament.
The joint annual meeting of ECA representatives with Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control took place in February 2018.
In April 2018, President Lehne took part in the plenary debate of the European Parliament on the 2016 discharge procedure.
In October 2018, he presented the ECA's annual report for the financial year 2017 to Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and the plenary. 41
In addition, 44 presentations were made to other relevant Council preparatory bodies (2017: 27).
During the year, we presented a total of 37 special reports, four opinions and three analysis-based publications to the Council (2017: 27).
In January 2018, during the Bulgarian Presidency, President Lehne met the Bulgarian Deputy Finance Minister to discuss key audit findings related to the 2016 discharge process.
In March 2018, President Lehne and Neven Mates, the ECA Member responsible for our special report on macroeconomic imbalances, presented the report to EU finance ministers during the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN) meeting.
Thus, for the first time, a special report was presented to the EU finance ministers of the ECOFIN Council.
President Lehne also presented our 2017 Annual Report at the ECOFIN meeting in November, during the Austrian Presidency.
Before the meeting, President Lehne met the Austrian Federal Minister of Finance, in his capacity as Chair of the Economy and Finance Council, and the Minister of Public Finance of Romania - this Member State holds the Council Presidency at the beginning of 2019 - to discuss with them our Annual Report 2017 and the related discharge procedure and to update them on other relevant Court activities.
First presentation of a special report before ECOFIN 42
Member State governments and parliaments ECA President meets senior government officials in five Member States During the year, President Lehne visited and met senior government officials in a number of EU Member States – Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Romania.
These visits were often combined with attendance at an official state event or high-level conference.
Our members also presented the 2017 annual report to the national parliaments and/or other national authorities of 14 Member States.
In addition, we took the additional opportunity to present some of our special reports to the relevant parliamentary committees of national parliaments.
Delegations of representatives from national parliaments occasionally visit the Court and we continue to explore ways to further deepen our cooperation with national parliaments.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and George Pufan, Member of the Court, during a meeting with Klaus Iohannis, President of Romania, in Bucharest, October 2018 43
Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) SAIs of the EU Member States Actively collaborating with the SAIs of the EU: joint call to address weaknesses in the accountability and audit arrangements for EU banking supervision Our cooperation with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU -Member States takes place primarily within the framework of the Contact Committee of Presidents of EU SAIs.
In October 2018, we actively participated in the annual meeting of the Contact Committee hosted by the SAI of Croatia under its own chairmanship.
Discussions focused on interacting with EU citizens and making SAIs accessible to the public.
Court President Klaus-Heiner Lehne addresses the Presidents of the EU SAIs at the annual Contact Committee meeting in Dubrovnik, Croatia, October 2018. Together with the Presidents of the SAIs of the 28 Member States, we appealed to the national governments and parliaments as well as to the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission to address a number of weaknesses in the accountability and audit arrangements for EU banking supervision.
We have also been involved and participated in the activities of several Contact Committee working bodies, including the VAT Working Group, the Fiscal Policy Audit Network, the Europe 2020 Strategy Audit Network and the European Banking Union Task Force, and other activities in the areas of public sector financial reporting and public procurement auditing.
We also coordinated the production of the Contact Committee's first audit compendium (Youth Unemployment and Vocational Integration of Young People), based on audit reports prepared by 14 EU SAIs between 2013 and 2017.
With the publication of the Examination Compendium, the Contact Committee is introducing a new product 44
INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2018, we continued our active participation and contribution to the activities of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), particularly in our capacity as Vice-Chair of the Committee on Professional Standards (since December 2016) and as a member of the Subcommittee on Financial and Accounting Audit, Compliance Audit Subcommittee and Performance Audit Subcommittee.
We also actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI working bodies, notably the Subcommittee on Peer Reviews, the Working Group on Environmental Auditing, the Working Group on Financial Modernization and Regulatory Reform, and the Taskforce on Professionalizing Auditors.
We also actively participated in the activities of the European Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), the European regional group of INTOSAI, especially in the working group "Environmental Audit", the working group "IT Audit", the task force "Audit & Ethics" as well as at several workshops and seminars.
The SAIs of the candidate and potential candidate countries of the EU We also support the SAIs of the candidate and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo1, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey). This support is primarily provided through a network similar to the Contact Committee and through our sponsorship of activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2018, seven auditors from SAIs in the network participated in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to the meetings and activities of this network. This included addressing issues such as financial and IT audits.
Our Management The College of Members of the Court The term of office of the Members of the Court is six years, renewable.
The college consists of one member from each Member State.
The ECA has no role in the nomination and appointment of members.
In 2018 the Council appointed four new Court members: o Eva Lindström (Sweden), Tony Murphy (Ireland) and Hannu Takkula (Finland) on 1 March 2018 and Annemie Turtelboom (Belgium) on 1 May 2018.
In addition, the terms of office of five incumbent members have been extended by the Council: o Pietro Russo (Italy), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain), Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) and João Figueiredo (Portugal) until 29 February 2024 and Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria) until December 31, 2024.
In 2018, the College of ECA Members met 18 times (2017: 21).
46 Meeting of the ECA's College of Members on 28 February 2019 in Luxembourg
The President's role is that of Primus inter Pares.
His responsibilities include the board's strategy, planning and performance management, communications and media relations, legal affairs and internal audit.
He also represents the Court in all of its external relations.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the ECA, addressing the annual meeting of the College of ECA Members and the College of Commissioners in Luxembourg in February 2018 47
The President and Members 48
Audit Chambers and Committees Members are assigned to one of the Court's five Audit Chambers.
They are under the direction of a Dean or Dean, elected by the members from among themselves.
Each member is responsible for its specific tasks and is supported by its cabinet.
The examination work is carried out by professional examiners who work for the directorates of the examination chambers.
As of December 2018, the five Examination Chambers were led by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Milionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Neven Mates and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Danièle Lamarque chaired the Quality Control Committee, Oscar Herics chaired our Ethics Committee and Samo Jereb our Audit Committee, while Rimantas Šadžius was the member responsible for institutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues are taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President.
The European Court of Auditors has ten Directorates for all its areas of work, five of which are attached to the Audit Chambers, one to Audit Quality Control, another to the President and three to the Secretary General.
Secretary General and Directors Peter WELCH Director CHAMBER 1 Gerhard ROSS Director CHAMBER 2 Philippe FROIDURE Director CHAMBER 3 Ioanna METAXOPOULOU Director CHAMBER 4 Mariusz POMIENSKI Director CHAMBER 5 Martin WEBER Director SERVICES OF THE PRESIDENT Geoffrey SIMPSON Director Committee for Audit Quality Control Gailė DAGILIENĖ Director Translation, Language Services and Publishing Zacharias KOLIAS Director Human Resources, Finance and General Services Magdalena CORDERO VALDAVIDA Director Information, Work Environment and Innovation Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary General 49
Performance measurement Our new KPIs as part of the 2018-2020 Strategy Since 2008, we have been using Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform management of progress towards our goals, to support the decision-making process and to inform our stakeholders about our performance.
Not only have we set our strategy for 2018-2020, we have also adjusted our KPIs for this period.
Thus, 2018 is the first year in which we can report on these indicators.
These five KPIs provide a high-level view of how we as an organization do our work in terms of dissemination, impact and perception. o KPI 1 - Implementation of our recommendations o KPI 2 - Stakeholders" feedback on our work o KPI 3 - Our appearances in the European Parliament, Council and national parliaments ( Court appearances in the European Parliament, Council and national parliaments) o KPI 4 - Number of special reports (and similar products) published o KPI 5 - Our presence in the media court) 50
51 Number of Special Reports and Related Products in 2018 We monitor the number and timing of reports published throughout the year.
This provides an indication of the accuracy of our planning.
Of the 47 reports planned for 2018, 44 were published: 35 special reports, six issue papers, two landscape analyzes and one rapid analysis.
In addition to the selected audits foreseen in our work programme, we issued ten opinions.
Special reports and related products 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 44 30 2017 2018 Our appearances in the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments Most of our audit reports are presented to the relevant committee of the European Parliament and the Council of the EU .
In addition, most members of the Court present our annual reports to the national parliament of their Member State.
In 2018, ECA representatives addressed the European Parliament 133 times (2017: 91), 65 times in the Council (2017: 47) and 50 times before national parliaments (2017: 19).
This represents a significant increase compared to 2017.
ECA appearances in 2018: European Parliament, Council and national Parliaments 52 European Parliament 91 Council of the EU 47 133 65 50 National Parliaments 19 2017 2018 Media exposure Number of online articles and social media posts almost tripled We have been in closer contact since 2018 to the media and non-institutional stakeholders and are much more active on social media.
We issued o 76 press releases in 23 EU languages (2017: 57) and o held 20 press briefings in Brussels (2017: 16), including press briefings for the annual report, including both sector and Member State briefings .
We also received journalists from Brussels and Member States and offered several briefings on selected reports to industry stakeholders, NGOs and think tanks.
53 Visits to Luxembourg by journalists from Member States in November 2018 We monitor media coverage of our work and our institution, which can vary significantly depending on the topic and complexity of a report.
At the same time, we have to take into account that external factors can strongly influence media interest in our publications.
For example, if the date of publication coincides with an important event or political development, public interest in the topic in question can increase significantly.
The total number of media reports, including those on social media, has almost tripled: while there were around 15,500 online articles and social media posts in 2017, in 2018 the number increased to more than 44,000.
Social media posts made by the Court's official accounts in relation to our publications were viewed around 11 million times in 2018, almost 18 times more than in 2017.
Special reports are clearly our flagship product in terms of media coverage. When it comes to communication and media coverage, special reports have clearly become our flagship product. Twelve of the Court's top 15 publications in 2018 were special reports.
There were more than 11,000 online articles related to our special reports that year, more than doubling the number from 2017.
This compares to a total of 1,500 online articles in 2013, the year we started tracking media coverage.
At the same time, compared to 2017, there was a 60% increase in the average number of media reports per special report.
This means that our media presence has increased not only due to a higher number of reports, but also due to a greater interest in our publications.
Media coverage of annual reports, special reports and the ECA in general 54 Online articles Social media Total Online articles Social media Total Online articles Social media Total 6 297 0 10 000 20 000 30 000 40 000 960 207 952 2 425 1 912 2 632 4 762 9 159 1 535 The Special Report on Europe's high-speed rail network had the greatest impact - with over 4 400 online and social media articles 11 682 20 841 7752 11198 13 535 2018 18 152 21 287 29 350 2017 Most media coverage in 2018 concerned our special reports on the European high-speed rail network, the efficiency of the European Central Bank's administration in the field of crisis management for banks and the facility for refugees in Turkey. The Court in General Special Reports Annual Reports
The farm has five social media accounts: * This number represents the number of times our posts have been viewed.
Throughout the year, we saw an exponential increase in our presence and engagement on social media – particularly on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn – which have now become an essential part of our communication activities and allow us to engage directly with citizens to kick.
The number of our followers or subscribers and the number of our impressions, which shows how often our posted articles were viewed, have both increased.
55 followers/subscribers 2018 Increase over 2017 Number of impressions* 7,674 31% 3,419,137 10,080 23% 256,268 4,800 83% 9,590 234,869 27% 117,800 1,134,149% n.a
Impact and perception of our work Our reports – appropriate and effective We evaluate the impact and perception of our work based on user reviews. Another evaluation criterion is the follow-up to our recommendations to improve EU financial management.
In early 2018, we started asking our stakeholders (from the European Parliament, Council and Commission, EU agencies, Member State permanent representations, Member State public bodies, national SAIs, NGOs, academia, media, etc.) for feedback to ask about the usefulness and likely impact of our reports.
This feedback concerns selected special reports and analyzes as well as the Court's annual reports and is collected through anonymous electronic surveys from those who have previously received a copy of these reports.
Through this survey, stakeholders can also provide qualitative feedback on reports and make general suggestions about the Court's work.
Overall, 87% of respondents said our reports were useful for their work and 78% said they were effective.
56 Pertinence of reports 15 42 30 12 1 Likely impact of reports 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Very high High Medium Low Very low 7 30 41 18 4
Follow-up to our recommendations Most of our recommendations have been implemented Since 2018, we have used a follow-up by our auditors as the basis for this indicator, instead of the European Commission's management statement.
For 2018, we analyzed the recommendations made in our special reports published in 2014 and the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 74% of the recommendations we made in our 2014 annual report and 94% of the recommendations in our special reports published in 2014 have been fully, largely or partially implemented.
Implementation of the Court's recommendations by year of issue 57 Implementation of the Court's recommendations in the 2014 annual report 10% 6% 10% 32% 32% 10% Implementation of the Court's recommendations following performance audits in 2014 6% 19% 17% 58 % Fully implemented Largely implemented Partially implemented Insufficient evidence Not applicable Not implemented
Our staff Staff allocation At the end of 2018, the European Court of Auditors employed 834 officials and temporary agents.
The Court's establishment plan included 853 permanent and temporary posts – including 541 in the audit chambers – including 112 posts in Members' cabinets.
Areas of activity of our staff: Audit Services, Translation, Administration and Presidential Services 58 Audit Services 541 Translation Administration Presidential Services 135 Total 853 129 48 In addition, 76 contract staff and 15 seconded national experts were employed at the Court at the end of the year.
Recruitment The Court's staff come from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds.
With our recruitment policy, we follow the general principles and employment conditions of the EU institutions and promote equal opportunities at all levels.
In 2018, the Court recruited 79 staff: 15 officials, 32 temporary agents, 22 contract agents and 10 seconded national experts.
We also provided 60 university graduates with internships for periods of three to five months.
Age Profile The age profile of employees on active duty as of December 31, 2018 indicates that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
Thirty of the Court's 64 directors and senior managers (47%) are aged 55 or over.
Age profile 59 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0% ˂1% 2% 4% ˂1% 5% 10% 15% 25 % 7% 12% 16% 18% 20% 23% 18% Note: Deviations in the calculation of the totals are due to rounding.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced proportion of women and men among our employees; 45% of our auditors and directors are women.
Gender ratio by level of responsibility 60 34% 66% 55% 45% 62% 38% Assistants and secretaries Auditors and directors Management 0% 20% 40% 60% Male 80% 100% Female We remain committed to to achieve a balanced ratio of women and men at all management levels.
In recent years, for example, we have succeeded in increasing the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers, which was 7% at the end of 2015, to almost 24% at the end of 2018.
Our equal opportunities policy for 2018-2020 also addresses issues related to age and disability.
Managers by nationality and gender 61
Audit support Professional development Education: how we prepare our staff and the Court for the future In line with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we aim to give each auditor an average of 40 hours (five days) per year to provide professional training.
In 2018, we again exceeded this target with 6.9 training days per examiner.
We have continued to expand the range of training we offer to employees both in and outside of the audit space and to support auditors in achieving various certifications.
We continued our successful series of presentations given by internal and external experts on audit developments and other issues affecting our auditors' work.
We continued our Performance Recognition Awards program, which allows non-managerial employees to participate in specific external training.
Average number of training days per year 7.0 6.7 6.9 Target ≥ 2 days 2016 2017 Per examiner 2018 4.0 2016 2.3 3.1 2017 2018 Target ≥ 5 days Per non-examiner 62 days
Successful cooperation with educational institutions We have signed a partnership agreement with the College of Europe (Bruges, Belgium) for cooperation in a number of areas , including training, internships and the drafting of reports.
We have also entered into cooperation agreements with the European Institute of Public Administration and other organizations, which enable our employees to attend training courses organized by these institutions.
We continued and expanded our cooperation with the University of Lorraine: we again offered the postgraduate course "Audit of public organizations and policies" (auditing of public organizations and policies) and the master's course "Management of public organisations" (management of public organisations). ) on. In addition, we have designed a new postgraduate program called "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit".
Finally, auditors from other SAIs participated in our internal training. Some of them shared their experience of illustrating reports at the Court's annual Training Day, which was attended by more than 450 people.
Interactive public online courses We opened our online performance auditing training course to the public and held two interactive seminars with a capacity of more than 150 participants from around the world.
Translation The Court's Translation, Language Services and Publishing Directorate translated and revised over 251 000 pages in 2018. This represents an increase of more than 18% compared to 2017.
This increase also led to a higher rate of outsourcing.
In addition, all of our translation teams now use harmonized working methods.
Translators were increasingly involved in the Court's audit activities, providing linguistic support during audit visits and in the preparation of most reports.
This enabled us to create further synergies with our auditors.
The team responsible for the publication is now an integral part of the management.
Review of originals for translation and finally for publication, integrated into a single, streamlined workflow.
Information, Work Environment and Innovation Our Information, Work Environment and Innovation Directorate supports our employees in the effective and efficient use of information technologies by promoting innovation and knowledge management.
Information Management We have launched a new initiative called tECAway, which gives our employees access to the network on the go.
As a result, they can now access the farm's digital resources and services on any device, anywhere, anytime.
The Court has created a new harmonized document management system and introduced multifunction devices for printing, photocopying and scanning.
We expect that these devices will have a beneficial impact on information security and paper consumption.
We have also introduced a new cybersecurity governance model and are currently working on the implementation of the cybersecurity plan.
was duly considered in all IT projects and IT solutions . This ensured the unrestricted availability of critical systems.
Innovation We have also established the ECAlab, an interdisciplinary innovation laboratory that focuses on the digitization of the testing field through the use of data and technology.
The ECAlab tests the use of technologies such as artificial intelligence, natural language processing and text mining on real exam tasks.
This support has already benefited several tasks and publications.
, we conducted a pilot project on the application of blockchain technologies for the notarization of audit evidence and publications.
The resulting prototype, the "ECA registry", was selected by the European Blockchain Partnership - set up by EU Member States and the Commission - to be part of the European Blockchain Infrastructure for Services to be developed from 2019 onwards .
Knowledge Management July 2018 saw the launch of our first annual public audit summer course, co-organized with the University of Pisa and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
45 people from SAIs, EU institutions and universities attended the summer course, which focused on data analysis for audits.
We also held a Blockchain-themed conference, where we explored the possibilities offered by this technology and its practical applications for controlling EU spending.
This conference was primarily aimed at participants from other EU institutions.
Buildings The Court currently has three buildings ("K1", "K2" and "K3") forming a single integrated technical unit.
The Court also rents office space for its data recovery center in Luxembourg.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees; they also house boardrooms, a conference room with interpreter booths, videoconference rooms, a cafeteria and a basic kitchen area.
A detailed study on this project will be carried out in 2019; work is expected to start at the end of this year.
As approved by the European Parliament and Council in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds from the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernization.
K3 The K3 building opened in 2012.
The K3 building was rated "very good" by the world's leading method for assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, BREEAM).
A new security control center and an external accreditation and access control center for staff and visitors became operational in September 2018.
The ECA main building "K1" and the new security control center at Rue Alcide De Gasperi, Luxembourg Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, it is our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all our activities.
We are therefore striving to constantly reduce the environmental impact of the farm.
We now successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
As part of our goal of consistently and systematically reducing our CO2 emissions, we regularly analyze the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities.
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 totaled 10,451 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), a 3% reduction from 2016.
2018 was the fourth consecutive year for which we analyzed our carbon footprint.
67 Accountability of the Court Financial information The Court is funded from the general budget of the European Union, with its budget falling under administrative expenditure.
In 2018, the Court's budget was around €146 million.
This corresponds to less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure, or around 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
The proportion of appropriations used in the 2018 budget was 96%.
Implementation of the budget 2018 68 FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 Final appropriations - Commitments - Use of appropriations % Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euros) 10 - Members of the institution 12 265 11 245 92 % 11 186 12 - Officials and servants temporary 105 044 102 543 98% 102 528 14 - Other staff and external services 6 335 5 914 93% 5 825 162 - Missions 3 450 3 050 88% 2 537 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenses for members and staff 2 990 of the institution 2 883 96% 2 221 Subtotal Title 1 130 084 125 635 97% 124 297 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenditure 20 – Buildings 2 956 2 945 99% 1 822 210 – Informatics and telecommunications 8 708 8 707 99% 4 714 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and associated costs 1 129 1 066 94% 749 23 - Current administrative expenses 557 353 63% 241 25 - Meetings and conferences 708 581 82% 332 27 - Information and publications 1 874 1 197 64% 922 Inter total title 2 15 932 14 849 93 % 8 780 European Court of Auditors total 146 016 140 484 96 % 133 077
2019 budget Appropriations in the 2019 budget show an increase of 0.6% compared to 2018.
69 BUDGET 2019 2018 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euros) 10 - Members of the institution 11 474 12 515 12 - Officials and temporary staff 107 666 106 600 14 - Other staff and external services 6 381 5 745 162 - Missions 3 450 3 450 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure related to Members and staff of the institution 3 098 2 990 Subtotal Title 1 132 069 131 300 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenditure 20 - Building 2 984 2 930 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 7 605 7 492 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and associated expenses 998 1 157 23 - Current administrative expenses 548 555 25 - Meetings and conferences 700 706 27 - Information and publications 1 986 1 876 Subtotal Title 2 14 821 14 716 European Court of Auditors in total 146 890 146 016
Internal and external audit Internal audit The internal audit service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It provides independent and objective assurance and advice designed to add value and improve the Court's activities.
This service also reports to the Internal Audit Committee, which is made up of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee regularly monitors the progress of the various tasks set out in the Internal Audit Service's annual work program and ensures the independence of the Service.
In 2018, she carried out an audit of the Court's cybersecurity systems and construction work related to its perimeter protection.
The service also examined the implementation of the Court's risk management policy and the annual declarations made by the authorizing officers by delegation.
It also oversaw the implementation of its previous recommendations to ensure that the agreed action plans took shape.
In 2018, the service's audits did not reveal any deficiencies that, by their nature or magnitude, would seriously call into question the overall reliability of the internal control systems; these control systems were put in place by the authorizing officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations.
We report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of our internal audit activities.
External control Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach of applying to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the entities it audits.
The auditor's report — PricewaterhouseCoopers Sàrl. — the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2017 was published on 17 May 2018. 70
Opinions of the independent auditor - Financial year 2017 71 Concerning the annual accounts of the Court: "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and financial position of the European Court of Auditors (hereafter "Court") as at 31 December 2017 and of the results of its transactions , its cash flows and changes in net assets for the year then ended in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 (OJ
L 298 of 26.10.2012, p. 1) and its subsequent amendments, hereinafter referred to as "Financial Regulation", as well as Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the provisions for the application of the Financial Regulation and its subsequent amendments changes."
Regarding the use of resources and the Court's control procedures: "During the work steps described in this report, we did not come across any facts from which we would have to conclude that in all material respects and taking into account the assessment criteria mentioned, the funds allocated to the Court were not for the intended purposes and the established control procedures do not offer the necessary guarantee that the financial transactions were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2018, the European Parliament granted discharge to our Secretary-General for the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2016.
As every year, we carefully analyzed the issues raised during the discharge process regarding our audit and management responsibilities, took appropriate action and reported extensively to the European Parliament on our follow-up.
On March 26, 2019, the European Parliament granted discharge to our Secretary General for the financial year 2017.
This means that our financial statements for 2017 have been finally approved.
Peer Reviews Peer reviews mean independent and transparent professional assessments of a particular SAI's capabilities by other SAIs.
Each SAI involved in the peer review will continue to respect the independence of the other SAIs during the conduct.
In 2018, we asked the SAIs of Estonia (lead SAI), Denmark, the Netherlands and the United States to assess whether the Court is on track to achieve its strategic goals at the midpoint of the 2018-2020 period, and whether it is likely that the actions we have taken to implement the strategy to date will have the desired impact.
The peer review report is expected to be published in early 2019.
At the same time, together with the SAIs of Poland and the UK, we started preparing the peer review of the SAI of Lithuania.
The main objective of this expert review will be to assess whether the auditing approach of the SAI of Lithuania is consistent with international norms.
We also commissioned an external and independent review of the Court's ethical framework during the year.
This peer review is carried out by the Courts of Audit of Croatia and Poland.
The audit report is expected to be available in 2019. 72
Declaration of the Authorizing Officer by Delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, in his capacity as Authorizing Officer by Delegation, hereby declare o that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and o certify with reasonable assurance that o the appropriations earmarked for the activities described in this report have been provided, have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, o the control procedures put in place provide the necessary assurances as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and that allegations or suspicions of fraud are dealt with appropriately, o The costs and benefits of the controls are proportionate.
Done at Luxembourg on March 28, 2019 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 73
Appendix – Publications in 2018: Special Reports, Annual Reports, Opinions and Analysis-based Products Special Reports o Special Report No. 01/2018: Joint Assistance in Supporting Projects in European Regions (JASPERS) - Time for a Better Alignment o Special Report No. 02/2018 : The efficiency of the ECB's administration in the field of crisis management for banks o Special Report No. 03/2018: Examination of the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP) o Special Report No. 04/2018: EU assistance to Myanmar/Burma o Special Report No 05/2018: Renewable energy for sustainable rural development: significant but largely untapped potential for synergies o Special report 06/2018: Free movement of workers - fundamental freedom is guaranteed but better targeting of EU funds would improve the mobility of o Special report 07/2018: EU pre-accession assistance to Turkey: so far limited results o Special report 08/2018: EU support for productive investment in business - more focus on durability needed o Special report 09/2018: Public-private partnerships in the EU: widespread gaps and limited benefits o Special report no. 10/2018: BPS for farm owners - Implementation on track but with limited impact in terms of simplification, targeting and adjustment of aid levels o Special Report No 11/2018: New options for financing rural development projects: simpler, but not result-oriented 74
75 o Special Report No. 27/2018: The Facility for Refugees in Turkey: Support helpful, but best use can only be achieved with improvements o Special Report No. 28/2018: Most of the simplification measures under Horizon 2020 have the beneficiary made life easier, but further improvements can be made o Special report 29/2018: EIOPA has made a significant contribution to supervision and stability in the insurance sector, but significant challenges remain o Special report 30/2018: The Fahr EU and air passenger rights are comprehensive, but enforcement remains difficult for travelers o Special report 31/2018: Animal welfare in the EU: Bridging the gap between ambition and practical implementation o Special report 32/2018: The EU Emergency Trust Fund for Africa: a flexible but not sufficiently focused instrument o Special Report No. 33/201 8: Tackling desertification in the EU: a growing threat that requires increased action o Special report 34/2018: Office premises of the EU institutions - some good management practices but also several weaknesses o Special report 35/2018: Transparency of the NGOs used EU funds: further efforts needed Annual reports and special annual reports o Annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017. o Annual report on the activities of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2017 o Annual report on the 41 EU agencies for the financial year 2017 o Summary of the results of the Court's 2017 annual audit of the eight European Joint Research Undertakings o Report on the 2017 annual accounts of the European Schools o Report on any contingent liabilities resulting from the Single Resolution Board, the advice and the Commission carry out their tasks under Regulation (EU) No 806/2014, for the financial year 2017 76
COPYRIGHT NOTICE © European Union, 2019.
Reproduction is permitted provided the source is acknowledged.
Permission for any use or reproduction of the following images must be sought directly from the copyright holders: p. 30, © Croix-Rouge française (French Red Cross).
p. 31, © European Medicines Agency Reproduction of the following images is authorized provided the copyright holder, the source and the names of the photographers and architects are acknowledged: p. 1, 5, 12, 13, 14, 24 , 28, 38, 40, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, 53, © EU / European Court of Auditors p. 9, © EU / European Court of Auditors, Journal p. 20, from left to right, from top to bottom : © EU / European Parliament © EU, 2005 / European Commission Audiovisual Service / Alain Schroeder © EU, 2010 / Carlos Juan © EU, 2008 / European Parliament © EU, 2013 / AFP / Ronny Hartmann © EU, 2016 / Yasin Akgul © EU, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro © EU, 2017 / Frank Molter © EU, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro p. 22, © EU, 2008 / European Parliament p. 23, © EU / Eurostat – GISCO, 02/2018, source data: © EuroGeographics © DG MOVE p. 25, © EU / Eurostat – GISCO, 03/2019, Administrative boundaries: © EuroGeographics © UN-FAO ©Geonames p. 35, © EU, 2008 / Laurent Chamussy p. 66 and 67, © EU / European Court of Auditors, architects of the buildings: Paul Noël (1988) and Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013).
CONTACT THE EU Visit There are hundreds of Europe Direct information offices across the European Union.
Contact Europe Direct - on the toll-free number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (although some telephone service providers charge a fee), - on the standard number: +32 22999696 or - by email on: http://europa.eu/ contact INFORMATION ABOUT THE EU On the Internet You can find information about the European Union in all official languages on the Europa portal: http://europa.eu EU publications You can download or order EU publications, some of them free of charge, from the EU Bookshop: http://publications.europa.eu/eubookshop.
If you would like several copies of a free publication, contact Europe Direct or your nearest information office (see http://europa.eu/contact).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1951 in all official languages, is available in EUR-Lex at http://eur-lex.europa.eu EU Open Data Via its Open Data Portal (http ://data.europa.eu/euodp) the EU provides data sets.
ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 QJ-AA-19-001-DE-C
EN Our activities in 2019 Annual activity report of the European Court of Auditors
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2020 Print ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-4585-2 HTML ISBN 978-92-847-4572-2 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN2315-3903 doi:10.2865/6146 doi:10.2865/105562 doi:10.2865/263527 QJ-AA-20-001-DE-C QJ-AA-20-001-DE-N QJ-AA-20-001-DE- Q
Our activities in 2019 Annual activity report of the European Court of Auditors
2 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors in January 2020.
Contents Foreword by the President 6 2019 at a glance 7 Our activities 9 Strategy 9 Auditing the performance and regularity of EU action 10 Work program 11 On-site audit work 12 Audit reports, analyzes and opinions 15 Cross-cutting issues 32 Institutional relations 34 Cooperation with supreme audit institutions (SAIs) 39 Our management 43 The members 43 Audit chambers and committees 45 Performance measurement 47 Our employees 54 Staff allocation 54 Staff recruitment 54 Age profile 55 Equal opportunities 55 3
4 Supporting audit activities 57 Professional training 57 Translation 59 Information technology, working environment and innovation 59 Building 61 Further enhancing our security measures 63 Environmental management 64 Accountability of the Court 65 Financial information 65 Internal and external audit 67 Declaration of the authorizing officer by delegation 70
European Court of Auditors 5 Who we are o external auditor of the European Union; o established in 1975 by the Brussels Treaty; Assumed office in October 1977; fully-fledged EU institution since the Maastricht Treaty of 1993; o Head office in Luxembourg; o one member per EU Member State, appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament; o Around 900 employees of all EU nationalities.
Our role o We ensure that the EU keeps its accounts accurate, applies its financial rules correctly and that its policies and programs achieve their intended objectives and get the best use of funds. o We contribute to improving EU financial management and promoting accountability and transparency. o We warn of risks, provide assurance, highlight weaknesses and successes, and provide guidance to Union policymakers and legislators. o We submit our comments and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council, national governments and parliaments and the general public. Foreword by the President Dear readers!
2019 was a year of many changes for the Union: elections to the European Parliament were held and a new European Commission took office.
The strategic priorities were redefined and important packages of measures such as the "European Green Deal" or the "Digital Future of Europe" (early 2020) were launched.
Towards the end of the year it also became clear that we would now be a Union of 27 Member States.
At the same time, the EU is at a significant crossroads in terms of its finances.
We are on the verge of concluding negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework, the outcome of which will determine the Union's financing capacity over the next seven years.
All EU institutions must now build on past efforts to further improve the Union's financial management and ensure that the EU delivers.
As an external auditor, we provide an impartial assessment of the Union's policies and programs and of the quality of EU financial management, both inside and outside the Union.
We check that EU spending is compliant and that Union policies and programs ensure optimal use of funds.
This activity report provides an overview of our work in 2019, in which we published a large number of highly topical special reports, analyzes and statements.
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances.
We hope you find this information useful.
We are publishing this year's Annual Activity Report at a time when public health in the EU and its Member States is facing an unprecedented challenge due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our institution has reacted quickly to this situation, in accordance with the health and safety instructions of the Luxembourg government.
I would like to thank all colleagues for their good work and their willingness to adapt flexibly to the current situation.
We must stand together now and do everything we can to continue fulfilling our role as the EU's external auditor in these difficult times.
Klaus Heiner Lehne President 6
7 2019 at a glance
8 What we do Strategy To remain at the forefront of government audit developments, we use multi-year strategies to set long-term audit direction and drive organizational change initiatives for continuous improvement.
At the end of 2019 we had completed the second year of our current strategy for 2018-2020.
During this three-year period, we have set ourselves the following strategic objectives: improve the added value of the Statement of Assurance; more focus on the performance aspects of EU action; Communicating clear statements for our target group.
To put our strategy into practice, we have agreed on an action plan that covers these goals.
In the last two years we have made good progress in implementing our strategic goals.
A number of initiatives and projects have been launched in relation to all the areas targeted, sometimes even going beyond what is set out in the Action Plan, in particular: o A pilot phase of the attestation-based approach to the preparation of the Statement of Assurance, which has led to useful lessons learned ; o A significant increase in the number of performance audits and analytical products and a more diverse range of topics, encompassing both EU spending and regulatory action; o Better liaison with the European Parliament and greater visibility on traditional and social media.
During the year a group of four SAIs (Estonia, Netherlands, Denmark and United States) conducted a peer review of our strategy.
Our peers' report was published in March 2020, just in time to provide valuable impetus for our next strategy from 2021 onwards.
Good progress in implementing our Strategy 9
Auditing the efficiency and regularity of EU actions Performance, financial and compliance audits Our performance audits look at the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes.
The focus here is on issues reflecting issues relevant to the EU, such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, challenges related to migration and global development, the internal market and banking union, and ensuring the accountability and efficiency of the European Union Union.
These audits aim to help the EU better achieve its policy goals.
Our financial and compliance audits result in our statement of reliability and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
We may also carry out selected compliance audits to examine the budgetary and financial management of the Union or to assess whether the management and control systems put in place for the collection and use of EU funds comply with applicable EU and national regulations.
Our audits are in line with internationally recognized auditing standards for the public sector. 10
Strategic Foresight work program In 2019, we continued to embed the Strategic Foresight into our audit work to better address key future challenges for the EU through a forward-looking approach.
To this end, we have set up a Strategy and Foresight Advisory Committee.
One of the current tasks of this five-member committee is to oversee the development of the post-2020 strategy.
Audit priorities in view of the issues relevant to the future of the EU Our work program was published in October 2019. It details our audit priorities for the coming years and the 41 reports and analyzes scheduled for release in 2020.
With our audits planned for 2020 and beyond, we will continue to provide Union citizens and policy makers with independent reports on issues relevant to the future of the EU.
We create the work program for our exams independently, but not in total isolation from our environment.
It is therefore of the utmost importance for us that we work together with our institutional stakeholders, in particular the European Parliament.
As usual, in early 2019 we asked all parliamentary committees to propose possible audit topics for our work programme. 11
On-site audit work Most of our audit work takes place at our offices in Luxembourg.
Our auditors also carry out numerous audit visits to the European Commission – our main auditee; this also applies to the other EU institutions and EU agencies and bodies, the national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, the EU delegations in third countries and the international organizations to which EU funds flow.
We also carry out on-the-spot audits of beneficiaries of EU funds, inside and outside the EU.
These audits enable us to understand the audit trail and obtain direct audit evidence from the entities involved in the management of Union policies and programs and the collection or payment of EU funds, as well as from the recipients of such funds.
In line with the target set in the EU Financial Regulation, we aim to complete our selected audits within 13 months. 12
3 605 days of on-site audit work – inside and outside the EU Our audit teams typically consist of two to three auditors and audit visits can last from a few days to several weeks.
Within the EU, our on-site audits are generally co-ordinated with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States concerned.
13 The frequency and depth of our audit work in each Member State and recipient country depends on the type of audits we conduct.
In 2019, our auditors spent 3 605 days (2018: 3 671 days) on-site inspections – in Member States and outside the EU.
In addition, our auditors spent 2,504 days (2018: 2,723 days) with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralized agencies and bodies across the EU, international organizations such as the United Nations or the OECD, and auditing firms.
In order to interact with our auditees, we are making increasing use of video conferencing and other information technologies, such as the secure exchange of data and documents. 14
Audit reports, analyzes and opinions Our audit reports, analyzes and opinions form an important link in the EU accountability chain.
They help the European Parliament and the Council to monitor and verify that the EU is meeting its policy objectives and to hold those responsible for managing the EU's budget to account, particularly in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
Special reports and analytical products In line with our strategy for 2018-2020, we have increased our focus in recent years on assessing the performance of EU policies.
In 2019 we published 36 special reports and analyzes addressing many of the challenges the Union faces in different EU spending areas such as food safety, renewable energy, e-commerce, border controls, fiscal governance and ethical frameworks in selected EU countries. organs, just to name a few. 15
16 In our special reports we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programs have been met, whether results have been achieved in an effective and cost-effective manner, and whether EU action has added value – that is, whether it has achieved more, than would be possible through action at national level alone.
We also make recommendations for financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or more effectively achieving desired policy goals.
Our analyzes aim to provide introductory descriptions and analytical considerations, often from a cross-sectional perspective and based on previous audits or other publicly available information.
They may also be used by us to present our analysis of areas or issues that have not yet been examined, or to compile facts on specific topics or problems.
Unlike exams, they neither deal with evaluation questions nor do they offer a guarantee of reliability.
17 Sustainable Use of Natural Resources Analysis No. 01/2019: The EU's Response to the "Diesel Scandal" In 2015, deviations between the emission values achieved on the test bench and on the road were found in diesel engines.
Studies revealed that so-called "defeat devices" were used, which in official tests caused lower emissions than in normal driving.
The type-approval authorities of some member states reacted to the emissions scandal by re-testing diesel cars.
These tests showed that on-road exhaust emissions from almost all Euro 5 and Euro 6 light commercial diesel vehicles significantly exceeded the legal NOx limits, in some cases by more than 10 times.
We looked at the actions taken by both the EU and Member States in response to the "diesel scandal".
We also considered the changes made to the exhaust emissions measurement system after September 2015.
We noticed that numerous legal changes to the EU system of vehicle type-approval and emission testing were accelerated.
The Commission is now empowered to review the work of national type approval authorities. It can also have vehicles tested and revoke or suspend type approvals.
Affected third parties can now also carry out emission tests.
The Commission also launched infringement procedures against certain Member States.
We also found that in several Member States there has been an increased willingness to restrict motor vehicle traffic in order to improve air quality. In addition, low-emission zones have been created in several European cities, where car traffic is restricted or banned.
We presented our work results in the form of an analysis, since the changes made to the legislation will not have a measurable impact in the near future.
Our analyzes do not contain any recommendations.
18 Investing for Cohesion, Growth and Inclusion Special Report No 08/2019: Wind and solar power for electricity generation: significant efforts needed to reach EU targets Electricity can come from either non-renewable energy sources such as fossil fuels, non-recyclable waste as well as Nuclear fuels in conventional reactors, or obtained from renewable energy sources such as hydroelectric power, wind and solar power, biomass etc.
Renewable energies are also used to generate heat and cold and to obtain fuel for the transport sector.
Currently, 79% of the EU's total greenhouse gas emissions are due to the use of fossil fuels for energy production.
A higher share of renewable energies in electricity generation will contribute to the EU target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Member States determine how best to use their energy resources and how to structure their energy supply.
The EU can support Member States' actions by providing additional funds for investments in renewable energy projects.
We assessed progress made by the EU and Member States towards renewable energy targets to reach the overall EU target of 20% by 2020 and 32% by 2030.
In Germany, Greece, Spain and Poland, we checked on site whether the promotion of electricity generation from wind energy and photovoltaics was effective.
We found that significant progress had been made in terms of the share of renewable energy in the energy mix from 2005, but that this trend slowed down after 2014.
The share of renewable energies in electricity generation in the EU has increased from around 15% (in 2015) to almost 31% (in 2017) and has thus doubled.
Wind and solar power were the technologies that made the biggest contribution to this increase.
However, reaching the targets will be a major challenge for around half of the Member States.
We recommended that the Commission encourage Member States to support further expansion by conducting auctions to allocate additional renewable energy capacity, encouraging greater citizen participation, simplifying administrative procedures and addressing grid inefficiencies.
In addition, we recommended that the Commission review the legal requirements for Member States to improve the timeliness of statistical data.
19 External Policies, Security and Justice Special Report No 24/2019: Asylum, resettlement and return of migrants: time to step up action to close the gap between goals and results In 2015, the European Union experienced an unprecedented influx of migrants, followed by an increase in asylum applications.
In recent years, immigration numbers have fallen back to pre-crisis levels.
We conducted interviews with officials at the European Commission, the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (commonly referred to as "Frontex").
Audit visits were made to national authorities, international organizations and non-governmental organizations implementing EU-funded projects. In addition, 20 EU support measures in Greece and Italy were examined.
Both Member States are particularly affected by these migration flows.
We assessed whether the objectives of the EU-funded assistance were being met and whether asylum and return procedures were being managed efficiently and expeditiously.
We also examined whether the targets and objectives of the temporary emergency relocation schemes were met.
We found that enrollment and fingerprinting rates had improved significantly in the hotspots.
Despite this, large numbers of migrants continue to move to other EU Member States and apply for asylum without their fingerprints being recorded in the Eurodac database.
In both Member States, the implementation of asylum procedures is still characterized by long processing times and bottlenecks.
A high proportion of applicants were actually relocated (80% in Greece and 89% in Italy).
However, since February 2018, the relocation process in the countries receiving migrants has not been monitored by the Commission.
As in the other EU countries, the return rates from Greece and Italy are low.
We recommended that the next Commission should take appropriate action to improve the management of emergency aid.
In addition, the Commission should draw on past experience when designing future voluntary relocation mechanisms.
Finally, EASO's support for asylum procedures should be improved and Frontex's support for return operations should be adjusted.
20 Market Regulation and Competitive Economy Special Report No 10/2019: EU-wide bank stress tests: more information on banks than ever before, but more coordination and risk focus needed The EU-wide bank stress test aims to assess the potential impact that a common shock on the financial situation and viability of large European banks could have.
It is the task of the European Banking Authority (EBA), in cooperation with the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB), to initiate and coordinate the implementation of EU-wide bank stress tests.
Stress tests have been carried out in the EU since 2011, all of them bottom-up. The banks provided the results of the shock scenario based on the methodology approved by the EBA.
We assessed the implementation of the EU-wide bank stress test under the mandate given to the EBA.
We found that at the outset of the process, the EBA did not specify the risks or the level of severity that it considered relevant to the stress testing process.
The ESRB, which developed the stress scenario, received significant input from the ECB as well as from the national central banks and authorities.
As a result, the EBA lacked control over key phases of the procedure.
In the United States, regulators rely on a top-down approach, giving them a much greater degree of control over the results achieved by banks.
Conversely, the role of the EBA in the EU is limited to initiating stress tests, providing the methodology and largely coordinating stress tests.
The EBA stress test assessed the vulnerability of the system and banks to an economic downturn rather than a severe financial shock affecting the system.
Although the EBA aimed for broad coverage, certain risky banks were excluded from the stress test.
The EBA's bottom-up approach led to limited reliability and comparability of the results achieved by banks.
We recommended that the EBA should increase its scrutiny over the stress testing process and develop a top-down approach to complement the current bottom-up approach.
Furthermore, in order to fulfill their purpose of assessing resilience to adverse market developments, future stress tests should take due account of the risks arising within the EU financial system, ensure a minimum level of stress and provide clear indications of banks' resilience.
After all, the selection of banks for the stress test should not only be based on size, but also on risk.
21 Funding and governance of the Union Special Report No 14/2019: "Have your say!"
The Commission's public consultations involve citizens but lack public outreach 'Better regulation' is about ensuring that policy decisions are prepared in an open and transparent manner, are based on the best available evidence and are read by citizens Citizens and other stakeholders, such as civil society organizations and representative associations, are fully involved.
The Commission has an obligation to consult citizens and representative associations on all areas of Union action.
The Better Regulation Guidelines define stakeholder consultation and include citizens as "stakeholders".
Stakeholder consultations, in particular public consultations, collect information and views from citizens and other stakeholders when the Commission is preparing a policy initiative or evaluating ongoing interventions.
The Commission carries out on average more than 100 public consultations per year.
We assessed whether the Commission's public consultations have been effective in reaching out to citizens and stakeholders and capitalizing on their input.
We examined the design of the Commission's framework, the manner in which the Commission prepared and conducted a selection of public consultations, and the manner in which it provided information on the consultation activities and used the consultation work.
We reviewed a sample of 26 Commission public consultations conducted by five DGs over the period 2016-2018 and conducted an opinion poll to determine how satisfied respondents to public consultations actually were.
We found the Commission's framework for public consultation to be of a high standard.
In addition, the sample of public consultations carried out by the Commission was overall positive and the participants' perception of them was generally satisfactory.
Inadequacies were identified in public relations and feedback. For example, the full range of communication channels was not always used, there were no clear criteria to justify why a questionnaire was not available in all official EU languages, and some questionnaires were long and complex.
We recommended that public promotion of the consultations should be larger and more targeted to increase visibility and enable more people to participate.
We also suggested that the Commission better report on the follow-up to the public consultation.
Finally, there is room for improvement in citizen participation when it comes to launching legislative proposals within the framework of the European Citizens' Initiative.
Audit Previews Audit previews provide information on ongoing audit tasks (in the field of performance auditing).
They are based on the preparatory work carried out before an audit begins and are intended to provide a source of information for all those interested in the specific policy area and/or program which is the subject of an ongoing audit.
In 2019, we issued 18 exam previews (2018: 12).
Annual reports and special annual reports The annual reports essentially contain the results of our Statement of Assurance on the European Union budget and the European Development Funds (EDFs).
The special annual reports contain the results of our annual audit of the accounts of the EU Agencies, Decentralized Bodies and Joint Undertakings and the European Schools.
We also publish a report on the contingent liabilities arising from the Single Resolution Board (SRB) carrying out its duties. 22
Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2018 Every year we audit the EU's revenue and expenditure to examine the reliability of the accounts and the underlying revenue and expenditure transactions with the relevant EU and national legislation Member States are in line.
In addition, we present specific assessments on all major areas of the EU budget - based on the (sub)headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020.
We also analyze why and where errors occurred, make recommendations for improvements and examine whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been put into practice.
Finally, we provide information on housekeeping and financial management, as well as performance-related information.
This extensive work forms the basis of our Statement of Assurance, which we are required to present to the European Parliament and the Council, in accordance with our mandate as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
EU general budget: unqualified opinion on the reliability of the accounts and revenue; qualified audit opinion on expenditure In 2018, EU expenditure amounted to 156.7 billion euros; this corresponds to 2.2% of the total government expenditure of the EU Member States and 1% of the gross national income of the Union.
Our auditors examined a sample of 728 payments to beneficiaries, made across all spending areas of the EU budget, from an audited population of around €120 billion.
This means that we assessed different cases where EU funds had been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research organisations, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
For the financial year 2018 we gave an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the EU revenue.
In addition, we were able to provide a qualified audit opinion on EU spending for the third year in a row. 23
Around half of the expenditure audited is free of material error As in previous years, we found that errors in EU spending were not pervasive and, with the exception of high-risk expenditure (mainly reimbursed, subject to complex regulations expenses) the payments were legal and regular.
24 Overall, with an error rate of 2.6%, the Commission and the Member States have maintained the progress recorded over the previous two years (2017 financial year: 2.4%; 2016 financial year: 3.1%).
We see this as an encouraging sign.
Error - what does it mean?
An error or irregular payment is the amount of funds that should not have been paid from the EU budget because they were not used in accordance with EU or national rules and therefore not what Council and Parliament have agreed to with the correspond to the objectives pursued by the relevant EU legal acts or are contrary to specific national rules in the Member States.
We estimate the level of error using statistical methods, based on quantifiable (ie measurable in monetary terms) errors that we have identified by testing a sample of transactions across the entire audited population of expenditure.
most error-prone MFF (sub-)heading was "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" , followed by "Natural resources" and "Competitiveness for growth and jobs" . 25
Annual Report on the European Development Funds EDFs: unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and revenue; Qualified Opinion on Expenditure 26 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are the EU's main aid instruments in the context of development cooperation.
The EDFs aim to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development and the integration of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and Overseas Countries and Territories into the world economy.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
As in previous years, for the financial year 2018 we issued an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the EDF accounts and revenue and a qualified audit opinion on EDF expenditure.
Specific annual reports on the EU Agencies and the JUs The EU Agencies are separate bodies with legal personality created to carry out specific technical, scientific and managerial tasks, thereby helping to shape the policies of the EU institutions and carry out.
There are 43 agencies in total.
Joint Undertakings are public-private partnerships between the EU and industry, research groups and Member States that play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is the public sector member of the Joint Undertakings and represents the EU.
There are eight Joint Undertakings in total.
27 Note: The United Kingdom left the European Union on January 31, 2020.
Unqualified opinion for all but one agency; unqualified audit opinion for all JUs In the 2018 financial year, a total of EUR 4.2 billion was allocated to all agencies (excluding the SRB), which is 20% more than in 2017 (EUR 3.5 billion). This corresponds to approximately 2.9% of the EU general budget for 2018 (2017: 2.7%).
Overall, our audit of the agencies' accounts for the financial year 2018 confirmed the positive results demonstrated in previous years.
We gave unqualified audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts, revenue and payments underlying the agencies' accounts; this does not apply to EASO, which received a qualified audit opinion on the payments.
We also issued unqualified audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts, revenue and expenditure to all JUs.
Parliament launches the discharge process The publication of our annual reports marks the start of the discharge process, during which the European Parliament – on a recommendation from the Council – decides whether the Commission and other bodies have managed the EU budget satisfactorily.
In October 2019, we presented our annual reports on the EU general budget and the EDFs to the Budgetary Control Committee of the European Parliament and subsequently to the plenary of the European Parliament, the ECOFIN Council and the parliaments and national authorities of 21 Member States .
28 Other annual reports: on contingent liabilities and the European Schools We are required to report annually on all contingent liabilities incurred by the Single Resolution Board, the Council and the Commission in connection with the performance of their bank resolution responsibilities.
In our 2018 report, we concluded that the Committee has improved the presentation of its accounts but that better reporting of contingent liabilities is needed from a national level.
We also publish an annual report on the annual accounts of the European Schools.
Our review of the 2018 accounts revealed a material level of error for one of the 13 European Schools.
Towards Digital Audit Digital is about harnessing the potential of technology to provide more and better information for the accountability process.
Digital change is also of great importance for our audit work and our organization.
We have set up a five-member Digitization Steering Committee to steer this transition process over the coming years.
As the first major audit initiative, in 2019 we launched a pilot to automate the audit of executive agencies' accounts.
In this pilot, we will use traditional and digital tools at the same time. 29
Opinions Opinions: contributing to Better Regulation One way for us to strengthen the Commission's approach to Better Regulation is to publish Opinions on Commission proposals for new or amended legislation.
When it comes to legislative proposals with significant financial implications, EU law requires the Court's opinions.
Other bodies may also ask us to issue opinions on specific issues.
Our opinions are presented to the European Parliament and the Council.
In 2019 we published three opinions: on the proposal for the European Union Intellectual Property Office, on a proposal for the financial regulation of the Single Resolution Board (SRB) and on the proposal for the financial regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office.
Our observations on the new MFF In early 2019, we also published our summary of the ECA's observations on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2021-2027.
This briefing focused on the proposed process for prioritizing EU spending, flexibility of the EU budget, performance orientation and administrative simplification, and arrangements for accountability and audit.
This analysis was based mainly on a number of opinions we issued on the Commission's proposals over the course of 2018, but also on our most recent briefing papers and other reports on EU finances.
Balanced number of publications throughout the year We achieved a relatively balanced number of publications throughout the year, peaking in October when we issued our annual reports.
31 32 Fighting fraud against the EU's financial interests Administrative Arrangement signed with OLAF The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) is at the forefront of fighting fraud against the EU's financial interests.
We have adopted detailed guidance on how to manage fraud risk for our auditors.
We refer to OLAF any suspicion of fraud or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the EU arising from our audit work or reported to us.
These cases are then processed by OLAF, which decides on possible investigations and, where necessary, cooperates with Member State authorities.
In 2019 we also signed an Administrative Arrangement setting out the operational arrangements for our cooperation with OLAF, including the coordination of training, workshops and staff exchanges.
10 cases of suspected fraud referred to OLAF We are the EU's external auditor.
Our checks are not specifically designed to detect fraud.
Nonetheless, our auditors regularly identify a number of cases where they suspect fraudulent activity.
In 2019, we sent 10 cases of suspected fraud to OLAF (2018: 9 cases), of which 8 came to our attention in the course of our audits and 2 cases arose from tips received from third parties.
Additional information on the nature of these suspected frauds and the resulting recoveries recommended by OLAF can be found in our annual report on the general budget of the EU.
In 2019 we also published two special reports closely related to the fight against fraud in EU spending: Special Report 01/2019 "Fighting fraud in EU spending: action is needed" and the Special Report No 06/2019 "Tackling fraud in EU cohesion spending: managing authorities need to step up detection, response and coordination".
33 Finally, we dedicated a special issue of the ECA Journal to fighting fraud and corruption and protecting the EU's financial interests.
Focus on sustainability UN Sustainable Development Goals at the heart of our audit work In recent years, in which we have focused on environmental and climate issues, sustainability issues have been audit topics of paramount importance.
In 2019, our work in the area of sustainability was supplemented by the analysis of sustainability reporting.
This analysis provided an overview of how the EU institutions publish sustainability information and how they contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
We also hosted a conference – the ECA Sustainability Reporting Forum – to raise awareness and bring key stakeholders together.
In July, we attended a meeting of SAI Presidents and stakeholders on “SAIs Making Things Happen: Auditing the Implementation of the SDGs” at the UN High Level Political Forum on the 2030 Agenda.
Finally, we published a special issue of the ECA Journal on the SDGs.
Audit team: Analysis "Sustainability reporting: taking stock of the EU institutions, bodies and agencies".
Institutional relations Steady increase in presentations to the European Parliament, Council and national parliaments We work closely with the European Parliament (EP), Council and national parliaments in the Member States as the impact of our work depends to a large extent on how these institutions benefit from our audit results and recommendations.
Our audit reports are presented to the relevant committees of the European Parliament and the working groups of the Council.
We also present our annual reports, but also our special reports and analyzes to the national parliaments.
In 2019, the presentations of our reports to these institutional audiences continued to increase, mainly due to a significant increase in presentations to national parliaments.
At the same time, due to the parliamentary break from mid-April to September 2019, fewer presentations were made to the EP. 34
Meeting with the newly elected Presidents of the EU institutions 2019 was a year of change at the helm of many EU institutions: after their election, our President met with the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Presidents of the European Commission and the Presidents of the European Council.
35 ECA President Lehne with EP President David Sassoli, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Council President Charles Michel.
European Parliament Our members and audit teams are regularly invited by the committees and bodies of the European Parliament, and in particular by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
In 2019, special circumstances prevailed due to the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019, in that the meetings of the parliamentary committees were paused in mid-April and then resumed in September.
We presented 31 special reports and 10 analyzes to 14 committees (2018: 39 reports and 14 committees).
Following the elections, we launched an awareness campaign to inform MEPs about our work as the EU's external auditor.
We also organized a series of workshops for EP staff.
Finally, in October 2019, we launched a publication portal that allows more user-friendly access to our reports not only for members of the EP, but also for the general public. 36
Council of the European Union In 2019, our audit teams presented 26 special reports to 22 Council working groups and two committees (2018: 40 reports and 27 working groups).
We also presented two analyses: one to the Budgets Committee during an informal Council meeting in Romania and another to the Working Group on the 2030 Agenda.
We also exchanged views with the Financial Services Committee on the agreement with the European Central Bank, with the Budgets Committee on our 2020 draft budget and presented our 2020 work program in December 2019.
In October 2019, the President of the Eurogroup paid us a visit to discuss the current status and future reforms of the Economic and Monetary Union and our potential contribution in the area of fiscal and economic governance in the EU.
In addition, the Chair of the Eurogroup Working Group met with our members in May 2019.
Member State governments and national parliaments More appearances in national parliaments Our members regularly visit national parliaments and governments.
In 2019 we made 90 presentations in 21 Member States (2018: 50 presentations in 14 Member States).
This represents the highest number to date. 37
European Commission Exchanging views with our auditees at the highest level For years it has been standard practice for our members to hold an annual meeting with their counterparts in the Commission.
These meetings provide an opportunity to take stock and reflect on how our cooperation can be further improved.
European Central Bank In June 2019, this tradition continued when President Jean-Claude Juncker invited our members to exchange views with the College of Commissioners in Brussels.
In October 2019, we signed an agreement with the European Central Bank that sets out the practical modalities for the exchange of information on the European Central Bank's supervisory activities for our auditors.
Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) Contact Committee of EU SAIs Annual Meeting 2019 in Poland Our cooperation with EU SAIs takes place primarily within the framework of the Contact Committee of EU SAI Presidents.
This network of EU SAIs enables us to promote independent external audit activities in the EU and its Member States.
In June 2019, we attended the annual meeting hosted by the SAI of Poland, which also chaired it.
Discussions centered around the challenges and opportunities that Digital Europe brings to EU SAIs.
At this meeting we chaired the Contact Committee, as we do every three years.
Contact Committee meeting, Warsaw, June 2019. 39
Online portal "Public audit in the EU" In January 2019 we launched an online portal on financial control in the European Union.
This online portal provides information on the mandate, status, organizational structure, activities and outputs of the supreme audit institutions of the EU and its Member States.
Audit compendium on public health in the EU In December 2019, on behalf of the Contact Committee, we published a second audit compendium that provides information on the public health audits carried out across the European Union.
The compendium provides background information on public health, its legal basis, its main objectives and related responsibilities at Member State and EU level. It also illustrates the main challenges facing the EU and its Member States in this regard.
It is based on recent audit findings from the European Court of Auditors and SAIs from 23 EU Member States.
In 2019 we started preparatory work for a third exam compendium, to be published in 2020, which will deal with the topic of cybersecurity. 40
INTOSAI In 2019, the ECA continued its active involvement in the activities of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), notably in its capacity as Vice-Chair of the Professional Standards Committee (since December 2016) and as a member of the Subcommittee for the Audit of the Accounting and Accounting, the Compliance Audit Subcommittee and the Performance Audit Subcommittee.
We also participated in the activities and projects of other INTOSAI working bodies, primarily in the areas of environmental auditing, big data, financial modernization and regulatory reform, and assessment of public policies and programs.
We have also been involved in the INTOSAI task force on professionalizing auditors, the INTOSAI Development Initiative (IDI) and the ISSAI 200 revision project under the aegis of the Financial Audit and Accounting Subcommittee.
INTOSAI Congress (INCOSAI) in September 2019 in Moscow.
Two main themes were discussed in detail at the conference: information technology for the development of public administration and SAI's contribution to national priorities and goals.
EUROSAI We also actively participated in the activities of the European Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), the European regional group of INTOSAI, notably in their Working Groups on Environmental Auditing, IT Auditing and Auditing of Disaster Relief, and in their Task Force on Auditing and Ethics.
We also participated in several workshops and seminars and contributed to the publication of a joint report on air quality with 14 other European SAIs. In October 2019 we hosted the seventeenth annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Auditing and a joint conference on biodiversity. Finally, we attended the Third EUROSAI-ASOSAI Joint Conference on “Emerging Issues and Emergencies” in March 2019 in Israel, as well as the First EUROSAI-AFROSAI Joint Seminar in November 2019 in Lisbon, hosted by the Portuguese SAI .
41 Annual Meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Auditing, October 2019.
42 The SAIs of the EU candidate and potential candidate countries We also support the SAIs of the candidate and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo*, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey). This support is primarily provided through a network similar to the Contact Committee and through our sponsorship of activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2019, 10 auditors from SAIs of the network participated in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to the meetings and activities of the network. This included addressing topics such as higher impact accounting methods and digital auditing.
Peer reviews of other EU SAIs A peer review is an external independent review of one or more elements of the organization and/or functioning of an SAI by a team of peers from one or more SAIs.
It is not an examination, but an assessment and advice from specialist colleagues on a voluntary basis.
In 2019, a peer review team led by our Secretary General conducted a peer review of the SAI of Lithuania together with the SAIs of Poland and the UK.
The main objective was to assess whether the auditing practices of the Lithuanian SAI were in line with international auditing standards.
In December 2019, the final report was submitted to the Lithuanian Parliament (Seimas). * This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) and the International Court of Justice Opinion on Kosovo's Declaration of Independence.
Our Management The Members The ECA acts as a collegiate body of Members, with one Member per Member State.
Each member is appointed by the Council, after consultation of the European Parliament, following their nomination by their respective national governments.
We are not granted any role in the nomination and appointment of members.
They will make a solemn undertaking to that effect before the Court of Justice of the European Union when they take office.
43 Meeting of the College of Members of the ECA on 18 July 2019 in Luxembourg.
In 2019, the Council appointed four new Court members: Viorel Ștefan (Romania) from July 1, 2019 and Ivana Maletić (Croatia) from July 15, 2019, and Joëlle Elvinger (Luxembourg) and François-Roger Cazala (France) from July 1, 2019 January 2020.
In addition, the Council extended the terms of office of three incumbent members: Alex Brenninkmeijer (Netherlands), Nikolaos Milionis (Greece) and Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany).
Phil Wynn Owen (UK) was a member until January 31, 2020.
As of March 2020, following the appointment of Janusz Wojciechowski as Member of the European Commission in December 2019, a Polish Member has yet to be nominated and appointed.
In 2019, the College of Members of the ECA met 21 times (2018: 18 times).
President The President's responsibilities include the board's strategy, planning and performance management, communications and media relations, the relationship with the other boards, legal matters and internal audit.
The President also represents the Court in all of its external relations.
The members elect the President from among themselves for a period of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President; he was re-elected in September 2019.
The President and Members 44 Note: as of March 2020.
Examination Chambers and Committees The members are assigned to one of our five examination chambers. The majority of our audit reports, analyzes and statements are prepared and accepted in the chambers.
The Chambers are governed by a Dean or Dean elected by the members of the Chamber from among themselves.
As of December 2019, the five Examination Chambers were led by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Milionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Alex Brenninkmeijer and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Danièle Lamarque was the Member responsible for Audit Quality Control (until her term expired in December 2019).
She chaired the Audit Quality Control Committee.
The chambers divide their areas of responsibility among the members.
Each member is accountable to the Chamber and the Court for its own audit work.
The members are supported by a cabinet.
In addition to their role in the Audit Chambers, some members have also taken on other responsibilities: Oscar Herics chaired the Ethics Committee, Samo Jereb chaired the Audit Committee, Eva Lindström chaired the Digitalization Steering Committee and João Figueiredo chaired the Strategy and Foresight Advisory Committee.
Rimantas Šadžius was the member responsible for institutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues are taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President. 45
46 Our senior management consists of the Secretary General and the Directors.
There are 10 Directorates in total: five of these are attached to the Audit Chambers, one to the Audit Quality Control Committee, another to the President and three to the Secretary General.
Our senior management Note: as of March 2020.
Performance Measurement We use Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform our management on progress towards our strategic objectives, to support the decision-making process and to inform our institutional stakeholders about our performance.
These KPIs provide a high-level view of how we as an organization are doing our work in terms of dissemination, impact and perception.
36 reports released as planned in 2019 We monitor the number and timing of reports released throughout the year.
In 2019 we published 36 reports: 25 special reports and 11 analyses.
This corresponds to the number of publications planned in the work programme.
Number of special reports and analyzes published 47 We also issued six annual reports, three opinions, 18 audit previews and four other publications.
In total, we produced 67 publications during the year. 48
Media exposure Continued increase in social media coverage We monitor media coverage of our work and our body, which can vary significantly depending on the subject matter and complexity of a report.
At the same time, external factors can strongly influence media interest in our publications.
This may be the case, for example, when the date of publication of a report coincides with an important event or political development, which may significantly increase public interest in the subject in question.
In total, more than 50,000 free online articles and social media posts were noted in 2019.
49 For 2019, we saw a significant increase in our social media posts, also due to more active use of these communication channels throughout the year.
Increased contacts with the press In 2019, we intensified our contacts with the press and the media.
We did this by: o issuing 61 press releases in 23 EU languages (2018: 76), as well as numerous short releases and notices for the media in specific languages; o Held 25 press briefings (2018: 20), including sector and country press briefings related to the annual report.
These press briefings usually take place in Brussels.
We also received on-site visits from journalists based in Brussels and Member States and organized several briefings on selected reports for industry stakeholders, NGOs and think tanks.
Visit of journalists from Member States to Luxembourg in November 2019. 50
One million visitors to our website In 2019, the number of visits to our website exceeded one million for the first time.
In total, we recorded around 511,000 individual visitors.
Increased Followers on Social Media Throughout the year, we saw an increase in our presence and engagement on social media – particularly Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn – which has now become an essential part of our communication activities and allows us to engage directly exchange with citizens.
At the end of 2019, our three social media accounts had around 29,500 followers (2018: around 22,500). 51
Impact and perception of our work 88% of stakeholders surveyed find our audit reports useful We assess the likely impact and usefulness of our audit work based on feedback from our stakeholders from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, EU agencies, the permanent representations of the Member States, Member State public bodies and SAIs, NGOs, academia, the media and other parties.
Since 2018, we have been seeking feedback from our stakeholders on a selection of special reports and analyses, as well as on the Annual Report, through anonymous electronic surveys.
Through these surveys, stakeholders can also provide feedback on the quality of the reports and make general suggestions about the Court's work.
Overall, in 2019, 88% of respondents said our reports were useful for their work and 81% said they were effective.
52 Follow-up to our recommendations Almost all of our recommendations implemented We determine the status of the implementation of our recommendations based on the follow-up performed by our auditors.
For 2019, we analyzed the recommendations made in our special reports published in 2015 and the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 96% of the recommendations we made in our 2015 annual report and 94% of the recommendations in our special reports published in 2015 have been fully, largely or (at least) partially implemented. 53
Our staff Allocation At the end of 2019, our institution had 853 permanent and temporary posts (2018: 853 permanent posts), of which 534 were in the audit chambers, including 118 permanent posts in the Members' cabinets.
54 In addition, at the end of the year we had 75 contract agents and 16 seconded national experts (2018: 76 and 15 respectively).
Recruitment Our recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions. Our employees have a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds.
In 2019, the Court recruited 77 staff (2018: 79 staff): 17 officials, 33 temporary agents, 21 contract agents and six seconded national experts.
We also provided 55 internship positions (2018: 60) for university graduates for periods of three to five months.
Age profile Almost three quarters (74%) of the staff on active duty at the end of 2019 are aged between 40 and 59.
55 More than half of our directors and senior managers are 50 years of age or older.
As a result, over the next five to 10 years, as these employees retire, there will be renewal in leadership positions.
Equal opportunities The Court provides equal professional opportunities for its staff at all levels of the organisation.
Overall, we have a balanced proportion of women and men among our employees.
In 2019, approximately one-third of our directors and senior managers are women.
57 Support for audit activities Professional development Record number of training activities In 2019, we continued to diversify and expand the training offer for our staff.
We organized a record number of training courses, conferences, presentations and workshops on a wide variety of topics.
We continued to provide financial support to employees to participate in externally hosted courses and programs to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and degrees.
We also launched a leadership development program consisting of courses, coaching and mentoring for employees who want to improve their leadership skills.
We supported HR operations by training newly created pools of career advisors, mentors and internal facilitators.
Training days target exceeded We again exceeded the professional training days target (5 days of non-language training per year) set in accordance with the recommendations of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).
Our examiners completed an average of 7.5 training days; our employees who do not work as auditors accounted for an average of 3.6 training days.
Collaboration in the field of training In July 2019, the second Summer School on Public Audit and Accountability took place at the University of Pisa on the theme "Digitalization of Audit".
We also continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine, within which we offered the fifth edition of the postgraduate course "Audit of public organizations and policies" leading to the master's degree "Management of public organisations".
In addition, we started a new postgraduate program on "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit".
These programs are now also open to European Commission staff.
Finally, we intensified our cooperation with NATO's International Audit Committee (IBAN) in the field of training.
In May 2019, a workshop on "Audit of the Union's security and defense policy" was held in the Court, bringing together auditors dealing with security and defense policy issues from the Commission, NATO, the European Defense Agency, the Joint Organization for Armaments Cooperation (OCCAR ), the Athena Mechanism and several EU Supreme Audit Institutions.
Launch of ECAdemy We also launched ECAdemy, a tool that allows us to share course material, publish conference recordings and organize webinars with anyone interested in public audit in the EU and its Member States.
This e-learning platform is open to the general public free of charge at https://ecademy.eca.europa.eu.
58 Sabine Chaupain-Guillot, Vice-Chair of the Education Committee of the University of Lorraine, Lazaros S. Lazarou, ECA Member (February 2019).
Translation In 2019 we translated and revised more than 223,000 pages including outsourced work (2018: 251,000).
We translate our publications into all EU official languages.
We also translate our correspondence with Member State authorities into their national language, as required by law.
Our translators are also often involved in our audit activities, providing linguistic support during audit visits and the preparation of reports.
Information Technology, Work Environment and Innovation Transition to cloud-based services An important milestone is the transition to cloud-based services, which has generally provided an easy-to-use system for various end-user requests (IT, human resources, office equipment, security, etc.). .
A new IT security action plan has achieved many of its goals, such as remediating software vulnerabilities more effectively and regularly, preventing unauthorized access to cloud services, reviewing information security governance, and enhancing our security monitoring capabilities.
Finally, in 2019 an ambitious technical program was implemented to provide equipment and systems that allow all employees to work more flexibly, e.g. B. Home office, teleconferencing and mobile work.
New open data policy In 2019, we also adopted a new open data policy.
The re-use of documents and the process of providing our data are determined in cooperation with the Publications Office. 59
ECALab ECALab, our interdisciplinary innovation lab team, has continued to research technologies such as text mining, artificial intelligence and process mining.
In 2019, ECALab also started supporting a number of exam tasks.
Network for Technology and Innovation in Auditing In November 2019, at the "Big and open data" conference held at our premises in Luxembourg, we also presented the EU SAIs' Network for Technology and Innovation in Auditing (Technology and Innovation for Audit, TINA) founded.
Conference on "Big and open data", November 2019, Luxembourg.
To accompany the development of the European blockchain services infrastructure by the European Commission and Member States based on our "proof of concept", another network of EU SAIs on blockchain technology in the audit area has been set up. 60
Buildings The Court currently has three buildings ("K1", "K2" and "K3") forming a single integrated technical unit.
K1 The K1 building, which opened in 1988, has office space for up to 310 employees and boardrooms.
The basement floors house parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, the library and the main archive, while the entire top floor is used for technical facilities.
The K1 building was modernized in 2008 to bring it in line with national health, safety and environmental requirements.
Wherever possible, the technology in the K1 building has been adjusted to be compatible with the K2 and K3 buildings.
Parking spaces, technical systems, storage rooms and the fitness center are located in the basement.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees; they also house boardrooms, a conference room with translation booths, videoconference rooms, a cafeteria and basic kitchen areas.
We are currently modernizing the K2 building to optimize the organization of its workspaces and to update certain technical systems.
A detailed study of this project was carried out in 2019 and work started at the end of the year.
As approved by the European Parliament and the Council in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining budget of the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernization. 61
In the basement there are parking lots, technical facilities, storage rooms, unloading areas, waste storage facilities, the printing shop, kitchens and archives.
There are also offices for 503 employees, boardrooms and an IT room in this building.
Based on the world's leading method for assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, BREEAM), the K3 building was rated "very good". 62
Further increasing our security measures In 2019, we took a number of measures to increase security in our buildings in Luxembourg.
This included setting up a team of armed security guards.
An agreement has been reached with the Luxembourg police allowing us to use their national training centres.
We have also agreed with the European External Action Service to support our auditors in their visits to high-risk countries.
63 Eduardo Ruiz García, ECA Secretary General and Helga Schmid, EEAS Secretary General.
Environmental management As an EU institution, it is our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all our activities.
We strive to continue to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions and regularly analyze the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities.
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 totaled 10,178 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), a 3% reduction from 2017.
We are proud of our EMAS certification for environmental management and environmental audit: We successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
An external EMAS audit was carried out in the last quarter of 2019, resulting in our EMAS certification being renewed for the 2020-2022 period.
New initiatives such as the "plastic-free ECA" initiative are progressing according to plan.
In 2019, we also placed four beehives in our gardens in collaboration with the Luxembourg Ministry of Agriculture.
The bees are cared for by volunteers.
We anticipate that this will have a positive impact on the sustainability of pollinators in our area. 64
Accountability of the Court Financial information The Court is funded from the general budget of the European Union, its budget falling under administrative expenditure.
For 2019, our budget was around €147 million, 98% of which was used during the year.
This corresponds to less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure, or around 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
Execution of budget 2019 65 10 - Members of the institution 11 324 20 - Building 3 526 210 - Computers and telecommunications 8 085 3 523 % use of appropriations FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 Final appropriations Title 1: Members and commitments 97% 99% Payments Staff of the institution ( thousand euros) 11 004 10 963 12 – Officials and temporary staff 107 367 14 – Other staff and external services 6 683 106 434 99% 106 434 162 – Missions 3 200 6 407 2 700 96% 84% 6 272 2 457 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure for Members 3 089 and staff of the institution Subtotal Title 1 131 663 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous administrative expenditure 3 008 129 553 97% 98% 2 201 128 327 1 965 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and associated expenses 976 8 085 100% 5 138 23 - Current administrative expenses 424 880 90% 769 25 - Meetings and conferences 620 339 80% 272 27 - Information and publications 1 596 Subtotal Title 2 15 227 European Total Court of Auditors 146 890 487 78% 97% 302 1 448 14 762 90% 1 027 9 473 144 315 98% 137 800
2020 budget Appropriations in the 2020 budget show an increase of 4.3% compared to 2019.
BUDGET 2020 2019 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euros) 10 - Members of the institution 11 751 12 - Officials and temporary staff 111 860 14 - Other staff and external services 7 403 162 - Missions 3 370 161 + 163 + 165 - Other expenditure related to members and staff of the institution 11 474 66 107 666 6 381 3 450 Subtotal Title 1 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous material expenditure 2 945 137 329 3 098 132 069 20 - Buildings 3 255 2 984 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 7 718 7 605 212 + 214 + 216 - Furniture and associated costs 963 998 23 - Current administrative expenses 563 25 - Meetings and conferences 696 27 - Information and publications 2 613 Subtotal title 2 15 808 European Court of Auditors total 153 137 548 700 1 986 14 821 146 890
Internal and external audit Internal audit The internal audit service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It provides independent and objective assurance and advice designed to add value and improve the Court's activities.
This service also reports to the Internal Audit Committee, which is made up of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee regularly monitors the progress of the various tasks set out in the Internal Audit Service's annual work program and ensures the independence of the Service.
During 2019, the Internal Audit Service carried out three selected tasks: "Risks and challenges of the Audit Quality Control Committee", "Travel expenses of Members and senior officials, expenses for Members' representation and use of the Court's vehicle fleet" and " professional training activities of the Court".
Our risk management strategy and three annual declarations by authorizing officers by sub-delegation were also examined.
In addition, the Internal Audit Service monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations, ensuring that agreed action plans were being implemented and providing advice on the Court's new internal control framework.
Our internal auditor did not identify any deficiencies that, by their nature or magnitude, would seriously call into question the overall reliability of the internal control systems; these control systems had been put in place by the Authorizing Officer by Delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations in 2019.
External audit Our annual financial statements are audited by an independent external auditor.
We attach great importance to this audit as it demonstrates that we apply the same principles of transparency and accountability to ourselves as to the entities we audit.
The auditor's report - PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à.rl - on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2018 was published on 4 April 2019. 67
Opinions of our independent auditor - Financial year 2018 68 On the Court's accounts: "In our opinion, the accounts give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2018, and of the results of its operations, cash flows and changes of net assets for the year then ended in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No. 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EC , Euratom) Council No. 1605/2002 (OJ
L 298 of October 26, 2012, p. 1) and subsequent amendments thereto, hereinafter referred to as the "Financial Regulation", as well as Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 1268/2012 of October 29, 2012 (OJ
L 362 of 31.12.2012, p. 1) on the rules of application of the Financial Regulation and subsequent amendments."
Regarding the use of resources and the Court's control procedures: "During the work steps described in this report, we did not come across any facts from which we would have to conclude that in all material respects and taking into account the assessment criteria mentioned o the funds allocated to the Court are not for the intended purposes and o the established control procedures do not offer the necessary guarantee that the financial transactions were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
Discharge for the financial year 2017 Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In March 2019, the European Parliament granted discharge to our Secretary-General for the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2017.
As every year, we carefully analyzed all issues raised during the discharge process regarding our audit and management responsibilities, took appropriate action and reported extensively to the European Parliament on our follow-up.
Peer review of our ethics framework Finally, in 2019, our ethics framework underwent external peer review by the SAIs of Poland and Croatia.
The corresponding report was completed in January 2020. 69
Declaration of the authorizing officer by delegation Pursuant to Article 74(9) of the Financial Regulation Declaration of the authorizing officer by delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorizing officer by delegation, o that the information contained in this report, as well as the additional internal information, is necessary for the fulfillment of my duties , which contains financial and management information, including the results of controls, is true and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable assurance that — the funds allocated to the activities described in this report are used for their intended purposes and in accordance with the principles sound financial management have been used, — the control procedures put in place provide the necessary assurance that the underlying transactions are legal and regular and that the transactions involved are dealt with appropriately allegations or suspicions of fraud, — the costs and benefits of the controls are proportionate.
Done at Luxembourg on March 26, 2020 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 70
Re-use of the following photos is permitted provided the copyright holder, the source and, where credited, the names of the photographers or architects are acknowledged: p. 2, © European Union, 2020, source: ECA.
P. 6, 32, 33, 38 (below), 41, 42, 43, 50, 58, 60, 63 and 64, © European Union, 2019, Source: ECA.
P. 15, first row, right, © European Union, 2010 / Carlos Juan.
P. 15, second row, centre, © European Union, 2013, Source: EP / Bauweraerts Didier.
p. 17, © European Union, 2013, Source: EP / Jennifer Jacquemart.
p. 19, © European Union, 2015 / Angelos Tzortzinis.
p. 21, © European Union, 2016, Source: EP / Fred Marvaux.
p. 26, left, © European Union, 2019 / Anouk Delafortrie.
p. 26, right, © European Union, 2019, Lisa Hastert.
p. 28, © European Union, 2019, Source: EP / Benoit Bourgeois.
p. 35, left, © European Union, 2019, source: EP (20191022_EP-093734A_DLL_007).
p. 35, center, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission.
p. 35, right, © European Union, 2019, source, European Council.
P. 38, top, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission, Audiovisual Service / Etienne Ansotte.
P. 62, © European Union, 2019, Source: ECA.
Architects of the buildings: Paul Noël (1988) and Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013).
If you want to use or reproduce content for which the EU has no copyright, you must obtain permission directly from the copyright holders: p. 7 and 8: Pixel perfect icons on the https://flaticon.com platform.
p. 12, from left to right: © contains modified Copernicus Sentinel data (2018) processed by GeoVille; © Shutterstock / Andrey_Popov; © Shutterstock / G-Stock Studio.
p. 13, from left to right: © Shutterstock / Antonio Guillem; © Shutterstock / Gorodenkoff; © Shutterstock / igorstevanovic.
p. 15, first row, left, © Shutterstock / Billion Photos; p. 15, first row, middle, © Shutterstock / Gorodenkoff.
p. 15, second row, left, © Shutterstock / LMWH; p. 15, second row, right, © Shutterstock / Photolines.
p. 15, last row, left to right: © Shutterstock / Syda Productions; © Shutterstock / Jenson; © Courtesy of EUROCONTROL.
p. 18, © Shutterstock / Bannafarsai_Stock.
p. 20, © Shutterstock / pisaphotography.
p. 26, middle, © MCI Benelux, 2019.
p. 39, © NIK (Najwyższa Izba Kontroli), Warsaw, 2019.
Contacting the EU Visit There are hundreds of Europe Direct information offices across the European Union.
You can find an information office near you by following this link: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en Telephone or email The Europe Direct service answers your questions about the European Union.
Contact Europe Direct — on the toll-free number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers may charge), — on the toll-free number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers may charge), — by E-mail via: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_de Information about the EU On the Internet On the Europa portal you will find information about the European Union in all official languages: https://europa.eu/european- union/index_de EU publications You can download or order EU publications – some of them free of charge – at https://publications.europa. eu/de/publications.
If you would like several copies of a free publication, contact Europe Direct or your nearest information office (see https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1952 in all official languages, can be found in EUR-Lex: https://eur-lex.europa.eu EU Open Data Via its Open Data Portal (http ://data.europa.eu/euodp/de) provides the EU with data sets.
The data can be downloaded free of charge for commercial and non-commercial purposes.
ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 QJ-AA-20-001-DE-C
DE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2013 Brief information on the audit of the EU Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2014 ISBN 978-92-872-0998-6 doi:10.2865/23970 © European Union, 2014 Reproduction is authorized provided the source is acknowledged.
EN 2013 Brief information on the EU audit Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
Foreword by the President 02 Every November, the European Court of Auditors reports on the results of its annual audit of the EU's financial management over the previous financial year .
Based on the audit evidence obtained , the Court provides assurance on the use of EU funds and highlights where the risk of EU funds not being used properly was greatest .
The reports also contain recommendations for possible improvements in EU financial management .
In this way, the Court supports the European Parliament and the Council in scrutinizing EU spending and helps ensure that accountability to EU citizens is effectively exercised .
” the most important findings in our annual reports 2013 on the implementation of the EU budget and on the European development funds are summarized and explained .
, the reports provide an insight into the extent to which the EU and national stakeholders responsible for EU financial management report accurately on the management of funds, ensuring the application of EU financial rules and the principles of economy, economy and effectiveness.
are publishing our annual reports on this budget year at an important transition period for the EU and its finances.
, in the 2014-2020 programming period now underway , a new European Parliament and Commission face both long-standing and new challenges to financial management and accountability.
The continuing pressure on EU and national finances requires careful management and control of EU funds and better forecasting of long - term funding needs.
In particular, we highlight in our reports that the Commission and Member State authorities, in their EU financial management , need to pay more attention to the fact that EU funds are used to achieve results that cannot be achieved by other means as efficiently or effectively could.
At the same time, the Court's audit results show that more can and should be done to ensure that EU spending is compliant.
The Court will welcome the opportunity to assist the new European Parliament and Commission in resolving these and other financial management and accountability issues at EU level .
To this end, based on our audit experience, we have also produced two landscape analyzes that identify the main challenges facing the EU in the areas of accountability , audit and financial management.
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors
Contents 03 Page 04 Overall results 04 Key messages 05 How EU funds are spent 15 EU funds and results delivery 18 A closer look at revenue and expenditure areas 18 Revenue 20 Agriculture: market support and direct payments 22 Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 24 Regional policy, Transport and energy 26 Employment and social affairs 28 External relations, external aid and enlargement 30 Research and other internal policies 32 Administrative and related expenditure 33 European Development Funds (EDFs) 35 Background information 35 The audit approach at a glance 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work
' ) gives an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the 2013 accounts of the European Union.
Revenue for 2013 as a whole is legal and regular.
Overall, the 2013 commitments are legal and regular.
The 2013 payments are affected by a material level of error.
Therefore, the Court gives a negative opinion on their legality and regularity.
The text of the Statement of Assurance can be found in Chapter 1 of the 2013 Annual Report. ο The Court estimates the error rate, which measures the extent of irregularities, for the 2013 payments at 4.7 %. This value is close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8%) and consistently above the materiality threshold of 2%. ο Overall, the supervisory and control systems examined were partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments, with significant divergences between Member States . ο The two most error-prone spending areas were regional policy, transport and energy, with an error rate of 6.9%, and rural development, environment, fisheries and health, with an error rate of 6.7%.
For shared management as a whole, ie including agriculture: market support and direct payments and employment and social affairs, the estimated error rate was 5.2%. ο Corrective actions and recoveries by Member State authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Overall results 05 Correct use of EU funds The EU funds for 2013 Each year the Court examines the EU's revenue and expenditure and gives its opinion on the ‐ the reliability of the accounts and the revenue ‐ and expenditure transactions with the relevant ‐ Rules and legislation are consistent.
, expenditure from the EU budget totaled 148.5 billion euros, or around 290 euros per citizen.
This expenditure corresponds to about one percent of the gross national income of the EU and accounts for about two percent of the total public expenditure of the EU Member States .
The EU budget is approved annually by the European Parliament and the Council, based on a seven-year financial framework.
Ensuring that the budget is properly spent is primarily the responsibility of the Commission.
Member States for around 80% of expenditure – particularly in the areas of agriculture and cohesion .
Where are the funds coming from?
The EU budget is financed from various sources .
The largest share relates to payments made by Member States on the basis of their gross national income (EUR 110.0 billion).
Other sources include payments by Member States based on the VAT they collect ( €14.5 billion) and customs and agricultural duties (€15.4 billion).
The annual EU budget is spent on a wide range of policy areas (see Figure 1).
The payments made serve to promote activities as diverse as research projects , training for the unemployed or agricultural production.
Overall results 06 2013 expenditure 6.9% Administrative and related expenditure 8.9% Research and other internal policies 9.4% Employment and social affairs 9.9% Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 4.2% External relations , external aid and enlargement Total expenditure in 2013 148.5 billion euros 30.4% Regional policy, transport and energy 30.3% Agriculture: market support and direct payments Audit findings for 2013 A key element of the Court's audit work is the examination of sample transactions from all parts of the EU budget are used to arrive at statistical estimates of the extent to which revenue and the various areas of expenditure are affected by error.
The results for 2013 are summarized in Chart 2 .
More information on the Court's audit approach and the estimate of the most likely error rate can be found on page 35.
Audit of transactions for the EU budget as a whole - results for 2013 Audited amount and most likely error rate Revenue Expenditure Audit conclusion 0.0% 4.7% €150 billion Not affected by material error Significantly errored 0 30 billion €60 billion €90 billion €120 billion % most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on the quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Chart 2 Chart 1
Overall results 07 For 2013, the Court concludes that revenue was not affected by material error.
( see page 36 for an explanation of regularity ).
For more information on each area of expenditure, see pages 18 to 34 and the relevant chapters of the 2013 Annual Report.
Audit of transactions by EU spending area - results for 2013 Audited amount and most likely error rate 6.9% 3.6% 3.1% 6.7% 4.6% 2.6% Spending area Employment and social affairs To a significant extent Affected by error Not affected by material error Regional policy, transport and energy Audit conclusion Agriculture: market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external aid and enlargement Expenditure on administrative and related expenditure 1.0% 0 €10 billion €20 billion €30 billion €40 billion €50 billion Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on the quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Note: The Court uses to estimate the Error rate standard statistical methods (see Annex 1.1 of Chapter 1 of the Annual Report). % Chart 3 Overall results 08 Analysis of audit results The Court estimates the error rate, which measures the extent of irregularities, for the 2013 payments at 4.7 %.
This value is close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8%) and consistently above the materiality threshold of 2% ( see Figure 4). Estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole (2007-2013) EU spending 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 6.9% 5.2% 4.8% 4.7% 3.3% 3, 7% 3.9% 2007 2008 Upper error limit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 % Estimated error Lower error limit Note: The Court uses standard statistical methods to estimate the most likely error rate.
The Court is 95% confident that the error rate for the population concerned is in the range between the lower and upper error limit.
For more details see Annex 1.1 and Figure 1.3 of Chapter 1 of the Annual Report. Diagram 4
Overall results 09 Errors, waste and fraud The Court's estimated error rate is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste.
is an estimate of funds that should not have been paid out because they were not used in accordance with applicable legislation .
Typical errors include payments for ineligible expenses or for purchases where procurement rules have not been properly applied.
Fraud is a deliberate act of deception with the aim of gaining an advantage.
The Court forwards cases encountered during our audits where we suspect fraud to OLAF (the European Union's anti - fraud office), which is responsible for conducting any further investigations in cooperation with the authorities in the Member States is responsible.
A comparison of the error rates estimated for the different spending areas is shown in Figure 5.
Higher rates in research and other internal policies and administrative and related expenditure were offset by lower rates in rural development, environment, fisheries and health, and external relations, external aid and enlargement.
As in 2012, the two most error-prone spending areas were regional policy, transport and energy, and rural development, environment, fisheries and health.
These two areas together with the other two areas of shared management (agriculture: market support and direct payments and employment and social affairs) have an estimated error rate of 5.2%.
For all other operational expenditure (most of which is managed directly by the Commission), the estimated level of error was 3.7%.
We also found an estimated level of error of 1.0 % for administrative expenditure.
Overall results 10 Comparison of the estimated error rates by EU spending area for 2012 and 2013 8% 6% 4% 2% 0 6.8% 6.9% 6.7% 2012 2013 7.9% 3.8% 3.6 % 3.2% 3.1% 4.6% 3.9% 3.3% 2.6% 0% 1.0% Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Employment and social affairs Rural development, environment , fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative and related expenditure Figure 5
Overall results 11 Breakdown of the estimated total error rate by spending area and type of error Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Employment and social affairs Research and other internal policies External relations, external aid and enlargement Administrative and related expenditure 4, 7% Incorrect declarations on agricultural land Serious breaches of procurement rules Ineligible projects, activities or beneficiaries Ineligible costs included in 1.8% the cost statements % Estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole % share of the total error rate (in percentage points) 2, 1% 1.1% 0.7% Other error types 0.3% 0.3% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% Total error rate 0.6% 1.0% 1.1% Proportion of the estimated proportion in the estimated total error rate Total error rate by error type after output evening area Diagram 6
Overall results 12 The Court analyzes the contribution of the different types of error, as well as each area of expenditure, to the overall estimated error rate ( see Figure 6).
Expenditure that did not meet the necessary conditions to be claimed under EU - funded projects accounted for the largest proportion of the estimated total error rate (inclusion of ineligible costs in the cost statements: 39% or 1.8 percentage points of the estimated total error rate - te).
In second place were projects where either the funded object/activity or the beneficiary should not have been funded under the applicable rules (ineligible projects/activities or beneficiaries: 22% or 1.1 percentage points of the estimated total error rate).
( 44% or 2.1 percentage points of the estimated total error rate).
The area of agriculture: market support and direct payments, where the volume of expenditure was almost as high, contributes about half as much to the estimated total error rate.
Corrective action has a positive impact on the error rate Member States and the Commission apply corrective action to protect the EU budget in cases of ineffective control systems or irregular expenditure .
If such corrective action had not been taken for the 2013 payments audited by the Court, the estimated total error rate would have been 6.3 % instead of 4.7 %.
However, the estimated level of error could still be further reduced to a significant extent through better application of the existing control systems and corrective actions.
The Court found that for a large proportion of the transactions affected by errors in the areas of shared management, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors before claiming reimbursement from the Commission.
For example, this would have reduced the estimated error rate in the area of regional policy, transport and energy from 6.9% to 3.9%, in the area of rural development, environment, fisheries and health from 6.7% to 2.0% and in the area of employment and social from 3.1% to 1.9%.
New challenges for the presentation of reliable financial information The reporting of the above corrective adjustments does not clearly distinguish between the main types of corrective adjustments. In addition, the information is largely provided outside the accounting system.
This makes further analysis difficult and reduces the accuracy of the figures presented in the accounts and related financial reports.
Another development is the increasing use of financial instruments to support investment in potentially economically viable projects, in the form of loans, guarantees, equity and other risk mechanisms.
Because of their complex structure, financial instruments require particular care in their valuation and recognition in accordance with internationally accepted public sector accounting principles.
Overall results 13 Steady increase in amounts to be financed from future budgets Key features of EU budgetary and financial management in 2013 include: ο a sharp increase in the volume of payments the Commission was allowed to make through amending budgets : 9.6% the initial budget; ο a sustained increase in commitments giving rise to future payments (by 2.6%), despite the high volume of payments; ο an unchanged long period (more than two years on average) between the date of the initial commitment and the date when the declarations of expenditure are accepted by the Commission; ο only 37% of the funds allocated to financial instruments had been paid to final beneficiaries by the end of 2012; ο Repayments, interest and dividends of €259 million accumulated since 2008 were not recognized as income.
What are commitments and payments?
The EU budget consists of two elements : commitments (amounts to be paid in the current or future years) and payments (covering funds disbursed in the current year).
Payments can only be made against valid funds commitments.
The annual ceilings for commitments and payments are set in the multiannual financial frameworks agreed by Council and Parliament.
The nature of EU spending programmes , particularly the long time between commitment and payment, is putting increasing pressure on future payment budgets.
This is reflected in a significantly higher budget for payments in 2013 and this trend will continue similarly in future budgets.
Overall results 14 How can budgetary and financial management In the Court's view, the Commission should ο publish more relevant information on the functioning of the correction mechanisms ( timing ‐ ‐ origin and nature) and the accuracy of the corresponding figures by recording the information ‐ within the traditional accounting systems raise; ο record and value all financial instruments and financing instruments in accordance with internationally accepted public sector accounting principles , in particular through reliable methods for determining and recognizing impairments; ο provide information on treasury funds held pending payment to final beneficiaries; ο prepare and publish a long-term cash flow forecast , updated annually; this would make it easier for stakeholders to identify future payment needs and budget priorities. be improved? Would you like to know more?
The full information on the main audit findings can be found in Chapter 1 “Statement of Assurance and related information” of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
Overall results 15 EU funds and delivery of results EU funds should be used in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (economy, efficiency and effectiveness).
Against this background, achieving good performance requires inputs (financial, human, material, organizational or regulatory resources required for program implementation ) , outputs (what the program aims to achieve), results ( immediate caused changes in those directly involved or direct beneficiaries) and impacts (longer-term societal changes at least partly attributable to the EU action) .
The Court assesses these aspects in its performance audits.
Not enough emphasis on performance The use of EU funds - in the 2007 - 2013 programming period - was focused on absorption (use it or lose it) and compliance with the law rather than good performance.
When selecting the projects for EU funding , for example , the need to use the available EU funds was the top priority. Second came the need for compliance, and only third, and only to a limited extent, was the achievement of outcomes and impact.
This lack of focus on performance is a key weakness in the way much of the EU budget is structured .
According to the Commission, in the 2014-2020 programming period the focus is more on performance , with performance reserves being the main incentive.
Through these reserves, the Commission will hold back 6% of the funds allocated to individual Member States until performance is found to be satisfactory.
In practice, however, input and output indicators will continue to largely determine the release of funds .
The Commission will only use result indicators in a few areas.
Whether the performance reserves work more effectively will depend on the success of the Commission in negotiating appropriate targets and milestones at the beginning of the programming period and in obtaining accurate, reliable and up-to-date data from Member States to determine whether the targets were reached.
The reporting framework is not appropriate for the desired performance culture Performance reporting is split into several general reports at the general budget level.
do not provide information on progress towards the achievement of the Europe 2020 strategy objectives nor a comprehensive overview of the results in terms of EU added value .
, the fourth evaluation report is a step in the right direction in that it attempts to establish a link between the main financial programs and the available performance information relevant to the Europe 2020 strategy.
At the level of the individual Directorates-General of the Commission, performance targets are set for the policy areas in their respective areas of responsibility in the management plans. Thereafter, it will be reported in the Annual Activity Reports.
The Court's analysis of the Management Plans and Annual Activity Reports of the Commission's Directorates-General shows that assurance is limited to regularity and internal control aspects and does not address performance-related aspects.
In addition , the objectives were too general to be used for management purposes and the indicators selected are not always suitable for measuring performance.
Overall results 16 The added value of EU spending is not always demonstrated In the 19 special reports adopted by the Court in 2013, performance audits cover a wide range of issues and assess whether EU intervention is – in line with the principles of sound financial management (economy, efficiency and effectiveness).
to be learned from our special reports adopted in 2013 for the preparation of the new programs and projects for the 2014-2020 programming period and found that : ο EU added value could not always be ensured. ο In several cases there was potential deadweight, ie the beneficiaries would have carried out the activity even without EU funding.
Example: European Globalization Adjustment Fund The European Globalization Adjustment Fund compensates workers affected by mass redundancies.
We found that a third of the funding was used for measures that would have been paid by Member States anyway (Special Report No 7/2013 “Does the European Globalization Adjustment Fund have EU added value in the reintegration of redundant workers - accomplished?").
Example: Risk-Sharing Finance Facility The Commission had not sufficiently demonstrated that the EU funds made available under the Risk - Sharing Finance Facility (instrument designed to facilitate access to third-party finance in the field of research) would lead to increased investment than the beneficiaries would do without public money (Special Report No. 2/2013 "Did the Commission ensure efficient implementation of the Seventh Research Framework Programme?").
Overall results 17 Most of the Court's recommendations have been implemented The Court's follow-up to recommendations resulting from performance audits is a key part of the accountability cycle and can support the Commission's effective implementation of the recommendations contained in the reports.
The Court analyzed how the Commission ‐ followed up on recommendations from eight special reports adopted between 2007 and 2010 and found that the Commission had either fully or largely implemented 79 % of the recommendations .
The Court recommends that the Commission: ο The Commission should streamline its performance reporting framework in the next revision of the Financial Regulation. ο The Commission should ensure that the evaluation report includes an executive summary containing all available information on progress towards the Europe 2020 targets. ο The Commission should further strengthen its performance management and reporting system to take accountability for sound financial management and the contribution of the EU budget to policy achievements. Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's assessment of performance can be found in Chapter 10 "EU - Budget and results delivery" of the Annual report on the implementation of the EU - Budget for the financial year 2013 .
All special reports are available on the Court's website: http://www.eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/AuditReportsOpinions.aspx.
on the basis of Member States ' Gross National Income (GNI) and VAT collected by Member States accounted for 74% and 10% of revenues in 2013, respectively.
Import duties and the production levy on sugar , collected by the authorities in the Member States on behalf of the EU, accounted for 10% of EU revenues. The remaining 6% comes from other income.
Explanation of EU revenue audit EU revenue , which is based on GNI and VAT, is calculated based on macroeconomic statistics and estimates provided by Member States.
audit of the regularity of the underlying transactions carried out by the Court relates to the processing of this data by the Commission, but not to the original collection of this data by the authorities in the Member States.
Consequently, the Court's audit conclusion concerns the impact that any errors made by the Commission have on the total amount of revenue.
established entitlements submitted by the Member States .
These data are not sufficiently harmonized among Member States.
A reservation is a tool to keep open the possibility of rectification for a disputed element in GNI data transmitted by a Member State .
There is a general caveat regarding the Greek GNI data for the years 2008 and 2009 as the data are still based on preliminary estimates.
This aspect is part of a problem affecting Greece's national accounts .
A closer look at revenue and expenditure areas 19 Member States' customs authorities carry out controls to verify importers' compliance with customs and import regulations.
The Court found that the quality of these checks varied greatly between the Member States visited .
This can lead to importers deciding to declare goods in a Member State other than that in which they are established in order to reduce the likelihood of an inspection and make it more difficult to collect the duties due.
An example where this practice seems to apply is the case of an importer who unloaded Chinese textiles in Hamburg (Germany), transported them to Rotterdam, where they were declared for free circulation, and then transported them to Poland for final sale to spend.
Our recommendations We recommend that the Commission: ο The Commission should encourage Member States to harmonize their methodologies for calculating data on unobserved economic activity. ο The Commission should draw up a detailed action plan with clear milestones and closely monitor its implementation to address the problems in the preparation of the national accounts of Greece . ο The Commission should set minimum standards for controls by Member States' customs authorities to allow better targeting of high-risk importers. Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU revenue can be found in Chapter 2 of the Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 .
20 This spending area includes the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), one of the two main instruments of the EU's Common Agricultural Policy.
The aim of this policy is to increase the productivity of agriculture , to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, to stabilize the markets, to ensure supplies and to ensure that supplies are made to consumers at reasonable prices.
Expenditure is under shared management with Member States.
Yes Estimated error rate : 3.6% (2012: 3.8%) Control systems examined: Partially effective Most of the expenditure in this area is calculated on the basis of agricultural land.
Many quantifiable errors are the result of inaccuracies in beneficiaries' claims, the most common being over-declarations of area (see example).
- claiming aid for ineligible land In Germany, Ireland, Greece, France, Poland and Romania*, some areas declared as permanent grassland and paid for, were in fact fully or partially covered with ineligible vegetation ( dense bushes or trees).
No EU aid should have been paid for these ineligible areas .
In Greece, this error occurred because such areas were classified as eligible grassland and registered as such in the agricultural parcel identification system. * Note on the use of Member States in the examples: the sampling approach used by the Court means that transactions are not audited in every Member State, beneficiary country and/or region every year.
The error examples are intended to illustrate the most common types of errors.
They do not form the basis for any conclusions on the Member States, beneficiary countries and/or regions concerned.
In all EAGF direct aid schemes, recipients of EU aid are legally obliged to comply with "cross-compliance" relating to environmental protection, human, animal and plant health and animal welfare and land conservation in good agricultural and environmental condition.
If farmers do not comply with these obligations, their subsidies will be reduced.
The Court's audits found non-compliance in 25% of the transactions related to these commitments.
In a significant number of transactions affected by error, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before requesting reimbursement from the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before declaring the expenditure to the Commission, the estimated level of error in this area would have been 2.5%.
( IACS) in four Member States ( Germany, Ireland, France and Italy) revealed ο weaknesses in the management control procedures and the quality of the databases in three Member States - deficiencies (Ireland, France and Italy), ο weaknesses in the quality of on - the - spot checks in two Member States (Germany and Italy), ο weaknesses in the procedures for recovering unduly paid amounts in two Member States (Ireland and Italy).
Overall, despite the weaknesses revealed by the audit, IACS makes a significant contribution to preventing errors in the expenditure covered by this system.
In the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 or later, producer groups in the fruit and vegetable sector can receive EU subsidies .
In order to be recognized as a producer group, certain conditions regarding the number and relative size of member producers must be met.
The Court found that nine of the 40 audited producer groups in Poland did not meet these conditions.
In its Annual Activity Report for 2013, the Commission reported that it had reserved an amount at risk of 25% of the total expenditure under the measure concerned in Poland.
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations: ο The Commission and the Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that the full potential of IACS is realised. To do this, they should ensure, for example, that eligibility and the size of agricultural parcels are correctly assessed and recorded. ο The Commission should monitor the remedial actions related to the shortcomings in EU subsidies in favor of producer groups in Poland. Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of the EU ‐ spending on market support and direct payments in agriculture can be found in chapter 3 of the annual report on the implementation of the EU ‐ budget for the financial year 2013 .
22 This spending area includes the policy areas “Rural Development”, “Climate and Environment Policy ” , “Maritime Affairs and Fisheries” and “Health and Consumer Protection”.
Of the payments in this area, 88% go to the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development ( EAFRD).
Expenditure is under shared management with Member States .
The EAFRD co-finances rural development expenditure within relevant Member State programmes.
to farmers in areas with natural handicaps) and non-area-related measures (such as farm modernization and basic service facilities for the rural economy and Population).
Yes Estimated error rate: 6.7% (2012: 7.9%) Control systems examined: Partially effective Most errors were due to non-compliance with the eligibility conditions. In particular, this concerned the following conditions: agri - environmental commitments (see example), special requirements for investment projects and procurement regulations.
Example: non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments A farmer in Sardinia (Italy) was compensated for not using environmentally harmful pesticides when growing artichokes.
During its on -the - spot inspection , the Court found that the beneficiary had used such plant protection products 12 times during the period audited.
Therefore, the payment for a subsidy was not eligible.
Similar cases of non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments were also uncovered in the Piedmont region (Italy), Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland and Romania.
A closer look at the areas of revenue and expenditure 23 In a significant number of transactions affected by error, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before requesting reimbursement from the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before declaring the expenditure to the Commission, the estimated level of error in this area would have been 2.0%.
The Court's examination of rural development control systems revealed: ο weaknesses in controls on eligibility requirements, e.g. B. Non - detection of ineligible VAT amounts or risk of double financing (in seven of the eight Member States examined – Germany, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Malta, Romania and Slovenia; Poland was the exception) ; ο insufficient assessment of reasonableness of costs (in all four Member States examined – Italy, Latvia , Poland and Romania); ο deficiencies in the design and implementation of cross-compliance controls (in all four Member States examined – Czech Republic, Spain, Italy and Malta); according to the cross - compliance obligations , the beneficiaries must meet specific conditions, such as environmental or social standards , in order to be eligible for aid; ο Deficiencies in controls of public procurement rules (in all three Member States examined - Italy, Latvia - and Poland; see example).
Example: Poor Member State controls on procurement rules In Latvia, the paying agency was the beneficiary of an EAFRD grant of €2 million to finance its outsourced IT system. This contract was subject to the regulations for the award of public contracts .
The Court found that several serious errors had occurred in the procurement of the IT system and the subsequent maintenance of the data.
, the Paying Agency used a negotiated procedure rather than an open or restricted procedure as required by the legislation .
funding due to non - compliance with the prescribed procedures .
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations for rural development: ο Member States should improve the implementation of their existing administrative controls by using all relevant information available to paying agencies.
In this way, the majority of errors could be detected and corrected. ο Member States should ensure that the action plans to address the high estimated error rate in rural development cover all regions and take into account all measures, in particular investment measures, and that they are consistent with the Commission's audit findings and the Court into account. Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU spending on rural development, environment , fisheries and health can be found in Chapter 4 of the Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 .
A closer look at the revenue and expenditure areas of regional policy, transport and energy €45.5 billion Subject of our audit 24 This audit covered regional policy (accounting for 96% of payments in this area of expenditure), funded mainly by the European Regional Development Fund ( ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF) is financed .
The aim of regional policy is to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the European Union by reducing the development gap between the various regions.
Expenditure on regional policies is under shared management between the Commission and Member States , with projects co-financed under approved spending programmes.
The remaining 4% of this audited spending area is in the transport and energy policy areas.
The aim of transport and energy policy is to provide European citizens and businesses with safe, sustainable and competitive transport and energy systems and services .
This expenditure is managed directly by the Commission.
Yes Estimated most likely error rate: 6.9 % (2012: 6.8 %) Control systems examined: Partially effective The Court found serious errors in the area of public procurement, accounting for 39 % of the Court's estimated error rate .
The cumulative order value of the 122 audited procurement procedures is estimated at 4.2 billion euros.
Example: Unjustified Private Contracts Contracts for additional construction work at the passenger terminal of an airport in Germany were awarded private contracts to the original contractor.
This additional work was necessary because of poor preparation , planning and execution of the project and not because of unforeseen circumstances .
In such cases, direct award is not permitted, which is why the additional work should have been put out to tender.
Similar cases of unjustified direct award taking place have been found in projects in Belgium , the Czech Republic, elsewhere in Germany, and in Spain, Italy and Sweden.
's auditors also check compliance with EU state aid rules.
Unlawful state aid gives the beneficiary an unfair advantage and therefore affects the internal market.
Errors related to State aid accounted for 17% of the estimated error rate in this area (see example).
Example: State aid for a viable project A small or medium-sized enterprise (SMEs) in Slovenia was granted aid for research and development activities in the automotive industry.
However, the SME was fully owned by large companies and carried out its research activities exclusively for them.
Due to stricter rules on public funding for large companies, the company was not entitled to all the funding.
Similar cases have been identified in Bulgaria and Hungary.
In a significant number of transactions affected by errors, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors before requesting reimbursement from the Commission .
If this information had been used to correct errors before declaring the expenditure to the Commission, the estimated level of error in this area would have been 3.9%.
The Court's auditors also found that in 2013 financial instruments continued to show low rates of disbursement to final recipients .
The funds in question support companies or urban development projects through equity investments, loans or guarantees.
The funds are endowed with funds when their legal structure is in place and then use these funds to support projects.
A total of 940 financial instruments have been set up in 25 Member States, which are endowed with around 12.6 billion euros.
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ο The Commission should require Member States to explicitly confirm in their management declarations: ‐ the effectiveness of the primary controls carried out by the managing authority and the certifying authority. ο The Commission should, as required by the Financial Regulation , carry out a thorough assessment of the ongoing problem related to the primary controls carried out by authorities in the Member States during the programming period 2007-2013 . ο The Commission should analyze the reasons behind the frequency of breaches of EU State aid rules . ο The Commission should reduce the persistent delays in disbursing EU funds through financial instruments . Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU spending in the area of regional policy, transport and energy can be found in Chapter 5 of the Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 .
A closer look at the employment and social affairs revenue and expenditure area EUR 16.2 billion Subject of our audit 26 The audit covered the employment and social affairs expenditure area, which forms part of the EU's cohesion policy.
The main objectives of spending in this area are the fight against unemployment , the development of human resources and the promotion of labor market integration.
Employment and social policies are mainly implemented through the European Social Fund (ESF): 98% of the payments made in 2013 in this spending area came from this fund.
The ESF supports investment in human capital in the form of training and other employment measures.
In a private school in Portugal, the full salary of the headmaster was charged to the EU project, although he also had other duties to perform .
In addition, the upper limit for the co-financing of salaries was not observed.
The Court made similar findings for projects in Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
In a significant number of transactions affected by error, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before requesting a refund from the Commission .
If this information had been used to correct errors before declaring the expenditure to the Commission, the estimated level of error in this area would have been 1.8%.
A closer look at the revenue and expenditure areas 27 In 2009, on the Court's recommendation and with the aim of reducing the likelihood of error and the administrative burden for project promoters, the use of lump sums and flat rates was extended instead of the reimbursement of 'actual costs'.
The Court's 2013 audit did not find any quantifiable errors specifically related to the application of lump sums and flat rates.
This suggests that projects whose costs are reported using such payment options are less error prone.
Our recommendations We recommend that the Commission: ο The Commission should ask Member States to strengthen controls on procurement rules, costs not related to the project or projects with no EU added value . ο The Commission should ensure that Member States address the issue that EU projects claim higher rates of staff costs than nationally funded projects. ο The Commission should ensure that Member States have taken into account all the possibilities for simplification provided for in the regulations for the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020 . Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU spending in the area of employment and social affairs can be found in Chapter 6 of the Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 .
28 This spending area includes spending on external relations, development and humanitarian aid, and on actions in favor of candidate and acceding countries.
Development projects are spread across more than 150 countries worldwide and implementing organizations vary significantly in terms of size and experience .
Funding of projects from EU funds is subject to compliance with conditions laid down in specific funding agreements, as well as compliance with other regulations , such as those relating to tendering and contracting procedures.
Expenditure is managed either directly by the Commission's Directorates-General – through the Commission's central services in Brussels or the EU Delegations in the beneficiary countries – or jointly with international organisations.
Yes Estimated error rate: 2.6% (2012: 3.3%) Control systems examined: Partially effective Most errors concerned ineligible expenditure incurred at final beneficiary level such as ‐ expenditure incurred outside the eligibility period, inclusion of ineligible expenditure in project costs ‐ Claims (e.g. VAT, unjustified staff costs or overheads) and expenses not supported by adequate supporting documents.
The Commission validated pre-accession expenditure totaling €150 million, although there was no documentary evidence that the expenditure had been incurred and was eligible.
The amounts validated were based on the Commission 's own estimates rather than on incurred, paid and accepted costs supported by supporting evidence .
After the Court discovered this systematic error, the Commission corrected the relevant transactions in the accounts.
Example: unspent expenditure The Commission signed a €9.5 million agreement with the United Nations Development Program to promote social development in Moldova.
In 2013, the Commission accepted for reimbursement €1.8 million worth of contracts for which no underlying expenditure had yet been incurred.
- General EuropeAid manages the bulk of EU expenditure in the area of external action , which is funded from the budget.
The systems examined by EuropeAid are rated as partially effective.
In May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address the main shortcomings identified .
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ο The Commission should ensure that instructions to staff reflect that the final settlement of expenditure is based only on actual expenditure and should not be based on own estimates.
The Commission has already agreed to amend its procedure for clearing expenditure accordingly. Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure in the area of external relations, external assistance and enlargement can be found in Chapter 7 of the Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 .
30 The most important component of this expenditure area are research and innovation projects , which accounted for 7.7 billion euros in payments in 2013.
The other internal policies concern expenditure on a range of policy objectives, including education and culture, security, migration and measures to deal with the consequences of the financial crisis.
Most of the expenditure is managed directly by the Commission .
, the Commission reimburses costs declared by beneficiaries in project cost statements.
Errors arise when beneficiaries report ineligible costs that are not detected by the control systems before reimbursement by the Commission .
35% of the estimated error rate is due to incorrectly calculated or ineligible staff costs.
Among other things, the estimated and not the actual personnel costs as well as working hours that were not used for the project are claimed.
Apart from non-compliance with spending rules, reimbursement of ineligible costs also hinders the successful achievement of policy objectives and consequently limits the added value of EU funding (see example).
Example: Ineligible expenditure reduces EU - added value The EU provides funding to ensure efficient and effective controls at the EU - external borders.
The Court examined a project in Spain consisting in the purchase of four helicopters, 75% of which would be used for external border surveillance and control.
However, the Court found that only 25 % of the helicopters' operating hours were devoted to this purpose.
As a result, the EU should only have paid 25% of the cost of the helicopters, not the 75% actually covered.
A Closer Look at Revenue and Expenditure Areas 31 As part of the research expenditure control system, the Commission checks progress reports and cost statements on funded projects before payments are made.
The Court found that the Commission does not always apply the procedures consistently, which can hamper the efficiency of the programs and increase the administrative burden for beneficiaries.
Our recommendations We recommend that the Commission: ο For the new 2014-2020 programs in the field of research (Horizon 2020) and other internal policies, the Commission should provide beneficiaries and Member State authorities with up- to-date, consistent and clear guidance on : provide the eligibility rules and control provisions. ο The Commission should make its control activities more risk-based, by focusing audits on high-risk beneficiaries (e.g. entities less experienced with EU funding ) and reducing the burden of controls on lower-risk beneficiaries.
Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU spending on research and other internal policies can be found in Chapter 8 of the Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 .
A closer look at the revenue and expenditure areas 32 Administrative and related expenditure €10.6 billion Subject of our audit Administrative and related expenditure comprises the expenditure of the EU institutions and other bodies.
These are the Commission, Parliament, the European External Action Service (EEAS), the European Council and the Council of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the data protection officer.
Expenditure on staff (salaries, allowances and pensions) accounts for 60% of the expenditure area; the remainder is spent on buildings, equipment, energy, communications and information technology.
's audits of the agencies and other decentralized bodies of the European Union are covered in specific annual reports, which are published separately, including an executive summary .
No Estimated error rate: 1.0% (2012: 0.0%) Control systems examined: Effective The examination of most control systems did not reveal any serious deficiencies.
However, the Court finds that errors repeatedly occur in payments of salaries and allowances by the Commission and the EEAS. Likewise, the procurement procedures of the EU delegations (which report to the EEAS) show weaknesses .
Our recommendations The Court recommends that: ο The Commission and the EEAS should take further steps to ensure that the parts of staff files that affect the payment of salaries and allowances are up to date. ο The EEAS should support and guide the EU delegations in relation to procurement procedures .
Full information on the Court's audit of administrative and related expenditure can be found in Chapter 9 of the Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 .
Closer examination of the revenue and expenditure areas European Development Fund (EDF) EUR 2.6 billion Subject of our audit 33 Within the framework of the EDF, the European Union grants funds for development cooperation with the countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean (ACP - countries ) and the Overseas Countries and Territories ( OCT).
, sustainable development and the integration of the ACP states and OCTs into the world economy are to be promoted.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States. They are governed by their own financial regulation and managed by the European Commission outside the general budget of the EU.
The environment in which the external assistance financed by the EDFs is implemented is fraught with risk, in particular due to the geographically dispersed activities and the lack of institutional and administrative capacity in partner countries.
Our findings Reliability of the accounts of the EDFs: The 2013 accounts of the EDFs fairly present the assets and liabilities of the EDFs, the results of their operations, their cash flows and changes in net assets as a whole .
No Control systems examined: Partially effective EDF - commitments to a significant extent affected by errors?
Yes Estimated error rate: 3.4% (2012: 3.0%) Non-compliance with procurement rules accounted for around half of the estimated error rate (see example).
Another significant source of error is the lack of evidence to support expenditure.
Example: non-compliance by the beneficiary with procurement rules The Court examined a tender for IT equipment for a business information centre; funding came from a micro and small business support programme .
The examination showed that the contract was not awarded to the bidder with the lowest price offer, although the lowest price was the award criterion .
The error was not detected by the auditor who carried out an accounting audit of the program in accordance with the relevant framework contract with the Commission.
A Closer Look at Revenue and Expenditure Areas 34 The EDF also grants budget support, where payments go directly to a developing country's budget if specific conditions are met.
The Court found errors in transactions related to budget support where the eligibility had been incorrectly assessed and the wrong exchange rate used to convert the payment into local currency.
The Commission's Directorate-General for EuropeAid not only manages the majority of expenditure from the EU budget related to external assistance , but also almost all expenditure made under the European Development Funds ( EDFs).
The systems examined by EuropeAid are rated as partially effective.
However, in May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address the main shortcomings identified.
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ο The Commission should recover interest on pre-financing. ο The Commission should revise the quantification of the benefits of the controls carried out. ο The Commission should report on progress in implementing the action plan to address deficiencies in the control system .
Full information on the Court's audit of the European Development Funds can be found in the Annual Report on the activities of the eighth, ninth and tenth European Development Funds ( EDFs) for the financial year 2013.
Background information 35 The audit approach at a glance The Court's opinions in the Statement of Assurance are based on objective evidence obtained in particular through audit procedures carried out in accordance with international auditing standards .
The EU budget is complex.
The Commission Directorates-General initiate hundreds of thousands of accounting entries each year , based on information from many different sources (including Member States).
The Court checks that the accounting procedures are working properly and that the resulting accounting data is complete, correctly recorded and properly presented. ο Assessment of the accounting system to determine whether it provides a sound basis for reliable (complete and accurate) data. ο Review of key accounting procedures to determine whether they are working correctly. ο Analytical checks of accounting data to determine whether they are presented consistently and appear reasonable. ο Direct examination of a sample of accounting entries to determine whether the underlying transactions actually exist and are correctly recorded . ο Auditing the financial statements to determine whether they fairly present the financial position. Background information 36 Regularity of transactions Are the revenue transactions underlying the EU accounts and the payment transactions1 recorded as expenditure in compliance with the relevant rules? ο Transactions are sampled from all parts of the EU budget using statistical methods , which the Court's auditors use as a basis for detailed audits. ο The transactions sampled are thoroughly checked, usually on-site at the final recipients ( e.g. a farmer, a research institute, a company carrying out public works or services) in order to obtain direct evidence to ensure that the transaction is caused by an event, is properly recorded and complies with the regulations governing the relevant payments . ο Errors are analyzed and classified as quantifiable or non-quantifiable. ο By extrapolating the quantifiable errors, the effects of the errors are calculated in the form of a " most likely " error rate (estimated error rate). ο For the purpose of formulating the Court's opinion, the estimated level of error is related to a materiality threshold of 2%. ο A number of control systems are assessed to determine whether they are effective in ensuring the legality and regularity of the transactions under them. ο Other relevant information such as annual activity reports and reports from other auditors are taken into account. ο All audit findings are discussed with both Member State authorities and the Commission to ensure that the facts are correct. ο The Court expresses its opinions on the basis of the procedures performed and the results obtained.
1 Payments recorded as expenditure are interim payments, final payments and cleared advances.
The implementation of the EU budget makes millions of payments to beneficiaries within the EU and around the world.
Most of this expenditure is managed by the Member States.
out direct audits of revenue and payments recorded as expenditure and assesses the systems by which the payments are processed and controlled.
For more information on the process of auditing the Statement of Assurance , see ‐ Annex 1.1 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
Background information 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the independent auditing body of the European Union based in Luxembourg.
It employs around 900 staff of all EU nationalities , made up of auditors and staff in horizontal services.
, it has raised awareness of the importance of EU financial management and contributed to its improvement.
The Court's audit reports and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain.
Our results are used to hold accountable those responsible for the management of the EU budget , particularly in the context of the discharge process.
This is mainly the Commission, but the other EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies are also affected.
Member States also play an important role in shared management.
Our main tasks: ο Financial and compliance audits, mainly in relation to the Statement of Assurance; ο performance audits on topics selected to ensure that we achieve the greatest possible impact with our work ; ο Opinions on legislation related to budgetary management and other important issues.
We aim to use our resources to strike the right balance between our different areas of activity in order to achieve sound results and appropriate coverage of the different areas of the EU budget .
Background information 38 Our results We present the following results: ο annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Funds; the annual reports mainly include the opinions and findings of the Statement of Assurance and are published in November of each year ; ο specific annual reports containing the audit opinions on the accounts of each agency and other EU body; 53 reports to be published in 2014; ο special reports on selected audit topics, published throughout the year; these are mainly performance audits; about 25 reports to be published in 2014; ο Opinions used by the European Parliament and the Council when adopting EU legislation that has a significant impact on financial management; six opinions to be published in 2014; ο Landscape analyzes on selected EU policies - analyzing the major challenges and long-term trends; two such analyzes are to be published in 2014; ο the annual activity report , which contains information and explanations about our activities in the relevant year.
With our work we contribute to raising awareness and transparency about EU financial management by providing assurance on the state of financial management and making recommendations for further improvements.
This is in the interest of the citizens of the European Union.
Information on the Court's audits of the agencies and other decentralized bodies of the European Union can be found in their respective specific annual reports for the financial year 2013, which are available on the Court 's website.
The European Court of Auditors is the EU's independent external audit body - guardian of EU finances In its annual reports on the EU budget and the European Development Funds, the Court issues an audit opinion (statement of assurance) on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the accounts on which they are based processes.
This brief information provides an overview of the most important findings and conclusions.
The full text of the reports is available on the Court's website and is published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
2 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereafter "the Agency") based in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
The main task of the agency is to support the national regulatory authorities in fulfilling the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and - where necessary - to coordinate the actions of these authorities.
As part of the Regulation on the Integrity and Transparency of the Wholesale Energy Market (REMIT Regulation)2, the agency, together with the national regulatory authorities, is given additional tasks with regard to the monitoring of the European wholesale energy market3.
With regard to the financial year 2011, the period from 8 March to 31 December 2011 was therefore examined.
COMMENTS ON THE STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. The Court's audit approach includes analytical procedures, direct transaction testing and an assessment of key controls of the Agency's supervisory and control systems.
1 2 3 OJ
L 211 of 14.8.2009, p. 1. Regulation (EU) No. 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011, OJ.
OJ L 326, 08.12.2011, p. 1. The responsibilities and activities of the Agency are summarized in the Annex for information purposes.
3 STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 4. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court declares the Agency's annual accounts4, which comprise the "Annual Accounts"5 and the "Accounts for the Budget"6 for the financial year ended 31 December 2011, and legality and regularity of the transactions on which this invoice is based.
Responsibility of management 5. In his capacity as authorizing officer, the director is responsible for implementing the budget in revenue and expenditure in accordance with the financial regulation of the agency and within the limits of the appropriations7.
The Director is responsible for putting in place8 the organizational structure and the internal management and control systems and procedures necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements9 that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error A report on the budgetary and financial management for the financial year in question is attached to the annual accounts and contains additional information on the budgetary and financial management.
The financial statements comprise the balance sheet and economic outturn account, the cash flow table, the statement of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other notes.
The relevant provisions in Chapters 1 and 2 of Title VII of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 2343/2002, last amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 652/2008 ( OJ
ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
Auditor's responsibility 6. Responsibility of the Court, on the basis of its audit, to provide the European Parliament and the Council10 with a statement of reliability as to the reliability of the Agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them.
7. The Court conducted its audit in accordance with the IFAC International Standards on Auditing and Codes of Conduct and the INTOSAI International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions.
Those standards require the Court to plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the Agency's accounts are free from material misstatement and that the transactions underlying them are legal and regular.
8. An audit includes the performance of audit procedures to obtain audit evidence for the amounts and other disclosures contained in the annual financial statements and for the legality and regularity of the transactions on which they are based.
The choice of audit procedures is at the discretion of the auditor. This includes assessing the risks of material misstatement, whether intentional or unintentional, in the financial statements and of material non-compliance with European Union law in the underlying transactions, whether intentional or unintentional.
In assessing those risks, the auditor considers the internal control system relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements and the supervisory and control systems put in place to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions 5 in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances are.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
9. The Court is of the opinion that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as a basis for the audit opinions below.
Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 10.In the Court's opinion, the annual accounts of the Agency11 present its financial position as at 31 December 2011 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year then ended in accordance with its financial regulation and those of the Accounting Officer of the accounting rules12 adopted by the Commission in all material respects as a whole appropriately.
11 12 The final accounts were prepared on 19 June 2012 and received by the Court on 2 July 2012.
The final accounts, consolidated with the annual accounts of the Commission, are published in the Official Journal of the European Union by 15 November of the following year.
The annual accounts are available at the following internet addresses: http://eca.europa.eu or http://ww.acer.europa.eu/.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, in the case of transactions for which IPSAS standards are not available, on the International Accounting Standards (IAS) or the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In addition, the payment rate as a percentage of commitments was low at 41% each for Title II and Title III.
The high levels of unspent appropriations and carry-overs made, as well as the low payment rate, indicate deficiencies in budget planning and implementation and breach the budgetary principle of annuality.
OTHER COMMENTS 14. The transparency of recruitment procedures needs improvement.
For example, the vacancy notices did not indicate the maximum number of candidates to be placed on a reserve list, nor did they contain any information on appeals.
7 the written and oral tests and their respective weightings were not prepared before the applications were examined.
15.In 2011, the Agency paid a daily subsistence allowance of 10 839 euro to seconded experts who were nationals of the country where the Agency is located.
This payment goes against the rules on secondment of national experts adopted by the Management Board of the Agency, according to which only temporary staff who are not nationals of the Member State in which they are employed are entitled to daily subsistence allowances.
This Report was adopted by Chamber IV, headed by Mr Louis GALEA, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting of 5 September 2012.
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
8 Annex Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Areas of competence of the Union under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Areas of competence of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713 /2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Regulation (EU) No. 838/2010 of the Commission; Regulation (EU) No. 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Powers and activities The European Parliament and the Council shall adopt in accordance with the ordinary Legislative procedures and, after consultation of the Economic and Social Committee, measures to approximate the laws and regulations of the Member States which have as their object the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
The Union's energy policy shall, in a spirit of solidarity between Member States in the context of the completion or functioning of the internal market and taking into account the need to preserve and improve the environment, aim to: (a) ensure the functioning of the energy market; b) ensuring security of energy supply in the Union; c) promoting energy efficiency and energy savings and developing new and renewable energy sources; and d) promoting the interconnection of energy networks.
The European Parliament and the Council, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, adopt the measures necessary to achieve the objectives.
These measures are adopted after consultation of the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Objectives The purpose of the Agency is to support the national regulatory authorities in fulfilling the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and - where necessary - to coordinate their actions.
Tasks - Supplementing and coordinating the work of the national regulatory authorities, - Participation in the development of regulations for European networks, - Under certain conditions, making binding individual decisions on the modalities for access and the operational security of cross-border infrastructures, - Advising the European institutions on energy-related issues, - Monitoring of the developments in the energy markets and corresponding reporting, - Preparation of a proposal to the EU Commission for the annual compensation amount for cross-border infrastructures within the framework of the ITC mechanism, - Cooperation with the national regulatory authorities, the ESMA, the competent financial authorities of the Member States and where appropriate, national competition authorities to monitor wholesale energy markets, - assess the functioning and transparency of different categories of marketplaces and different hands lsarten, - Making recommendations to the Commission on market rules, transaction records, trade orders, standards and procedures that could improve market integrity and the functioning of the internal market.
Management Board Composition: The Management Board consists of two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
Each member has a deputy.
Responsibilities: The Management Board adopts the Agency's annual work programme, adopts its budget and oversees implementation.
Director Governance The Director will be appointed following a favorable opinion from the Board of Regulators on the basis of ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
Board of Regulators Composition: The Board of Regulators consists of a senior representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a non-voting representative of the Commission.
Each member has an alternate appointed by each Member State's national regulatory authority.
Tasks: - The Board of Regulators submits opinions to the Director on opinions, recommendations and decisions that are under consideration for adoption. - He guides the Director in carrying out his duties. - He gives an opinion to the Management Board on the candidate to be appointed Director. - He approves the Agency's work programme.
External control Court of Auditors.
Discharge authority Parliament on a recommendation from the Council.
Headcount on December 31, 2011 Approved: 40, occupied: 39, other permanent posts: 12. Total: 39, of which are attributable to - operational activities: 28, - administrative and supporting activities: 11. - 5 framework guidelines (electricity: framework guideline for grid connection, Framework Guideline on Capacity Allocation and Congestion Management and Framework Guideline on System Operation; Gas: Framework Guideline on the Capacity Allocation Mechanisms for the European Gas Transmission Network and Framework Guideline on Balancing Quantity Deviations in the Transmission Networks); organization of public consultations in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 including workshops; - Opinions on the statutes, the list of members and the rules of procedure of the European Grouping of Transmission System Operators (ENTSO Electricity) and the European Grouping of Transmission System Operators (ENTSO Gas); - Adoption of the opinion on the Union-wide ten-year network development plan of the ENTSO Gas; - Adoption of the opinion on the work program 2012 of the ENTSO Electricity; - Data requirements and indicators for monitoring according to Article 11 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009; official start of operations (March 3, 2011) and launch of the Agency's website; - Establishment of two Agency Working Groups (Electricity Working Group and Gas Working Group) and adoption of the working group rules; - Taking over the coordination function for the activities of the regional initiatives from the Group of European Regulators for Electricity and Gas (ERGEG); - New responsibilities for the Agency arising from the entry into force of the Regulation on Wholesale Energy Market Integrity and Transparency on 28 December 2011; Seminar on November 28, 2011; - Submission of guidance on the application of the definitions set out in Article 2 of the REMIT Regulation (20 December 2011); Creation of a web platform for receiving reports of delayed disclosure of inside information or suspected violations of the ban on market abuse by market participants and persons professionally arranging transactions.
Source: Agency information. ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ACER - Agence de coopération des régulateurs de l'énergie THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 13. During its first year of operation, ACER had to recruit a large part of its staff, which caused problems and resulted in vacancies were occupied late; this was clearly reflected in the implementation rate of the Agency's budget.
This also affected the estimated procurement needs and resulted in procurement processes being concentrated towards the end of the year; thus, large carry-overs became necessary to meet the legal and budgetary commitments made.
With most posts filled at the beginning of 2012, ACER is now in a significantly better position to carry out its assigned responsibilities and associated budget.
14. ACER acknowledges the validity of the Court's observations and has already taken remedial action.
15. ACER takes note of the justification of the preliminary determination and has already stopped paying daily subsistence allowances to Slovenian SNEs.
2 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter "the Agency", also "ACER") located in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
As part of the Regulation on the Integrity and Transparency of the Wholesale Energy Market (REMIT Regulation)2, the Agency and the national regulatory authorities were given additional tasks with regard to the monitoring of the European wholesale energy market3.
NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 2. The Court's audit approach includes analytical procedures, direct transaction testing and an assessment of key controls of the Agency's supervisory and control systems.
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court has audited:
1 OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1. It gives the Agency an important role in the supervision of wholesale energy markets in Europe.
For information, Annex II summarizes the responsibilities and activities of the agency.
Management responsibility 4. Management responsible for the preparation and fair overall presentation of the Agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of underlying transactions6: a) Management's responsibility for the Agency's annual accounts includes designing, establishing and maintaining an internal control system as relevant for the preparation and fair overall presentation of the annual accounts free from material misstatement, whether intentional or unintentional, the selection and application of appropriate accounting methods on the basis of the accounting rules issued by the accounting officer of the Commission7 and the 4 5 6 7 The annual accounts comprise the balance sheet and the overview on the economic outturn, the cash flow table, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of significant accounts gmethods and other explanations.
The accounting rules adopted by the Accounting Officer of the Commission are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, where appropriate, on the International Accounting Standards (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).
8 Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
The Director approves the Agency's annual accounts after the Agency's accounting officer has prepared them on the basis of all information available and has drafted a report accompanying the annual accounts, stating, inter alia, that he has reasonable assurance that the annual accounts are in all material respects gives a true and fair view of the Agency's financial position. b) Management's responsibility for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for compliance with the principle of sound financial management requires the design, establishment and maintenance of an effective and efficient internal control system, including appropriate oversight and appropriate measures to prevent irregularities and Fraud and, where appropriate, legal action to recover funds wrongly paid or misappropriated.
Auditor's responsibility 5. Responsibility of the Court, on the basis of its audit, to provide the European Parliament and the Council8 with a statement of reliability as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
These standards require the Court to plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
The choice of audit procedures is at the discretion of the auditor.
In assessing these risks, the auditor considers all internal controls relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements and the supervisory and control systems in place to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, and plans procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 8. In the Court's opinion, the Agency's financial statements present its financial position as at 31 December 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with its financial regulation and those of the Accounting Officer of ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS -2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
6 accounting regulations issued by the Commission in all material respects as a whole appropriately.
10.The following observations do not call into question the Court's audit opinions.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY MANAGEMENT 11.The Agency carried over 1.9 million euro or 56% of the total amount committed under Title II (Agency buildings and associated costs). These transfers of appropriations are mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT regulation.
This is an operational, multiannual activity which should have been discontinued under Title III of the budget.
12. In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 3.1 million or 91% of the total amount committed under Title III, also related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
The extraordinarily high carry-over rate for Title III is mainly due to an additional appropriation increase of around 3 million euros through an amending budget approved on 31 October 2013.
OTHER OBSERVATIONS 13. At the end of the year the Agency had 5.5 million euros in cash, including around 3 million from the late adopted ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 7 amending budget (see Section 12).
Notwithstanding, the average treasury balances during the year were significantly higher than justified by operational needs.
FOLLOW-UP TO PREVIOUS YEARS' OBSERVATIONS 14.Annex I provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years. This Report was adopted by Chamber IV, headed by Mr Milan Martin CVIKL, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting of 8 July 2014.
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 07/08/2014
1 FOLLOW-UP TO PREVIOUS YEARS' OBSERVATIONS ANNEX I Year Court's observation Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) 2011 The high levels of unspent appropriations and carry-overs made and the low payment rate indicate weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget and constitute a violation of the budgetary principle of annuality.
Completed 2011 The transparency of recruitment procedures needs improvement.
In addition, the questions for the written and oral tests and their respective weightings were not prepared before the applications were examined.
Completed 2012 To cover higher school fees, the agency grants a special allowance to staff whose children attend primary or secondary school, in addition to the education allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations1.
In 2012, the special allowances totaled around 23,000 euros.
They are not covered by the Staff Regulations and are therefore illegal.
Completed ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 2014-07-08
1 2 year Court's observation Corrective action status (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) 2012 The Agency has committed 1,7 million euro (equivalent to 81 % of the total funds committed in Title II) carried over to the following financial year.
These transfers of appropriations are mainly related to the ongoing implementation of the REMIT regulation.
As these implementation measures are part of the Agency's operational activities, they should have been budgeted under Title III.
Completed 2012 In 2012 the Agency made 20 transfers within the budget of around 1 million euro. 43 budget lines were affected.
Completed 2012 The Agency had 4.2 million euros in cash at the end of the year, including the 2011 budget surplus of 1.6 million euros resulting from an over-budgeting in 2011. The amount in question was recovered by the Commission in January 2013.
Ongoing 2012 The audited recruitment procedures showed weaknesses affecting transparency and equal treatment of applicants: The questions for the oral and written tests were not set before the applications were examined.
The conditions for admission to the written and oral tests and for inclusion on the list of suitable candidates were not specified with sufficient precision and insufficient measures were taken to ensure the anonymity of candidates taking part in written tests.
In progress Article 3 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations provides for double the basic allowance of EUR 252.81, ie EUR 505.62.
ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 ANNEX II Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Areas of competence of the Union under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Areas of competence of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Regulation (EU) No. 838/2010 of the Commission; Regulation (EU) No. 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Powers and activities The European Parliament and the Council shall adopt pursuant to the ordinary legislative procedure and after consultation of the Economic and Social Committee, the measures for the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States, which have the establishment and functioning of the internal market as their object.
Governance on the incentives and on a common method for assessing the higher risks involved in investments in electricity and gas transmission infrastructure.
Management Board Composition The Management Board consists of two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
Tasks The Management Board adopts the Agency's annual work program and adopts its budget.
He ensures that the Agency fulfills its mission and carries out the tasks assigned to it in accordance with the Agency Regulation.
Director The Director is appointed by the Management Board, after a favorable opinion of the Board of Regulators, on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the Commission.
Board of Regulators Composition The Board of Regulators consists of a senior representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a non-voting representative of the Commission.
Each member has an alternate appointed by each Member State's national regulatory authority.
Tasks − The Board of Regulators submits opinions to the Director on opinions, recommendations and decisions that are under consideration for adoption. − He guides the Director in carrying out his duties. − He gives an opinion to the Management Board on the candidate to be appointed Director. − He approves the work program of the agency.
External control European Court of Auditors.
Budget 2013 (2012) 11.9 (7.2) million euros. Headcount on December 31, 2013 (2012) Positions planned in the establishment plan: 49 (43), of which occupied on December 31: 49 (42).
Other staff: 20 (14). Total staff: 69 (57). Of these, – operational activities: 41 (34), – administrative activities: 28 (23). − Framework Guideline (Gas: Framework Guideline on Rules for Harmonized Transmission Fee Structures); organization of public consultations in line with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 including workshops; − Network codes a) seven reasoned opinions on network codes (electricity: network code for longer-term capacity allocation, network code for system operation, network code for operational planning, network code for load-frequency response and reserve, network code for customer connection; gas: network code for balancing and network code for interoperability and data exchange); b) four recommendations on network codes made by a qualified majority (all relating to electricity: network code for the connection conditions for all power plants, network code for capacity allocation and congestion management; network code for operational security and network code for operational planning); 2 Resources made available to the Agency for 2013 (data for 2012) Products and services in 2013 ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 07/08/2014
Source: Annex provided by the Agency.
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 11. As the Court found, this weakness has already been corrected by the Agency in subsequent commitment appropriations related to the implementation of REMIT, which have been included in the operational budget lines under Title III.
12. As already recognized by the auditors, the high transmission rate was due to delays in the implementation of REMIT.
This delay was due to the fact that the transfer of the required additional funds was only approved by DG ENER in October 2013 and the Agency received the funds in early November 2013.
However, the Agency managed to successfully complete all procurement procedures planned in connection with the implementation of REMIT by December 2013; related expenditure will be made in 2014.
13. The balance at the end of the year included the EUR 3 million received late in the year due to a budget adjustment; the remaining amount was used to cover all legal obligations, in particular related to REMIT, which were committed towards the end of 2013.
The treasury forecasting tool launched in 2014 will enable better cash management going forward. ACER - DE
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/17 REPORT on the 2015 annual accounts of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, together with the Agency's reply (2016/C 449/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of The Energy Regulatory Authority (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăACERŇ), based in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The main task of the agency is to support the national regulatory authorities in fulfilling the regulatory tasks carried out in the Member States at Union level and - where necessary - to coordinate the measures of these authorities.
As part of the Regulation on the Integrity and Transparency of the Wholesale Energy Market (REMIT Regulation) (2), the Agency and the national regulatory authorities were given additional tasks with regard to the monitoring of the European wholesale energy market.
2. The table gives the main figures for the Agency (3).
Table Main figures of the Agency Budget (million euro) Staff at 31 December (1) (1) The staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
COMMENTS ON THE STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. The Court's audit approach includes analytical procedures, direct verification of transactions and an assessment of key controls of the Agency's supervisory and control systems.
2014 10.9 72 2015 11.3 80 STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 4. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court has audited the following: (a) the annual accounts of the Agency, consisting of the annual accounts(4th ) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (5) for the financial year ended December 31, 2015, b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these accounts are based.
Management responsibility 5. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts of the agency and for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions (6): (1) OJ.
L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1. (2) Regulation (EU) No. 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ
It gives the agency an important role in monitoring wholesale energy markets in Europe.
(3) Further information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.acer.europa.eu.
(6) Articles 39 and 50 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013 (OJ
C 449/18 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 EN a) Management's responsibility for the financial statements of the Agency includes designing, establishing and maintaining an internal control system as necessary for the preparation and fair overall presentation of financial statements, free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies on the basis of the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's Accounting Officer(7), and the determination of accounting estimates that are reasonable under the circumstances.
The Director approves the Agency's accounts after the Agency's accounting officer has drawn them up on the basis of all available information and has drafted a report accompanying the accounts, stating, inter alia, that he has reasonable assurance that the accounts are in all material respects gives a true and fair view of the Agency's financial position. b) Management's responsibility for the legality and regularity of underlying transactions and for compliance with the principle of sound financial management requires the design, establishment and maintenance of an effective and efficient internal control system, including appropriate oversight and appropriate Measures taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and, where appropriate, legal action to recover funds wrongly paid or misused.
Auditor's responsibility 6. The Court's responsibility is to issue a statement to the European Parliament and the Council (8) on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions based on its audit.
Those standards require the Court to plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the Agency's accounts are free from material misstatement and the transactions underlying them are legal and regular. 7. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In accordance with Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (9), in preparing this report and the statement of assurance, the Court took into account the work of the independent external auditor on the Agency's accounts.
8. The Court considers that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for its statement of assurance.
Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 9. In the Court's opinion, the annual accounts of the Agency present its financial position at 31 December 2015 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with its financial regulation and those of the Accounting Officer the accounting regulations issued by the Commission in all material respects as a whole appropriately.
11.
(7) (8) (9) The following observations do not call into question the Court's audit opinions.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's Accountant are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, where appropriate, on the International Accounting Standards (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No. 1271/2013.
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/19 BUDGETARY MANAGEMENT OBSERVATIONS 12. The Agency carried over 1.36 million euro or 59% of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2014: 1, 57 million euros or 62%).
These transfers of funds were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT regulation (1.1 million euros), a complex multi-year operational activity related to the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market.
In addition, the Agency carried over 0.79 million euros or 35% (2014: 0.98 million euros or 41%) of the appropriations committed under Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. These transfers mainly related to studies and services not yet provided in 2015.
FOLLOW-UP TO PREVIOUS YEARS' OBSERVATIONS 13. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
This Report was adopted by Chamber IV, headed by Mr Baudilio TOMƒ MUGURUZA, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting of 13 September 2016.
For the Court of Auditors V'tor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President
C 449/20 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 EN Court's observation The Agency carried over 1.57 million euro or 62 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2013: 3.1 million euro or .91%).
These transfers of appropriations were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT regulation, a complex multi-year operational activity for which the implementing regulation was only adopted on 17 December 2014 (1).
In addition, the Agency carried over 0.98 million euros or 41% (2013: 1.9 million euros or 56%) of the appropriations committed under Title II (Administrative Expenditure) to the following financial year. These transfers mainly concerned studies for the implementation of the REMIT regulation and annual contracts that were extended towards the end of the year.
In October 2013, the agency received an additional 3 million euros for the implementation of the REMIT regulation via an amending budget, which it carried over to 2014.
However, according to the implementing regulation, the REMIT framework will not apply until October 2015.
Some of the funds were used in 2014 to prepare for the implementation of the REMIT regulation.
At the end of 2014, the Agency made two pre-financing payments of EUR 1.56 million for contracts for REMIT-related services to be provided in 2015-2017. In this way, an automatic repayment to the Commission of unused appropriations was avoided(2).
Although this allows the Agency to fund its future REMIT-related activities, this practice is in conflict with the budgetary principle of annuality.
According to the headquarters agreement between the agency and the Slovenian government, a European school is to be established in Slovenia, but this has still not happened more than four years after the signing of the agreement.
Year 2014 ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) N/A 2014 2014 N/A Pending (1) (2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1348/2014 (OJ
According to Article 13 of the EU Financial Regulation, amounts may only be carried over to the next financial year.
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/21 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 13. The Agency is aware of the identified level of carryovers due to year-end open commitments, which are mainly due to the long-term nature of the implementation of the REMIT project.
Given the continuing uncertainty about the Agency's annual budget allocation, the principle of annuality is difficult to reconcile with the inevitable multi-annual nature of the REMIT project.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/25 REPORT on the 2016 annual accounts of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, together with the Agency's reply (2017/C 417/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of The Energy Regulatory Authority (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăACERŇ), based in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The main task of the agency is to support the national regulatory authorities in fulfilling the regulatory tasks carried out in the Member States at Union level and - where necessary - to coordinate the measures of these authorities.
Table Main figures of the Agency Budget (million euro) Staff at 31 December (1) (1) The staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
Source: In the ABI. published household information.
2015 11.3 80 2016 15.9 103 OPINION 4. We have audited a) the Agency's accounts, comprising the annual accounts(4) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (5) for the financial year ended 31 December 2016, and ( 1) OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p.
(2) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(3) Further information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.acer.europa.eu. (4) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanations.
(5) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the overviews summarizing all income and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 417/26 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 b) verified the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 5. In our opinion, the annual accounts of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2016 present the assets and liabilities of the Agency as at 31 December 2016, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes of net assets for the financial year then ended fairly in all material respects as a whole in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accounting Officer of the Commission which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 7. In our opinion, the payments underlying the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 are legal and regular, in all material respects.
Responsibilities of management and those responsible for governance 8. Pursuant to Articles 310 to 325 TFEU and the Agency's Financial Regulations, management is responsible for the preparation and overall presentation of the accounts on the basis of internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector and the legal requirements Legality and regularity of the processes on which it is based.
This responsibility includes designing, establishing and maintaining internal control structures necessary for the preparation and presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The management of the agency bears the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the transactions on which the financial statements are based.
10. Those responsible for governance are responsible for overseeing the entity's accounting process.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/27 Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and underlying transactions 11. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements of the Agency are free from material misstatement and that the transactions underlying them are legal and regular and to provide the European Parliament and the Council or other relevant discharge authority with a statement, based on our audit, on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them.
Misstatements and errors may be intentional or unintentional and are considered material if individually or collectively they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
12. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the transactions on which they are based. The choice of audit procedures is at the discretion of the auditor. This includes assessing the risks of material - intentional or unintentional - misstatement in the financial statements and material - intentional or unintentional - violations of European Union law in the underlying transactions.
In assessing these risks, the auditor considers all internal controls relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements and the legality and regularity of underlying transactions in order to design audit procedures that are reasonable in the circumstances, but not with with the aim of issuing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used, the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
13. With regard to revenue, we review the subsidy the Agency has received from the Commission and assess its procedures for collecting fees and other revenue where relevant.
14. For expenses, we examine payment transactions after expenses are made, recorded, and accepted.
Prepayments will be checked after the beneficiary has proven their proper use and the agency has accepted the proof by clearing the prepayment Ń in the same year or later Ń.
15. In accordance with Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (6), in preparing this report and the statement of assurance, we have taken into account the work of the independent external auditor on the Agency's accounts.
16. The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 17. In its May 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the urgent need to clarify roles and responsibilities and to analyze the contracting authority's workload in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures.
The IAS also concluded that there is a need for significant improvement in procurement planning and monitoring.
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
OBSERVATIONS ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 18. The Agency carried over 4.9 million euros or 86% of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2015: 1.4 million euros or 59%).
As in previous years, these transfers of funds were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market(7) and amounted to EUR 4.7 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 1.1 million). . Euro).
For Title II (Administrative expenditure), the Agency carried over EUR 1 million or 38% of the committed appropriations to the following financial year (2015: EUR 0.8 million or 35%).
19. The increase in carry-overs is a concern and contradicts the budgetary principle of annuality.
The higher transmission rate is directly linked to the fact that procurement procedures and contracts are largely completed or signed towards the end of the year, which leads to a deferral of deliveries and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of a total of 299 contracts were signed in November and December (EUR 5,976,122.47 or 40% of the total value of contracts concluded in 2016).
The Agency may consider introducing differentiated budget appropriations to better reflect the multiannual nature of activities and unavoidable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
(6) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
(7) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
This Report was adopted by Chamber IV, headed by Mr Baudilio TOMƒ MUGURUZA, Member of the Court of Auditors, in Luxembourg at its meeting of 12 September 2017.
6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/29 EN Court's observations According to the headquarters agreement between the agency and the Slovenian government, a European school is to be set up in Slovenia, but this has still not happened more than four years after the signing of the agreement .
The Agency carried over EUR 1.36 million or 59% of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2014: EUR 1.57 million or 62%).
These transfers of funds were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT regulation (EUR 1.1 million), a complex multi-year operational activity related to the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market.
In addition, the agency carried over EUR 0.79 million or 35% (2014: EUR 0.98 million or 41%) of the appropriations committed under Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. These transfers mainly related to studies and services not yet provided in 2015.
Year 2014 2015 APPENDIX Follow-up to previous year's comments Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN C 417/30 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 18. The Agency has successfully implemented the actions as agreed with the IAS.
Of the six recommendations, two very important and three important have already been completed.
The agency plans to complete the final recommendation by October 2017.
19. The Agency acknowledges that the funds carried over are high due to the multi-annual investments in connection with the REMIT Regulation and are difficult to reconcile with the budgetary principle of annuality.
The high carry-overs result from the timing of the annual contract cycle established in 2013 when the Agency received a significant additional budget for the REMIT project at the end of the year.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that the commitment authorization for the financial year 2016 under the chapter for REMIT expenditure has been implemented at 100%.
The Agency will analyze the implementation of separate budget appropriations for Title III.
20. The Agency considers that the introduction of differentiated appropriations for Title III better reflects the multi-annual nature of some of its activities, particularly in the REMIT area, provided that the financial resources made available to the Agency are stable and predictable.
Official Journal of the European Communities ISSN 0376-9461 C 81 Volume 40 March 13, 1997 Edition in German Information number 97/C 81/01 97/C 81/02 97/C 81/03 97/C 81/04 97/C 81 /05 97/C 81/06 97/C 81/07 Information and notices Contents I Information Court of Auditors Report on the 1995 financial statements and budgetary management of the European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop — Thessaloniki), together with the Center's replies 1 Report on the 1995 financial statements and budgetary management of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), together with the Foundation's reply 18 Report on the financial statements of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA-London), together with Agency's replies 27 Report on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonization 32 Report on the financial evalu 38 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the replies of the Agency 43 Report on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA-Lisbon), together with the Observatory's replies 49 13. 3. 97 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/1 I (Information) COURT OF AUDITORS REPORT on the 1995 financial statements and budgetary management of the European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop - Thessaloniki) (97/C 81/01) (Observations pursuant to Rule 188c paragraph 4(2) of the EC Treaty) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CEDEFOP FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1995 1 AUDIT OBSERVATIONS 6 General comments 6 Background 6 Audit scope Budget discharge 1994· Financial data Comments on budget implementation Segregation of activities Paying agency Transfers within the budget Transfers and cancellations of appropriations Notes on the budget and balance sheet Revenue (Commission subsidy) : Expenditure Balance sheet Relocation of the Center to Thessaloniki General comments Provisional housing Permanent housing Staff: General comments Staff: Change of status Summary .
L 39 of February 13, 1975, p. 1), amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1946/93 (OJ
2. The Court has audited the financial statements of the European Center for the Development of Vocational Training for the year ended 31 December 1995.
Pursuant to Article 18(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1416/76 (OJ
OJ L 181, 23.7.1993, p. 15), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
According to Articles 65, 61 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1416/76 as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1948/93, the latter is also responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with the financial regulations create and submit.
The Court of Auditors is required to audit these financial statements in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The European Council of 29 October 1993 decided to transfer Cedefop's headquarters from Berlin to Thessaloniki.
In order to facilitate this move, certain changes were made to staff employment conditions, some of which were inconsistent with the regulations in force.
The exact circumstances are explained in paragraphs 46-66.
In addition, a number of other cases were uncovered where payments were not fully in line with the applicable regulations.
5. The Court's audit provides it with reasonable assurance that the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1995 are reliable in that they accurately present 1995 revenue and expenditure and the financial position at the year end .
With the exception of the important exception in the area of expenditure mentioned in the previous paragraph, the underlying transactions were, on the whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS General comments Background 6. The European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 {l) as a satellite body of the European Community to promote vocational training at Community level.
Cedefop started its work in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Thessaloniki in 1995.
7. As defined in the said regulation, the role of the Center is “to support the Commission in order to promote vocational training and continuing education! to promote and further develop at community level", to make a contribution "to the implementation of a common vocational training policy" and in particular to promote the "exchange of information and experience".
In the field of vocational training, the center has the specific task of "creating documentation, contributing to the development and coordination of research, ensuring the dissemination of relevant documentation and information, promoting and supporting initiatives leading to a coordinated solution (particularly in the harmonization of training levels and mutual recognition of diplomas) and to provide a meeting place for the parties involved". 8. The Center is governed by a Management Board of 48 members (a cost of 334 000 ECU) The i1) Council Regulation (EEC) No. 337/75, published on 13 February 1975, OJ.
The board of directors elects a chairman and three deputy chairmen from among its members for a period of one year.
At the time of the audit (May 1996), the Management Board was chaired by the Director-General of DG XXII — Education, Training and Youth.
The Director of the Center is appointed by the Commission from a list of candidates submitted by the Management Board.
9. According to the Basic Regulation, the Director is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Center while the Management Board has overall responsibility.
The Board of Directors takes decisions, adopts the work program and the annual report, draws up the statement of income and expenditure for the previous year and the estimate of income and expenditure for the coming year.
10. According to the Basic Regulation, the Commission's role, performed by representatives of DG XXI I, is not only to represent the interests of the Commission within the Management Board, but also to adopt the Work Programme, the Annual Report and the Revenue and Expenditure Plan to examine and forward the statement of revenue and expenditure to the Council and the European Parliament.
In accordance with Article 23 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of June 1, 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 * of June 30, 1993, all commitments and payments made by the Centre before actual payment a) a reasonable cost-benefit ratio of budgetary expenditure in support of Cedefop; b) efficient use of human and other resources; c) high-quality products that meet the needs of Cedefop's customers; d) a clear and coherent role in European Community policy on vocational training.
Financial figures 14. For the financial year 1995 the Center had a budget of ECU 16.50 million.
The commitments made resulted in payments of 10.11 MECU and carry-overs to 1996 of 4.67 MECU, with the balance of 1.72 MECU being cancelled.
Of appropriations carried over from the previous year, ECU 2.16 million was paid and ECU 0.29 million cancelled.
Annex 1 to this report contains an analysis of the use of appropriations for the financial year and appropriations carried over from the 1994 financial year.
Appendix 2 gives an overview of the budget accounts for the financial year 1995 and the overview of assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1995.
Observations on implementation of the budget Separation of activities 15. After the move to Thessaloniki, the Center had not yet put in place adequate procedures to separate the activities of authorizing officer, accounting officer and imprest administrator by the time of the audit (May 1996).
For example, it was observed that the accounting officer also took on the duties of the imprest administrator.
Paying Agency 16. The proportion of payments made without the Financial Controller's approval remains high (60% in 1995 excluding salaries').
The heavy use of the imprest system is not in the spirit of the financial regulations.
A more acceptable practice would be to use the imprest account only for current and small-scale expenditure, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
Transfers within the budget 17. Transfers between different budget lines totaled 922 000 ECU in 1995, ie 5.6% of the initial budget against 10.9% in 1994.
No. C 81/4 | EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Carry-overs (570 000 ECU) were made in the last two months of 1995, while in 1994 this figure was 33%.
18. In 1995 the Center made no transfers between titles.
Thus, observation (2) made by the Court last year has been addressed.
Carryovers and cancellations of appropriations 19. The practice of carrying over large amounts of appropriations (3), already observed in previous years, increased in 1995.
In 1995 only 61% of the final available funds were disbursed compared to 73% in 1994.
The proportion of commitments carried over to 1996 was 28% (compared to 23% in 1994).
The proportion of funds forfeited was 10% compared to 5% in 1994.
Table 1 shows, by title, the appropriations carried over from the original 1995 budget and their subsequent use.
20. Carry-overs in the area of operational expenditure amounted to 53% of the initial appropriations compared to 40% in 1994.
As 8% of appropriations for operational expenditure was cancelled, this means that in 1995 the Center paid out only 39% of its 1995 operational budget.
At the end of the first quarter of 1996, only 34% of the 1995 funds carried over within Title 3 had been disbursed.
21. The high number of budget carry-overs and cancellations, as well as the high level of carry-overs to the next financial year, suggest that the work program was not implemented as planned and the principles of sound financial management were jeopardized.
This fact and the lack of staff (see paragraphs 42 to 45) will have a serious impact on the implementation of the 1996 budget.
Observations on the accounts and the balance sheet Revenue (subsidy from the Commission) 22. The subsidy charged to the general budget of the Communities for the financial year 1995 was paid by the Commission in several tranches. The first tranche of 2 300 000 ECU was paid on 6 February 1995, followed by further tranches of 2 400 000 ECU on 20 April 1995 and 2 500 000 ECU on 28 June 1995 2 800 000 ECU on 5 October 1995, 5 875 000 ECU on 22 November 1995 and 525 000 ECU on 1 December 1995.
As in previous years (4), this payment rhythm is not consistent (2) Court's 1994 annual report.
(3) Annual reports of the Court for the financial years 1992, 1993 with Article 26 of the Financial Regulations for the Center according to which payments are to be made in the first half of each quarter and are to be adjusted to actual needs.
Expenditure 23. Following the decision to move the Center to Thessaloniki, a new Deputy Director was appointed in 1994, who was then living and working in Thessaloniki.
Servant moved to Berlin and received an installation allowance of twice his basic salary. Less than a year later, ie after the center had moved to Thessaloniki, the same staff member again received an installation allowance of twice his basic salary.
Since the transfer of the center was rapid, the official's stay in Berlin was short-lived (11 months); in addition, he spent part of this time in Thessaloniki, also receiving full daily allowances (including weekends). The Court ^ considers that these decisions are contrary to the principle of sound financial management and to Cedefop's interests.
24. The contract of another deputy director, who had already moved from Berlin to Madrid in July 1995', was terminated by the Administrative Board with effect from 3 1 .
This official subsequently received a payment of ECU 71 030.
The Court considers that the Management Board's decision is not in accordance with the principles of sound financial management.
25. Pursuant to Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993, contracts may be awarded by private treaty , if the contract value does not exceed 12 000 ECU.
In at least 12 cases contracts were awarded for an amount in excess of ECU 12 000 without following the procurement procedure described in Article 45 of the said Regulation.
26. Almost 40% of the commitments on the 'Pilot Studies and Projects' budget line for the financial year 1995 (ECU 300 000) were made in the last two months of 1995.
An amount of ECU 150 572 was committed from the budget line 'Exchanges of officials and experts' to cover the remuneration of one expert who started working at Cedefop on 1 February 1996 and another expert whose contract ended on 22 December was signed in 1995.
These funds were committed hastily so as not to let the funds expire.
27. Cedefop's temporary premises rent for January. 1996 (ECU 22 750) has already been included in the 1995 accounts.
Since this expenditure relates to the 1996 financial year, it should also have been charged to 1996. and 1994.
The Court urges the Center to draw up an up-to-date inventory as soon as possible, as required by Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948 /93 of the Council of June 30, 1993.
29. The balance sheet shows an outstanding amount of ECU 3 134 for an invoice issued in 1991, among the outstanding debts from the previous financial year.
The Court's observation (5) made last year has not been taken into account, although the Center had given an undertaking in its reply.
The Court recommends that the Center write off this amount unless there is reason to believe that this amount will be recovered.
30. At the end of the year the Center had treasury balances of ECU 5.9 million.
The Center thus bears responsibility for managing large amounts of treasury, although it has little expertise in this area.
The Court reiterates the observation made last year (6) that this situation should be avoided by the Center making the quarterly calls for funds from the Commission more in line with its real cash needs. - At the same time, the Commission should ensure that it receives a realistic liquidity forecast from the Center before making its payments.
Relocation of the Center to Thessaloniki General comments ^B 31. The European Council of 29 October 1993 decided to transfer Cedefop's headquarters from Berlin to Thessaloniki in Greece (7).
32. The actual transfer to Thessaloniki took place in August 1995 and in September 1995 the Center started operations in Greece.
According to the Court's calculations, the 1995 accounts include approximately ECU 3 300 000 for relocation-related expenses.
33. Since 1 September 1995 the center has been housed in a building belonging to the Thessaloniki Institute of Agriculture and Industry.
No later than September 1, 1999, the Greek State will provide the center with a building for permanent accommodation.
The Center has signed four agreements (i) Court's 1994 annual report.
(6) Annual Report of the Court for the financial year 1994.
(7) Council Decision 93/C 323/01 of October 29, 1993, OJ C 323 of November 30, 1993, p relate to accommodation.
The basic agreement between Cedefop and the Greek State was signed on 22 June 1995 in Thessaloniki.
The three other agreements, including an agreement between the Greek State and the organization responsible for the overall construction, are part of this basic agreement.
Temporary accommodation 34. The Centre's temporary building has an annual rent of ECU 273 000, payable direct to the owner.
35. Pursuant to Article 1 of the agreement between the Greek State and the Center, the Greek State is making the building with the temporary premises and all associated installations available to Cedefop from 1 September 1995.
The Greek authorities are responsible for the electrical and electronic cable connections as well as for the telephone connections.
36. When the building was handed over, the Center did not raise any written objections.
However, during the first four months in Thessaloniki (September to December 1995) the Center had to invest ECU 120 000 to make the building containing the temporary premises operational.
Among other things, electronic and electrical cable connections as well as telephone connections had to be laid.
37. These investments were fully borne by the Center and the corresponding costs were included in the 1995 budget accounts.
The agreements do not contain a clear statement as to who is responsible for these investments.
Permanent housing 38. The Greek State is obliged to make a building available to the Center for permanent housing by 1 September 1999 at the latest.
For the construction of the building, Cedefop will pay the Greek State a total of 6 879 750 ECU, to be paid in four equal tranches of 1 719 937 ECU each.
Payment dates for the first three tranches were September 1, 1995, September 1, 1996 and September 1, 1997.
The final installment will be paid upon final handover of the building.
39. The Center has not ensured that these payments are linked to the actual progress of the works.
The center will have already paid an amount of ECU 5 159 811 more than two years before the handover of the building.
40. The Court recommends that the Center ensure that the interest on the first tranche is used for the benefit of the project.
No. C 81/6 | EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 41. The Center should ensure that the Employee Accommodation Organization (OEK) responsible for the overall implementation of the work represents Cedefop's interests.
Staff: general comments 42. The 1995 establishment plan foresees 79 posts, of which 24À,11LA,15B,26C and 3D. At the time of the audit (May 1996) 37 people actually worked for Cedefop (14A, 7B, 14C and 2D) , 11 people had been taken on by other EU institutions, 14 people had left the center before moving to Thessaloniki and 17 people had decided to stay in Berlin.
In 1995 and 1996 a large number of new employees had to be hired and this trend will continue in 1996.
43. The 17 people remaining in Berlin are free to work for public and private bodies or other EU institutions, while continuing to receive their salary for a maximum period of 18 months, depending on their seniority at Cedefop (each year of service corresponds to one month's salary , the minimum period of service must be 6 months).
After this period, those affected can either move to Thessaloniki or seek another solution.
One of the consequences of this situation is that Cedefop is unable to fill these 17 posts (May 1996) as they are blocked in the budget and cannot be filled as those concerned may decide at a later date to move to Thessaloniki after all.
44. It is unclear what will happen to those from this group of 17 who do not wish to move to Thessaloniki after the specified length of stay in Berlin.
Article 20 of the Staff Regulations provides as follows: 'An official shall reside at the place where he is employed or at a sufficient distance from that place as is compatible with the proper performance of his duties'.
Separately, three cases involving staff who refused to move to Thessaloniki have already been brought before the EU's Court of Justice.
45. This situation, with 17 key budgeted posts being blocked by staff not currently working for Cedefop, had a major impact on Cedefop's work already in 1995 and will continue to do so in 1996-1997.
Personnel: change of status 46. I n Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 337/75 of February 10, 1975 as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No. 251/95 of February 6, 1995 means es: 'The staff of the Center are subject to the rules and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Center shall exercise the powers conferred on the Appointing Authority in relation to its staff.
The Centre's Management Board, in consultation with the Commission, will adopt the relevant implementing rules."
Council Regulation (EC) No. 251/95 also repeals Council Regulation (ECSC, EEC, Euratom) No. 1859/76 of June 29, 1976 laying down the conditions of employment for the staff of the European Promotion Centre of vocational training.
The change was necessary in order to 'make the management of the staff of each decentralized body (...) consistent at Community level' (8).
However, while the staff of the Center have been appointed officials, the staff of the other decentralized bodies are made up of temporary staff.
47. The Court has examined the changes to the conditions of employment and other agreements between the Management Board and staff and found a number of irregularities. The most serious irregularities from the Court's point of view are described in paragraphs 49 to 66.
48. The Management Board did not submit these agreements to the Financial Controller for his approval.
Nevertheless, all commitments resulting from these agreements were processed through the imprest procedure and subsequently received the financial controller's approval.
Appointment of staff as officials 49. In connection with the move to Thessaloniki, the Center has taken the following measures to adjust the situation of its staff: — As a first step, on 1 March 1995 all staff members were appointed as temporary staff (Articles 2 b of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities), in the same grade and step as contractual servants. — In a second step, these officials were recruited as EU officials from 1 April 1995, following an internal competition "arranged" solely on the basis of qualifications.
Breach of the Staff Regulations in relation to the step in the initial appointment of Cedefop's former contract agents as temporary agents η 50. On the initial appointment of Cedefop's contract agents as temporary agents on 1 March 1995, would have none of the staff may be classified at a higher step than step 3 (or at step 4 for grades A 1 (8) Council Regulation (EC) No. 251/95 of 6 February 1995 amending the Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 establishing Cedefop, fourth recital.
13. 3. 97 |~EN~1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/7 to A 4, LA 3 and LA 4) (see Article 32 of the Staff Regulations applicable to temporary staff pursuant to Article 15 of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants is applicable).
51. Nonetheless, 33 of Cedefop's 59 temporary staff were placed at a seniority higher than level 3.
Abuse of powers in the organization of the internal competition for the appointment of former Cedefop contract staff to officials 52. On 1 March 1995 the Center published 15 linked vacancy notices and announcements of internal competitions.
F ollowing these competitions, all former Cedefop employees were promoted to civil servants. ^w' 53. According to the Staff Regulations, the purpose of a competition is to organize a competition between several candidates with a view to filling the vacancy with the most qualified candidate (Article 27(1) of the Staff Regulations).
A selection procedure is therefore, by definition, associated with a competitive situation and the risk of failure. made (10).
As a result, appointment decisions following a selection procedure in which there has been a misuse of powers are to be regarded as unlawful ( n ) .
56. The Commission's Legal Service came to the same conclusion, as confirmed by its note of 4 January 1995, paragraph (c) (12).
57. Since the objective of the competitions in question was different from that set out in the Staff Regulations, it must be assumed that the competitions organized by Cedefop involved a misuse of powers and must therefore be regarded as unlawful.
Violation of the Staff Regulations in relation to the classification in the appointment of Cedefop's former contract staff to officials 58. According to Article 31 of the Staff Regulations, Cedefop staff members should have been appointed officials from 1 April 1995 as follows: — Officials in category A or Language Service (LA): in the starting grade of their category or career (ie A 7 or LA 7) (Article 31(1)); — Officials of the other categories: in the starting grade corresponding to the post to which they were recruited (ie Β 1, Β 3 or Β 5; C 1, C 3 or C 5, D 1, D 3 or D 4 ) (Article 31, paragraph 2); — up to half of the appointments, exceptional staff members may be appointed to the next higher grade; this applies to every six posts to be filled within each salary group (Article 31, paragraph 2 b).
59. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, 32 out of 43 staff were appointed to a grade higher than the starting grade of their career (13).
(10) Judgment of 29.9.1976, Case 105/75 GI UFFRI DA v COUNCIL, ECR p. 1395. (n) Judgment in GI UFFRI DA case, see above.
(12)A selection procedure involves, by definition, a risk of failure and there are obvious legal reasons why this margin of risk should remain.
(13)Out of 17 staff appointed to A grade, 13 were appointed to a grade higher than A7 (the Staff Regulations limit appointments to six); all five LA staff were appointed to a higher grade than LA 7 (the Staff Regulations do not provide for this possibility); out of 18 staff in category C, 12 were appointed to a higher grade than the starting grade of their career (the Staff Regulations limit appointments to six); two out of three staff members in category D were appointed to a higher grade than the starting grade of their career (the Staff Regulations do not provide for this possibility). ^ ^ 54. The 15 competitions organized by Cedefop, on the other hand, had a completely different purpose, as they dealt with the situation of staff after moving to Thessaloniki.
No C 81/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Failure to comply with the obligations relating to the probationary period 60. Before a staff member can be established as an official, he must successfully complete a probationary period (Article 34 of the Staff Regulations). The probationary period must therefore be followed by an objective retrospective assessment of the probationer.
61. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, the probationers were informed beforehand that their appointment would be permanent. The probationary period was clearly described in advance as a necessary "legal formality" which was not really to be regarded as a probationary test (paragraph 4.1 of the "framework agreement"; letter of 7 February 1995 to the probationers, subparagraph 2 and paragraph 1 f of the Annex: The probationary period is a legal formality which as such must be completed by every probationer). ·» Unlawful secondment of officials during the probationary period 62. According to Article 38 of the Staff Regulations, only permanent officials can be seconded to other institutions, ie officials who have already successfully completed the probationary period.
65. This means that a system has been put in place whereby up to 50% of staff salaries are transferred in a currency to which a higher weighting applies (namely the weighting applicable to Germany of 111.4%) than Thessaloniki (for Greece a weighting of 80.2% applies) .
Unequal treatment vis-à-vis other civil servants through the introduction of special mobility provisions 66. The Commission has given a commitment to the Center to introduce specific regulation provisions on mobility.
These provisions contradict the principle of equal treatment for all civil servants.
Article 13 of Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 clearly provides that the Staff Regulations and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants are applicable to the Centre's staff.
This means that all the provisions contained therein apply to the staff of the Centre, including Article 29(1)(c) which concerns the transfer of officials to other institutions.
Thus there is no justification for special treatment in relation to mobility. Summary | 67. The Court's audit revealed that the Center's work program was not being carried out as planned due to serious staff shortages.
This led to large-scale transfers and cancellations of funds.
The audit also revealed that no functioning administrative and accounting procedures have yet been put in place.
68. Two Deputy Directors received remuneration equal to four months' base salary. These payments and a payment of ECU 71 030 to one of the Deputy Directors were not in accordance with sound financial management and the interests of the Centre.
69. At the time of the Court's audit there were 79 approved posts, but only 37 people were actually working at the Centre.
17 staff members had been appointed as EU officials', although they did not want to move to Thessaloniki, nor had they been transferred to another Community institution.
Conclusion 71. It is understandable that, in the context of the move to Thessaloniki, efforts were made to retain staff in the EU institutions and to reduce the complicated problems associated with the move.
The problem, however, is that the regulatory framework "within which the move had to be carried out, even after the changes to the conditions of employment, was not consistent with fair treatment of senior staff and did not allow Cedefop to move smoothly without disrupting its activities .
This report was approved by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 21 November 1996 in Luxembourg.
No. C 81/10 | EN1 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Non-specified expenditure Total Final appropriations 7 649 3 991 4 850 10 16 500 • Lapsed appropriations Appropriations 1274 1097 821 254 2 563 374 10 0 4 668 1725 ANNEX 2 Available funds 581 431 1430 10 2 452 Lapsed funds .
33 \ 88 175 0 296 Assets Fixed assets 1. Buildings and furniture Current assets 1. Stocks 2. Amounts to be collected 3. Advances 4. VAT still to be collected 5. Expenditure still to be booked Cash accounts 1. Bank account 2. Paying agent account 1994 1290 23 15 1 222 849 2168 1 125 1995 941 7 251 1962 5360 504 debts 1994 1 2 967 232 330 2 4 5 2 5 693 (1 000 ECU) 1995 948 2 013 482 556 4 668 49 060 Appendix 1 FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 - USE OF AVAILABLE APPROPRIATIONS 5 693 Source: Court's presentation based on information produced by Cedefop.
Budget 1995 (1 000 ECU) Appropriations carried over from 1994 Payments 5 279 2 916 1912 0 10 107 Payments carried over 548 343 1255 10 2 156 STATEMENT OF BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 9 060 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Balance for the financial year Short-term liabilities1 Salary deductions 2. Other liabilities Earnings to be collected Amounts to be reused Appropriations carried over Pending payments ·
TABLE 1 CARRY-OVERS FROM THE INITIAL BUDGET EA 1995 (ECU) Staff expenditure Operating expenses Operational expenditure Non-specified expenditure Total carry-overs from 1995 1 273 814 820 797 2 563 677 10 000 4 668 288 Percentage of carry-overs from original budget 16.7 20.6 52.9 100.0 28.3 In the period 01.01.-31.
3. Transfers of appropriations paid out in 1996 1 048 148 500 982 873 883 0 2 423 013 Share of appropriations carried over from .1995 used up to 31.3.1996 in % 82 61 34 0 52 Total (a)
The Management Board will follow the structure of the Court's observations and conclusions.
3. The Governing Body has a reasonable expectation that all institutions and decentralized bodies will be treated in an equal manner and on the basis of the same professional standards and practices that ensure equal treatment.
4. The Management Board considers that the uniform presentation of the problems fails to mention essential facts which could be summarized as follows: — The European Council decision of 29 October 1993 was taken without prior assessment of the implications of such a transfer.
At his first meeting with the staff, he expressed his firm determination to move by 1 September 1995, a timetable which CEDEFOP respected despite the problems caused by the Centre's relocation. — The chairman of the board of directors sent a letter to the responsible commissioners, Mr van Miert and Mr Ruberti.
On 18 November 1994, the President and Vice-Presidents of the Management Board of CEDEFOP were received by the members of the Commission.
The Chairman urgently appealed to the Commission to develop social support measures, particularly for those officials who were unable to leave Berlin.
In view of the regulations in force, the Commissioners stated that they were ready to examine the specific problems of some staff members in a positive and pragmatic spirit.
They also expected the same from the other institutions of the community (European Parliament, Council etc.) December 1994 unable to decide when to move as it did not seem acceptable to simply dismiss staff who could not move to Thessaloniki without a modern social plan.
At the same meeting, the Board instructed the Director to prepare a Board resolution (to be taken at an extraordinary meeting on January 27, 1995) providing for a socially acceptable relocation of the Center as of September 1st. "— In the second half of December 1994, the Council began examining the Commission's proposal to amend Article 13 of the regulation applicable to CEDEFOP, which provided that the staff of the Center should comply with the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants in the European Communities subject to regulations.
The director took this change as a basis for formulating the framework agreement on the social accompanying measures related to the transfer of CEDEFOP to Thessaloniki.
On January 23, 1995, the framework agreement was signed with the staff.
The preparations were carried out in close cooperation with the European Commission, which proved very helpful throughout the transition period (1994-1996). — The Management Board decided to accept the framework agreement and to move the center to Thessaloniki on 1 September 1995.
3/13/97 | P Ë Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/13 able to move to Thessaloniki.
According to the framework agreement, officials unable to leave Berlin chose to make themselves available to other EU institutions or public/private organizations and to receive a salary from the Center for at least six months, with one month's salary for each commenced year of service was paid.
The principle of paying a monthly salary for each year of service largely corresponds to the social plans and usual procedures in Germany and neighboring countries. — Early retirement was considered in 1995 for 17 staff (over 55 with 10 years of service and over 50 with 15 years of service).
These measures were not part of the framework agreement and were ultimately not proposed by the Commission due to the decisions of the Council of Ministers of 17 November 1995 to accept the "redundancy" of officials in connection with the accession of new Member States only for officials of the European Parliament.
The Governing Body will reply in more detail in its comments on paragraphs 46-66.
In general, it should be emphasized that the political aspects are to be taken seriously and subsequent criticism is to be avoided.
The relocation of an entire community facility within the restrictive framework of a large number of different ordinances and in the face of a considerable range of social and individual problems is indeed unique in the history of the community.
5. The Directors will come back to the exception mentioned in the last sentence later in this reply.
8. The cost of Governing Body meetings in 1995 is due to the fact that two additional meetings (in January and June) had to be held in connection with the relocation.
In addition, the December 1995 meeting incurred higher costs due to the official start of operations in Greece.
Only two meetings are planned for 1996.
13. The Management Board regrets that the Court has not reacted to the European Parliament's decision to postpone the discharge for the 1994 budget.
This raises serious questions as: — the discharge for 1994 should be seen in the context of the Court of Auditors' report for 1994 and the Council's recommendation to grant discharge and should follow normal rules and practice; — The European Parliament's appraisal of the 1995 financial year, without a report from the Court of Auditors for 1995 on which the Management Board could have commented, leads to a mixture of very different situations; — the center was transferred to Greece in 1995.
The installation went smoothly and under acceptable conditions.
This transfer requires a transitional period which cannot be completed until 1997 because of the disruption to which staff have been subjected.
15. There has been a noticeable improvement in this regard.
In the initial phase in Thessaloniki, the officials helped each other to get the work done.
16. As already pointed out last year, the increased use of the imprest procedure was at the request of the Financial Controller, who justified this with the cost-benefit ratio. The previous system caused high express delivery costs and caused delays.
It also meant that the financial controller had to work more frequently.
The use of the imprest procedure for all expenditure that might require provisional commitments limited administrative costs and avoided delays.
The situation is made even more difficult by the payment arrangements in Greece (most payments are made in cash or by check).
Invoices showing bank details are rare; the contractors collect their claims themselves.
The geographical distance to the financial controller and the lack of reliability of mail delivery also have to be taken into account.
In addition, DHL express deliveries may only be made once a week for cost reasons (Bfrs 3,000 per shipment).
An amendment to the decision establishing the imprest system will shortly be submitted to the Management Board to better accommodate the Court of Auditors' wishes.
17. The transfers of appropriations in the last two months are explained by the need to make the best use of the budget (of which 2 000 000 ECU had been set aside and only released just before the center moved to Thessaloniki) and by the decision of the Management Board (7 /8.12.1995) to hire seconded national experts according to the specifications of the Commission (also to promote the work of the Centre).
19. The Governing Body recognized that 1995 and 1996 would be years of transition and renewal.
A certain drop in productivity is inevitable in this international transfer, which the Board of Directors considers to have been carried out in an acceptable and smooth manner.
The center is still facing problems related to the transition period.
20. As the center was relocated with a greatly reduced number of staff, the work of the administration and all other services slowed down.
For this reason, a non-automatic transfer of funds has been requested and approved.
No. C 81/14 | EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 22. The Management Board notes that the Commission is making every effort to comply with the provisions of Article 26 of the Financial Regulations for the Center and to adjust the grant according to actual needs during the first two weeks of the quarter to be paid out.
In 1995 compared to 1994 there was an improvement here.
However, due to the lengthy internal procedures (involving the authorizing authority, the financial controller and the accounting officer) and the length of the bank's transfer procedure, an overall delay in the processing time (12 days on average in 1995) cannot be totally avoided.
However, in 1995, three payments came close to complying with the provisions of Article 26, arriving at the Center less than four days after the end of the first two weeks of the quarter.
If the processing time for all payments (which varied between 9 and 22 days) had been the average time of 12 days, then all payments would have been made in accordance with Article 26 of the Financial Regulations.
The first payment did not comply with the regulations, but this payment must be preceded by the commitment, which takes time.
23. The Deputy Director moved from Thessaloniki to Berlin because of uncertainty about the actual date of the Centre's transfer.
At the time of the appointment (October 1, 1994) no decision had been taken on the date of the move (which could have been further postponed).
It was hoped that his stay would be brief, but its ultimate duration was then unknown.
For the usual family reasons, he moved to Berlin under the conditions of status.
Per diem allowances for missions were granted according to the same procedure as for other staff.
As for the second installation grant, the deputy director returned this sum to the center after the audit, although he should have been entitled in full.
24. At its June 1995 meeting, the Management Board terminated his contract with effect from 31 December 1995 and instructed the Director to implement this decision and arrange for the statutory payments to be made.
The Management Board was pleased that the Deputy Director was willing to assist in the implementation of the 1995 work program and to assist the Center in its relaunch in Thessaloniki.
The indemnity (the payment of one-third of his basic salary from the time his duties ended until the end of his contract) was in accordance with his contract and Article 47 CEOS.
25. Given the difficulties of the initial phase and the large number of new contracts, the Center was not able to carry out the usual tendering procedures in each individual case.
Tendering procedures are ongoing or planned for 1996 for longer-term contracts.
In addition, to ensure balanced budget management throughout the year, the Management Board will frontload the adoption of the work program to allow the services the necessary time to call for tenders, make commitments and conclude the relevant contracts in the early months of the financial year.
26. The 40% of the commitments in favor of the "Pilot Studies and Projects" budget line (ECU 300 000) were made in the last months of the year, reflecting the late release by the budgetary authority of the appropriations set aside in the 1995 budget and the relocation of the Center to Thessaloniki was due.
The Center had to act consistently and consistently, having no choice but to meet its financial commitments under Titles I and II first and could only commit further under Title III once the deferred funds had been released.
The possibility of seconding national experts was recognized by the Management Board at its December 1995 meeting and could only be funded from the appropriations set aside.
The Director had to act quickly and within a short space of time to prevent funds (which became available only very late) from lapsed.
The (Austrian) expert's application (which was officially approved by the government) was already available at the beginning of 1995.
27. The reason for recording January 1996 rent in the 1995 financial statements was purely practical.
According to the contract, the rent has to be paid in advance in two installments on January 1st and July 1st.
Since the first payment was not made until October 1995 and it would have been difficult to pay again immediately on 1 January 1996, the first payment was made for a period of five months including January 1996.
28. Inventory update is in progress.
29. This will be complied with.
30. The Center ensures that it provides the Commission with a realistic forecast of cash flows.
The last payment of the year should be the largest, as it must also cover the first few months of the following year, when larger payments are usually made.
31. See comments on paragraph 4. 32. The administration of the Center is making an assessment of the costs of the transfer and an assessment of developments in order to have a full picture of the costs and benefits of the transfer to Greece.
13. 3. 97 I EN 1 ^ Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/15 36-37.
Since the center was expected to resume operations immediately after the move, some additional investment and changes were required.
It was noted that the agreements are not clear on this because the center needed more power outlets and heavier computer cables than the existing ones.
Other investments related to additional security requirements and communication facilities, such as "Europe by Satellite" to be able to receive broadcasts directly from the institutions.
However, the Center has placed issues relating to the temporary building on the agenda of the steering committee, which is dealing with the new and (if necessary) the temporary building.
The Board is aware of the fact that the content of the agreement on the new building placed a great deal of responsibility on the Greek government, which is currently fulfilling the agreement.
Two points are of particular concern: — ensuring the delivery of a quality building at a reasonable price; — ensuring the timely completion of the building (if possible before 1 September 1998).
The fact that substantial payments were made in advance (half of the building is already paid for even though the construction work has not yet started) may also have a positive impact as the actual construction work (after the selection of the construction plan and construction company in October/November 1996) could proceed rapidly given the immediate availability of the necessary funds.
In general, the Management Board fully understands the concerns of the Court, which were also shared by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Kellet-Bowmann and Mr Tappin, who visited the Center on 1-2. or on 14./15. visited in May.
The Management Board stands ready to act on this issue in accordance with the Commission's recommendations.
42. The staffing situation was very complicated due to the various accompanying social measures, but all the people on CEDEFOP's payroll who were not made available to other organizations or seconded to Berlin were working for CEDEFOP and its work programme.
43. The Management Board took the decision on the social measures accompanying the transfer (framework agreement) in order to "take appropriate measures as soon as possible" (see the statements contained in the minutes of the Council).
The evaluation of the measures must therefore take into account their political background.
The center is located in Thessaloniki and the board of directors and the director decide on the organization of the work.
Certainly some items are blocked while the accompanying social measures are effective.
However, by the end of 1996 almost all measures will come to an end and Cedefop will then be able to work at full capacity on the basis of the medium-term priorities (to be decided by the Management Act in November 1996) and the 1997 work programme, which is also based on these priorities.
From 1997, CEDEFOP will therefore move forward with a revitalized and new approach.
44. Those persons who, for social or personal reasons, cannot leave Berlin when the specified length of their stay in Berlin ends have three alternatives.
In this regard, the President of the Court of First Instance issued three orders dismissing the motions for interim proceedings.
These people have to move, leave the service of the center or find other solutions according to the statute.
45. The impact in 1996 is of course severe, but after the first few months of 1997 it will be minimal.
The transfer had its consequences and costs.
However, if you compare it to a similar move at national level, such as that of CEREQ (Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches sur les Qualifications) from Paris to Marseille (where only 21 of the 120 staff moved with the centre), then there have been differences would not result in an excessively negative impact on CEDEFOP given an international deployment over a distance of almost 2 000 km.
Cautious cost estimates suggest that cost neutrality will be achieved by the year 2000 and that work will be even more cost effective thereafter (mainly due to lower labor costs in Greece). 46th-66th
The points raised require some general comments first: a) As the Court points out in its conclusion (71.), it is understandable that efforts have been made to support the staff in order to encourage them to continue working for the EU institutions and to alleviate the difficult problems of laying. b) However, it is not the fault of the Management Board "that the regulatory framework within which the move took place [...] was not compatible with the proper treatment of senior staff and did not allow for a smooth transfer of CEDEFOP". c ) Following the decision of the Management Board of January 27, 1995, the Council on February 6, 1995 (Regulation (EC) No. 251/95) amended Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No. 337/75 so that “the staff of the Center is subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities".
Despite the absence of transitional provisions, as was the case when Council Regulation (EEC, Eur: torn, EGSC) No. 269/68 was adopted (see Article 102 of the status of officials of the European
No. C 81/16 | D Ë | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 and Article 99 of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities) was the case, account should have been taken of the fact that the officials of CEDEFOP could very well be regarded as 'officials of the European Communities', although they were subject to an ad hoc Council regulation d) In the absence of any transitional measures provided for by Community legislation, the Management Board had no choice but to act on its own responsibility to safeguard the rights and interests of CEDE-FOP officials e ) It should not be forgotten that Regulation (EC) No 251/95, which changed CEDEFOP's headquarters from Berlin to Thessaloniki, meant a sudden change in the place of work listed in the employment contracts: Berlin had been the for 20 years only seat of CEDEFOP and at no time since 10 February 1975 has there been the slightest indication of it, i.e ate that seat could be moved, let alone to another Member State far away.
On this basis, CEDEFOP employees entered into an employment relationship and based their private decisions (employment of the spouses, education of the children) accordingly. (f) In view of these circumstances, the Governing Body had the duty: — to provide staff with a high degree of security as regards their job (appointment as permanent officials), — to ensure the maintenance of their category, grade and step, and — to staff to help those who wish to find another job. g) The Management Board would also like to point out that the posts granted to Cedefop by the Budgetary Authority were permanent posts.
According to Articles 2 and 8 of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the EC, these posts can only be filled by officials or temporary staff. h) In addition, the wording of Regulation (EC) No 251/95 ("The staff of the Center shall be subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities") clearly provides for the employment of civil servants.
Given the permanent nature of the positions held by the staff, the choice of civil servant status over temporary contracts was appropriate and justified.
The Governing Body would also like to comment on the specific points raised by the Court: 46. (last sentence) The Governing Body had the choice to either appoint the staff to permanent status or to offer them two-year contracts (see opinion under point g) above).
It was considered unacceptable to require staff to move from Berlin to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract.
48. Although it is true that the Management Board did not officially submit the agreements to the Financial Controller for approval, the latter was informed of the decisions taken.
At the time the agreement was signed, it was not clear what the exact financial impact of the agreement would be due to the pending individual decisions of the staff.
It provided a framework that provided the basis for individual decisions and received the full endorsement of the Financial Controller during his visit to Berlin.
50-51.
In view of the argument listed under e) above, the decision taken (see comment, second indent) was the only possible one.
It was also in line with the Commission's unequivocal statement (see last sentence of the statement for the Council minutes attached) "that there must be no deterioration in the employment conditions for Cedefop staff".
The considerations of the Commission's Legal Service, only partially quoted in paragraph 56, leave sufficient scope for such a decision.
The Management Board reiterates that Article 29 of the Staff Regulations authorizes the appointing authority to hold internal competitions for the purpose of filling vacant posts in an institution (point lb).
The selection procedures were carried out in full compliance with Annex III of the Staff Regulations.
55. The Governing Body had the aim and duty of ensuring that as many CEDEFOP officials as possible agreed to move to Thessaloniki.
It should not be forgotten that Regulation (EC) No 251/95 amended the rules applicable to staff with effect from 1 March 1995 and that the move to Thessaloniki took place in August of the same year.
The Management Board's action was based on the following considerations: — it was unthinkable to require staff to move to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract (comment under g) and paragraph 46 above); — there was not enough time to organize an open competition before moving to Thessaloniki and again it would not have been realistic to expect staff to move without a secure job offer.
13. 3. 97 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/17 56-59/ The Management Board has already explained (see above, comment under e)) that the move to Thessaloniki meant a sudden change of place of work, which inevitably caused social problems and for affects productivity for a period of time.
Requiring staff to move after being assigned a lower grade or step would have made their situation even worse.
The note of the Legal Service of the Commission, which is mentioned in paragraph 56, provides under subparagraph d) sufficient arguments to justify the position taken by the Centre. 60th-61st
All staff applying for permanent appointment served the probationary period required by Article 34 of the Status.
62. According to note f), 3rd indent above, the Governing Body considered it its duty to assist the staff in an acceptable manner.
This was also the view of the Commission's Legal Service.
65. The provisions governing the transfer modalities of part of the salary allow this percentage to be increased from 35% to 50% in individual cases where there are legitimate reasons in accordance with Article 4 of the Regulation.
The framework agreement made it possible to transfer a higher percentage (> 35%' according to the Statute, but < 50% ) .
The application of these rules is completely different in the case of CEDEFOP and affects only a limited number of people with high liabilities in Berlin.
66. The Management Board thanks the Commission for the assistance it has given in a number of cases in finding alternative employment opportunities for staff who have not been able to relocate to Thessaloniki and for any other assistance they have given to the Centre almost daily during the move.
68. See comments of the Governing Body to paragraphs 23 and 24. 69.-70.
See in particular the general comments at paragraphs 46-66.
71. The Management Board regrets that the legislator has not introduced any transitional legal arrangements in Regulation (EC) No 251/95 to solve the difficult staffing problems caused by the move to Thessaloniki.
Given the lack of suitable instruments, the Governing Board was all the more obliged to support CEDEFOP's staff to the best of its ability.
The Directors believe they have acted in the only acceptable manner in the given and truly unprecedented circumstances.
Ultimately, it was obvious that he had to make such an effort (as the Court recognizes) since it is his duty as an employer to promote international . of a complete institution in a socially responsible manner.
The Board of Directors, Director and staff acted in this positive spirit, possibly taking some risks but not abusing power or acting illegally.
No C 81/18 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 REPORT on the financial statements and budgetary management of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation) for 1995 (97/C 81/02') (Observations pursuant to Article 188c(4), second subparagraph, of the EC Treaty) CONTENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background Audit scope Financial data Follow-up to previous observations Segregation of duties Paying agent £ Title-to-title transfers Mission expenses Cash balances Current assets Ownership of Foundation property Figures Page Budget execution and Accounting Transfers of appropriations 15 Transfers and cancellations of appropriations Income Expenditure 19 Conclusion 23 1 — 5 — 4 19 27 19 5 — 5 19 15 8 6 19 7 19 — 14 19 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 ^22 20 — 16 20 17 20 18 20 — 22. 20 — 27 21 7 19 19 19 20 20 20 20 20
• FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 1. This report is forwarded to the Council and the European Parliament in accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1365/75 (OJ
2. The Court has audited the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the year ended 31 December 1995.
Pursuant to Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1949/93 (OJ
L 164 of 24.6.1976, p. 16) the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
According to Articles 52, 54 and 55 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1949/93 (OJ
L 181 of 23 July 1993, p. 26) amending Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1417/76 (OJ
The Court of Auditors is required to audit these financial statements in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
3. The Court has conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards as far as these are applicable in the Community context. Accordingly, it carried out financial controls and applied other audit procedures which it considered necessary in this context. 4. In the Court's opinion, the financial statements for the year ended 3 1 .
Established for the financial year ending December 1995, its mission is "to contribute to the design and creation of better living and working conditions through an action to promote and disseminate knowledge capable of supporting this development".
The Dublin Foundation began operations in 1976.
Scope of audit 6. The Court of Auditors has audited the Dublin Foundation's 1995 annual accounts and budget, in accordance with the relevant regulations (2).
Financial figures 7. For the financial year 1995 the Foundation had funds of ECU 12.5 million at its disposal.
The commitments made resulted in payments of 9.3 MECU and carry-overs to 1996 of 3 MECU, with the balance of 0.2 MECU being cancelled.
Of the appropriations carried over from the previous year, ECU 1.9 million was paid and ECU 0.2 million cancelled.
Annex 3 to this report contains an analysis by title of the use of appropriations for the year and of appropriations carried over from 1994.
Follow-up to previous observations Separation of duties 8. The Court reiterates its observation made in previous years that the duties of the authorizing officer and the accounting officer are not sufficiently separated.
This is contrary to Article 15 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1417/76, according to which the principle of "separation of authorizing officer and accounting" applies and the "activities of the authorizing officer , the financial controller and the accounting officer [...] are incompatible with each other."
Paying Agency 9. A large proportion (1995: 5 9% , excluding salaries) of payments continue to be made without prior approval by a financial controller.
The extent to which the imprest account is used is not within the meaning of the financial regulations.
It would be more acceptable if only (2) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May . 1975 on the founding of the foundation (OJ
L 139 of May 30, 1975), amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1947/93 of June 30, 1993 (OJ
Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1417/76 of June 1, 1976 concerning financial provisions for the Foundation (OJ
L 164 of June 24, 1976), amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1949/93 of June 30, 1993 (OJ
No C 81/20 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 current or minor expenditure where the risk of irregularity is relatively low should be made through the paying agency. The Foundation, in consultation with the Financial Controller, should define in writing what is meant by current and minor expenses.
Title-to-title transfers 10. The Foundation continued to make title-to-title transfers in 1995 (see paragraph 16).
This is contrary to Article 21 of Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 494 000 ECU (11.9% of the appropriations entered in the budget), compared to 756 000 ECU (6.5%) in 1994.
16. Transfers of appropriations amounting to ECU 500 000 from Title 1 (Staff) to Title 3 (Operating expenditure) allowed the Foundation to carry forward to the following financial year commitments which would otherwise have been committed in accordance with Article 6(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1949/ 93 of the Council amending Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1417/76 should have been cancelled.
As stated in paragraph 10, the Court considers that such transfers from title to title are contrary to the financial regulation.
Carry-overs and cancellations of appropriations 17. As can be seen from Annex 3, the accounts show a payment rate of 75% overall, while the payment rate for title 3 "Operational expenditure" is only 54%.
Table 1 shows the carry-overs from the 1995 budget and their subsequent use in 1996, by title.
Transfers under Title 3 amounted to 45% of the original appropriations.
By the end of March 1996 only 20% of the transmissions had been used.
Income 18. The EU grant to the Foundation in 1995 was ECU 12.5 million.
The amounts actually requested and received were ECU 2.5 million as of April 26, 1995, ECU 2 million as of June 14, 1995, ECU 4.3 million as of October 12, 1995 and ECU 1.3 million as of December 31, 1995 .
The difference of ECU 2.4 million corresponded to unneeded treasury funds not called from the Commission, following the Court's recommendation last year.
As in previous years, this funding pattern is not compatible with Article 26 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1417/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1949/93, according to which the subsidy is paid in the first half of each quarter is paid.
Expenditure 19. Pursuant to Article 63 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1949/93 of June 30, 1993 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1417/76 of June 1, 1976, orders with a value of more than 12 000 ECU to be awarded following a call for tenders.
The following exceptions were identified: — A contract worth ECU 533 072 to carry out a Europe-wide survey on working conditions was awarded by private contract. — Out of a sample of 26 contracts selected for examination, six contracts were based on Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, Council as amended by Council Regulation No 1949/93 .
3/13/97 | EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/21 amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993, awarded by private treaty. In three cases (supply of computers in one case and study contracts in the others) Article 46 was used to avoid the tendering procedure.
20. In two cases it was found that expenditure had already been invoiced before the commitment was made.
In one case invoices for November and December 1994 were included in the 1995 commitment, although the framework contract between the Foundation and the contractor did not start until 1 January 1995.
21. In a sample of 10 study contracts drawn for the audit, five contracts received their final reports months after the deadline set in the contract.
22. During its audit, the Court found that documents had been modified using correction fluid in the following cases: — the date of an invoice of DM 45 365 (ECU 23 817) faxed to the Financial Controller was overwritten with correction fluid and dated 17 January 1995 changed to December 17, 1994.
The Financial Controller gave his approval on the basis of this fax and the change of date • resulted in the expenditure being charged to the 1994 carry-overs and not to the 1995 appropriations. — The amount in a recovery order has been overwritten with correction fluid and changed manually from 1 680.16 ECU to 4 741.97 ECU.
It is not clear to what amount the Financial Controller's endorsement relates.
27. Audit of a sample of payments revealed problems in order management and inappropriate changes to key documents, see paragraphs 19 to 22.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 7 November 1996 in Luxembourg. For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President
No C 81/22 1 EN [ Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Assets 1994 Fixed assets 1. Buildings 7106 2. Furniture 1 0 8 5 Current assets 1. Stocks 21 2. Amounts to be recovered 439 3. Advances on missions 8 4. Miscellaneous advances 1 5. Bank charges 6 Cash accounts 1. Bank account —Ecu 4488 — Main account 131 — Imprest account 104 - 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1 — 1520 190 245 Debt Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Balance of the financial year Short-term liabilities 1. Salary deductions Income to be collected Appropriations Appropriations carried over for reuse Pending payments 1994 8 211 1 3 4 4 10 440 109 2 061 1214 13 389 (1 000 ECU) 1995 8 479 -2 040 18 306 224 3 012 751 10 750 ANNEX 1 ENSHEET OF ASSETS 1.195 750 Source: Court's presentation based on information produced by the Dublin Foundation.
1 097 305 - 5 8 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 143 165 39 10 347 5 185 28 833 177 3 320. 2 807 12 350 -2 003 147 -184 -2 040 EXPENDITURE Staff 1. Payments during the year 2. Carryover Appropriations Administrative expenditure 1. Payments during the year 2. Appropriations carried over Operational expenditure 1. Payments during the year 2. Appropriations carried over Outcome of the year (a) — (b) Total expenditure carried over from the previous year and exchange rate difference during the (b) outflow Appropriations provided in 1344 Source: Court's presentation based on information provided by the Dublin Foundation. '
Total (a) Balance of the year
No C 81/24 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Title 1. Expenditure on staff Final estimates 5 316 1 0 5 0 6 174 Payments 5 185 (97.5) 833 (79.3) 3 320 (53.8 ) Transfers 28 (0.5) 177 (16.9) 2 807 (45.4) Cancellations 103 (2) 40 (3.8) 47 (0.8) 190 (1.5) Funds available 160 169 1732 2nd 061 Payments 131 (81.9) 141 (83.4) 1642 (94.8) 1914 (92.9) Cancellations 29 (18.1) 28 (16.6) 90 (5.2) 147 (7.1 ) .
2. Current administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure Total 3 012 (24) ANNEX 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 - UTILIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRIATIONS 12 540 The figures in brackets correspond to the percentage of final or available appropriations.
Title 1 2 3 Carryovers from the 1995 financial year 27 956 177 357 2 806 626 3 011 938 Carryovers in % of the original budget Carryovers used at 31/03/1996 Utilization rate Carryovers (%) Total Budget 1995 (1 000 ECU) Carryovers from 1994 9th 338 (74.5) TABLE 1 CARRY-OVERS FROM THE INITIAL BUDGET FOR 1995 (ECU) 0.5 16.9 45.4 24 . 27 134 97 67 932 38 504 720 18 599 786 20
13. 3. 97 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/25 ANSWER 8. The Foundation has introduced a number of measures to separate the duties of the authorizing officer and the accounting officer.
The Court of Auditors has noted these initiatives in previous reports.
The only remaining problem in practice is the procedure by which the authorizing officer records expenditure in the existing integrated accounting system.
This problem will be solved once the Foundation has purchased a new accounting system.
Following consultations in 1995, in 1996 the Foundation took part in a joint tender with other EU agencies to purchase a suitable accounting system.
However, the result was that none of the candidates fully met the institutions' requirements.
Following extensive contacts with the Commission services, the Foundation is expected to purchase an appropriate accounting system from the Commission during 1997, having recently completed work on a corresponding system which will meet the Agencies' technical and legal requirements.
9. The Foundation has contacted the Commission services with a view to finding solutions to the problem identified.
The Foundation has since been informed that this issue is being discussed between the Commission and the European Parliament as part of the ongoing dialogue on the agencies' financial regulations.
10. Following the last report of the Court of Auditors, the Foundation asked the Commission services for clarification of the Financial Regulation of the Foundation in relation to the transfers concerned.
The Foundation is now informed by the Directorate-General from DG XIX that the transfers have been made in accordance with the Foundation's Financial Regulations (see also paragraph 16).
11. All missions within the Foundation were documented and authorized by the Authorizing Officer after ensuring that they were in line with the Foundation's work program or administrative requirements.
The Foundation will review its procedures for recording and locating the necessary documentation related to missions.
The regulation establishing the foundation stipulates that the European bodies are to be consulted and that the social partners are to be involved in their work.
Although exchanges between THE FOUNDATION and the relevant EU bodies in Brussels have intensified in recent years, the number of business trips to Brussels has not increased.
No business trips will be made if other means of communication can be used.
Telephone, internet, e-mail and other electronic means are used as far as possible. A videoconferencing pilot project was also launched in November 1995.
Likewise, experiments with computer conferences have also been carried out.
14. Lawyers are currently preparing a revised lease agreement on the basis of a proposal submitted by the Irish authorities.
16. As indicated in paragraph 10 above, the Foundation has been informed by the Commission that the transfers concerned are fully in line with the Financial Regulation. With their help , the Foundation has been able to make the most efficient use of the funds made available to it by the decisions of the budgetary authorities.
However, the Foundation appreciates the position of the Court of Auditors and Parliament and endeavors to make such transfers only in urgent cases.
These contracts mainly related to studies with implementation periods of 12 months or more.
18. The Foundation will again remind the Commission services that grant payments must be made by the 15th of each quarter.
19. In the case of the contract to carry out a European study on working conditions, the relevant file shows that this contract was concluded under the framework contract for the "Eurobaromètre-Standard" drawn up as a result of an open tendering procedure between the European Commission and INRA (Europe). was.
The direct award of contracts was fully in line with the procedure and criteria to be respected in Article 46 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation. These will be followed. Article 46 paragraph d) was applied to the supply of computers.
Only one supplier had the required software and dedicated multilingual keyboards and provided local support: the other two contracts relate to research proposals.
The Management Board of the Foundation, at its meeting of 25 March 1994, approved the introduction of new procedures, which should be fully operational during 1995, for the award of contracts based on calls for expressions of interest published in the Official Journal and of tenders.
The two contracts were entered into during the transition period determined by the Board of Directors.
20. The Foundation operates a decentralized ordering system.
The two invoices were part of a series of orders placed by an operational entity whose total orders exceeded committed funds.
Appropriate measures will be taken to ensure that this does not happen again.
The deployment of a new accounting system should ensure the automatic implementation of the necessary controls.
21. The implementation of the study contracts is monitored monthly at the program management meeting.
22. The appointment was made on 11 October 1994 for the services concerned.
Changing the date on the invoice itself did not affect the carryovers in any way.
Nevertheless, the officer in question was reprimanded.
Any necessary corrections to be made by hand will be signed and dated in the future.
3/13/97 . [EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/27 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/03) (period from 1 September 1994 to December 31, 1995) 1.1.
This report is submitted to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in accordance with Article 57(10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (a). 1.2.
The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 57(7) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Administrative Director.
The latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (2), complying with the internal financial rules provided for in Article 57(11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. The Court of Auditors is required to audit these accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report of the agency's first audit. .1.3.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report. 1.4. The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and, as a whole, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are assured.
Ç) OJ.
18. (2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 57(9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the accounts of all revenue and expenditure of the Agency for the financial year 1995 created on March 31, 1996, dated .
These accounts were received by the Court on 9 April 1996.
Main remarks on the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Subsidy from the Commission ~ 1.5.
During the financial year 1995, the Agency recovered the Commission subsidy (ECU 10.1 million) without issuing the appropriate recovery orders.
Accounting for budgetary transactions 1.6.
Until August 1995 there was no journal of commitments and payments for that financial year.
At the end of the year, the Agency put in place an accounting system.
The Court found that this system allows entries to be changed subsequently without this being apparent.
In the absence of dated commitments, the available appropriations were exceeded (breach of Articles 29, 35 and 36 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Agency) despite the Executive Director presenting an amending budget approved by the Management Board (chapter-to-chapter transfers).
Until August 1995 the Agency processed all payments through a paying agency.
This additional use of the imprest procedure is contrary to Article 45 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, which only provides for this procedure for certain types of expenditure. 1.8.
Moreover, the agency only started to account for this expenditure in September 1995.
At the end of the financial year on 31 December 1995 some ECU 937 000 remained to be cleared.
General invoice 1.9.
Because of the processing via the paying agency, the entries in the accounts and against the budget only took place in September and December 1995.
This violates accounting practice.
No. C 81/28 | EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 26 September 1996 in Luxembourg.
Result to be carried over Sub-total Appropriations carried over 1. Non-automatic appropriations transfers 2. Automatic appropriations transfers Sub-total Custody accounts 1994 1488 0 1488 1 0 1 8 2 831 3 849 31 3 34 0 5 371 (1 000 ECU) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 5640 5. 5640 914 41 85 126 390 1226 199 1 815 10 800 TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 800 Source: Court's presentation based on information produced by the Agency. 17 5 371 Subtotal Liabilities Total Liabilities Subtotal Current 1. Salary deductions 2. Miscellaneous creditors 1. 2. 3. Deferred charges Reusable (Art. 23 RF)
1994 •6 800 13 6 813 413 226 2 568 3 618 5 6 830 -17 -17 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 150 299 3 210 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 10 97 10 1653 35
13. 3. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/31 REPLIES FROM THE EMEA 1.6.
The commercial accounting systems available on the market do not take into account the particularities of the Community's financial regulations.
For this reason, in 1995 the agencies published a call for tenders for a system that suited their needs.
Until the introduction of the new system, the agency will work with a spreadsheet system.
It is true that subsequent changes to the postings can be made with this system without these having to be reproduced in the accounting of the budget transactions.
However, these changes can be found in the general accounts.
In the matter, all budget processes are documented.
During the start-up period, until the Financial Controller was appointed, an in-house imprest account was essential for the Agency to function properly.
This was the only way that the Member States' decision to set up the agency could be implemented quickly.
With the appointment of the Financial Controller, the imprest account was used less and was closed at the end of July 1995. On 3 1 .
By December 1995, 75% of the advances processed through the imprest account had been cleared.
Even if a large amount could not be cleared until 1996, the agency achieved a satisfactory end result and did its best under difficult circumstances.
This report is submitted to the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market in accordance with Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 (*). 1.2.
The Court has examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 119(2)(c) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2), the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office.
According to Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (3), while complying with internal financial regulations. The Court of Auditors is required to audit these accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report of the Office's first audit. 1.3.
Main remarks on the implementation of the budget of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Subsidy from the Commission 1.5.
During the financial year 1995 the Office spent only ECU 6.8 million (68%) of the subsidy awarded.
L 11 of 14.01.1994, p. 33.
(3) In accordance with the provisions of Article 137(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all revenue and expenditure of the Office for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 29 March 1996 and signed by the President of the Office and the Commission, the Committee on Budgets and . submitted to the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 2 April 1996.
The tables appended to this report present these financial statements in condensed form. turns.
In the Court's view, the Office should have issued a recovery order for the entire budget (ECU 10.1 million) in order to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 4.6 million).
During the 1995 financial year, the Office put in place an accounting system.
This is contrary to the internal financial regulation (Articles 4(1) and 29(1)).
Fund transfers and transfers 1.7.
The appropriations carried over to 1996 account for 46% of the budget and concern mainly computer equipment (Titles II and III of the budget).
Furthermore, the appropriations available were the subject of transfers from Title I (Staff) to Title II (Expenditure on operations) totaling ECU 2.529 million (25% of the budget). Inventory 1.8.
The inventory is only managed in terms of quantity, but not in terms of value.
Therefore, a reconciliation with the amounts shown in the Office's balance sheet is not possible. Segregation of Duties 1.9.
The management system put in place by the Office does not ensure an appropriate segregation of duties and proper implementation of the rules on revenue, commitments and payments (Authorizing Officer, Financial Controller and Accounting Officer). Property, plant and equipment T.10.
The office is currently housed in a Spanish government building.
However, there is no contract for the use of this building.
In view of the future provision of its final seat, the Office should clarify the need for housing its services.
13. 3. 97 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/33 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 26 September 1996 in Luxembourg.
TABLE 1 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT DECEMBER 31, 1995 '2 17 1 4 2 7 194 3 469 1487 15 3 275 1 879 6127 Deferred income 15 Total liabilities 1487 .6 127 169
No C 81/36 p 5 Ë Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 REPLIES OF THE OFFICE Subsidy from the Commission 1.5.
Neither the Commission nor OHIM were aware of the need for a recovery order.
OHIM has taken note of the Court of Auditors' observation and has arranged for an immediate recovery order to be issued for the entire subsidy less the provisions for the 1996 financial year.
Accounting for budgetary transactions 1.6. It is true that the accounting system currently used by the OHIM allows subsequent changes to the entries.
For the period up to the introduction of the Sincom2 system developed by the Commission, the OHIM has taken organizational precautions for additional security guarantees when using the current system.
Until then, OHIM has no choice but to await the Commission's accounting system, which should be available before the end of the year, as the development of such a system involves a large financial burden that one office alone cannot bear.
In 1995 the Office's budget had been adopted, taking into account a provision of ECU 2 million requested by Parliament, out of a total budget of MECU 10.1.
The provision was released in two stages: — ECU 1 million in October 1995, — the balance in November 1995.
The temporary blocking of appropriations has of course had an impact on their use, particularly those under Title I (Staff) as there was uncertainty as to whether the provisions would actually be lifted.
The OHIM could not under any circumstances agree to recruit staff as long as the payment of salaries was not guaranteed by the end of the financial year.
Once the provisions had been released, measures were taken to use the released appropriations, on budget lines where it was still possible due to the deadlines in the commitment procedures and where there was also a real need.
For this reason, the Office has requested a transfer of funds from Title I to Title II, mainly to purchase computer equipment, which was particularly urgently needed during the start-up phase of the Office.
It must be remembered that OHIM started its work on April 1, 1996 and that since then over 30,000 trade mark applications have been received, while the workload for the whole financial year had been estimated at 15,000 applications.
Inventory 1.8. At the time of the Court's audit, OHIM had just received from the Commission the software for the computerized management of the inventory; it was just installed at the time.
Segregation of Duties 1.9.
A query made to the Court of Auditors made it clear that this point concerns the sequence of signatures that must be observed in the commitment and payment procedures.
There is therefore no confusion as to the duties of the authorizing officer, the accounting officer and the financial controller.
Rather, the comment related to the fact that the transaction was signed off first by the accounting officer and then by the authorizing officer. · This approach had the advantage of ensuring that funds were available before a transaction was signed off by the authorizing officer during the start-up phase of the Office, when there was no manager yet. Now that OHIM has a budget manager, the order of signatures on the various budget documents can be respected as follows: 1st budget manager, 2nd authorizing officer, 3rd financial controller, 4th accounting officer.
Property, plant and equipment 1.10.
There is an agreement (see copy attached) between the Minister of Industry of the Spanish Government
13. 3. 97 |~EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/37 and then Commissioner Vanni d'Archirafi for the Internal Market. On the basis of this agreement, the Spanish authorities are making a building (temporary headquarters) available to the Office free of charge; this is the building in which the office is currently located.
According to this same agreement, the Spanish government will take measures to provide the Office with a permanent seat.
The decision on the site and the specifications for the tender for the building to be erected was made by the Spanish authorities on July 3, 1996.
These specifications will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities (S series — calls for tender) on 30 July this year.
In the wake of these latest developments, the Office will take the necessary steps without delay.
This report is presented to the Board of Directors of the European Training Foundation in accordance with Article 11(4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1360/90 of 7 May 1990 0).
The Court has audited the financial statements of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 11(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Director.
In accordance with Article 11(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (2), while complying with the internal financial rules. The Court of Auditors is required to audit these accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report of the foundation's first audit.
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards as far as these are applicable to the Community context.
He carried out audits of the accounts and other audit procedures considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report.
(2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 11(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the accounts of all revenue and expenditure of the Foundation for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 31 March 1996, signed by the Director of the Foundation and sent to the Commission, the Bureau and the Court of Auditors.
The tables in the appendix to this report present these financial statements in an abbreviated form.
Main observations on the implementation of the budget of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Budgetary accounts 1.5.
This system and the systematic processing via the paying agency can lead to overruns.
Paying agent 1.6.
In 1995, the Foundation processed all payments through a payment office.
This is not compatible with Article 43 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation, which only provides for this procedure for certain types of expenditure.
In addition, the settlement of this expenditure was delayed because the relevant documents had to be sent to the Financial Controller in Brussels for approval.
Procurement 1.7. ^ The Foundation has awarded several totaling ECU 0.4 million to use the funds still available at the end of the financial year.
In doing so, however, it failed to comply with the procurement rules, particularly with regard to price or performance competition (Articles 45 to 51 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation).
Financial controller 1.8.
Given the current situation, the Foundation's internal control system could be improved by having an on-the-spot financial controller from the Commission assigned to it. delivery orders
13. 3. 97 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/39 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 10 October 1996 in Luxembourg.
No C 81/40 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Assets Fixed assets 1. Fixed assets 2. Equipment and furniture Operating assets 1. Office supplies Subtotal Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected 2. Subsidy to be collected 1994 0 • 35 0 35 0 0 0 0 1995 0 568 0 568 0 543 24 5 6 7 .
3 398 Liabilities Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Transferring result Subtotal Transferred funds 1. Non-automatic 1994 35 184 219 319 2 481 2 800 72 63 135 11 3 165 (1 000 ECU) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 1975 7.7 0277 195 4 533 Commission 3. Miscellaneous cash accounts 1. Bank accounts Debtors Subtotal Liabilities TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 Total assets Source: Court's presentation based on information produced by the Foundation. * Transfers of appropriations Automatic transfers of appropriations 3 130 .3 165 Subtotal Total liabilities 4 533 2. Short-term 1. Salary deductions 2. Staff Λ Custodial accounts subtotal
No. C 81/42 | EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 REPLIES OF THE FOUNDATION 1.5.
Balance sheet accounting - The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
He also played a key role in introducing a system for managing the budget and accounts that was common to all departments.
Discussions are currently being held with the responsible departments of the Commission which will make it possible to overcome all the concerns expressed by the Court of Auditors through the introduction of a new budget management system, which will come into force on 1 January 1997.
It must be stressed that during the period under review none of the budgetary amounts made available had been exceeded.
1.6. Management of Advances It must be stressed that advances were not used for all equipment purchases, nor for participation in the real estate which formed a significant part of the budget.
In addition, the use of general advance payments, in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation, has now been reduced and all accounting documents for a given month are sent to the auditor in Brussels by the 10th or 20th of the following month.
Conclusion of contracts On the one hand, the contracts under discussion, which are closely linked to the activities and projects belonging to the work program of the foundation, represent an extremely small part of the foundation's activities, both in terms of number and budget.
On the other hand, it is true that the involvement of competitors that led to these contracts was informal.
This procedure was chosen at the time mainly because of the urgency.
In addition, the contracts under discussion had the task of organizing conferences and seminars in the name and on behalf of the Foundation and under its strict control.
The associated budget was divided into two parts: the fixed remuneration part (less than 12 000 ECU) and the operational part, which was pre-determined by the Foundation and reimbursed on the basis of supporting documents.
On the basis of these elements, the Foundation considered that the actual amount of the contract would not exceed 12,000 ECU.
When it became clear at the beginning of 1996 that the Court of Auditors did not share this opinion, this system was abandoned.
Auditors The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
This report is submitted to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13(4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1210/90 of 7 May 1990J1).
The Court has audited the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 13(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director.
The latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (2), complying with the internal financial rules laid down in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 0). The Court of Auditors is required to audit these accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards as far as these are applicable to the Community context.
He carried out audits of the accounts and other audit procedures considered necessary in this context.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and, as a whole, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are assured.
Main remarks on the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Subsidy from the Commission 1.5.
In the course of the 1995 financial year, the Agency entered only part of the
(2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 13(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts of all revenue and expenditure of the Agency for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 20 June 1996, signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and sent to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court of Auditors on June 29, 1996.
The tables appended to this report present these financial statements in condensed form. Commission subsidy used (budget: ECU 12 million — appropriations collected: ECU 6.2 million).
The Court considers that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the 1995 financial year for the outstanding balance (ECU 5.8 million) in order to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 7 million in total). . Overrun 1.6.
Several overruns totaling around ECU 0.4 million were recorded under Titles I (Expenditure on staff) and II (Expenditure on materials) of the budget.
This amount, which could not be charged to the 1995 budget, is shown on the assets side of the balance sheet in a holding account and must be charged to the 1996 budget (infringement of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Financial Regulation for the agency).
Paying agent 1.7.
Almost all payments charged to Titles I and II of the budget were made through a imprest account.
The use of this imprest account is not compatible with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Agency, since the imprest administrator at the time was both the accounting officer and the manager of some budget lines.
Furthermore, the deadlines for submitting supporting documents were not met and the availability of the funds committed for payments was not checked.
This appears to be the main reason for the above budget overruns.
Transfers of funds 1.8.
As at the end of the 1994 financial year, a very high proportion of the appropriations available were carried over at the end of 1995 (ECU 7 million — 57.2% of the total budget).
Most of the carry-overs concerned Title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6.4 million — 90.3% of the appropriations entered in this title).
A large part (ECU 1.8 million) of the appropriations carried over from 1994 to 1995 amounting to ECU 8.5 million had to be canceled (21% of the appropriations carried over).
No C 81/44 ΓΟΕ' Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Subsequent referral to the Financial Controller 1.9.
Several commitment requests amounting to ECU 0.5 million were subsequently submitted to the Financial Controller.
In these cases, the financial controller withheld his approval, which the Board of Directors overrode.
The Court underlines the obligation to respect the financial regulation, according to which 'any action likely to result in expenditure against the budget' (Article 27 of the Agency's financial regulation) must be subject to a proper prior commitment request. Segregation of duties 1.10.
Segregation of duties was not respected in the administrative department of the agency.
Due to the lack of staff in the accounting/financial area, the same person was simultaneously accounting officer, imprest administrator and appropriations manager/authorizing officer of some budget lines.
Accounting systems 1.11.
Two independent, unconnected systems are used for the budgetary accounts and for the general accounts.
In addition, the budgetary accounting system does not provide for any blocking in the event of overruns of available or committed appropriations.
Financial controller 1.12.
The Management Board has appointed the Financial Controller of the Commission as Financial Controller.
The Court considers it appropriate, on the basis of the Agency's current working methods, to assign a full-time financial controller. This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 28 October 1996 in Luxembourg. For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI EDMANN President
13. 3. 97 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/45 Assets Fixed assets 1. Fixed assets 2. Equipment and furniture 1994 153 650 (ECU 1 000) 1995 Liabilities 1994 1995 Operating assets 1. Office supplies 9 Subtotal 812 ' 153 2 209 9 2 371 172 5 740 32 5 944 3 243 421 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Result to be carried over Subtotal Appropriations carried over 1. Non-automatic transfers of funds 2. Automatic transfers of funds Subtotal 812 193 1005 1 5 8 2 6 932 8 514 3 - 240 9 762 2 371 1844 4 215 989 5 997 6 986 0 778 11979 Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected 2. Commission subsidy to be collected 75 850 3. Various cash accounts 1. Bank accounts Custodian accounts 1. Expenditure to be booked Debtor Subtotal 925 TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET 31 DECEMBER 1995 Total assets Source: Court's presentation based on information produced by the Agency.
Total liabilities 0 8 025 Short-term 1. Salary deductions 0 9 762 Deposit accounts 11979 Liabilities
1994 9 312 850 58 10 220 574 1 0 0 7 (1 000 ECU) 1995 6 219 5 740 362 12 321 2 896 202 1488 320 637 6 465 32 421 0 12 461 140 . 193 1 791 1844 1 6 10 767 187 165 320 0 0 7 027 193 0 0 193
• The European Environment Agency was set up in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was approved on 31 October 1994.
Since the decision on the location of the Agency had been delayed, work had to be done particularly quickly when the Environment Agency began its work.
Thanks to a great deal of work, projects were identified and commitments made before the end of the year, but for obvious reasons the implementation of the commitments could hardly begin before the end of 1994.
Thus in 1995 the Agency faced the difficult task of implementing not only the 1994 budget but also a new budget of ECU 10.5 million for 1995, before the Agency's regular staff had taken up their duties.
The vacancies in the agency were advertised in November 1994 and after a lengthy selection process with over 7,000 applications, the first selected candidates began work in the summer of 1995.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work program and practically two budgets to implement, but had a very limited number of staff to do the job.
Nevertheless, work progressed and in 1995 major projects such as the Dobris Status Report and the revision of the 5th Environmental Action Plan were completed.
Five European topic-specific contact centers have been set up and the establishment of the EIONET has progressed.
The Agency's regular staff increased from 1 person on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary agents such as national experts and support staff) and reached 22 regular agents on 31 December 1995, with 10 temporary agents remaining stood aside.
The Agency's administrative machinery was gradually expanded as the same open recruitment procedure was followed.
Nonetheless, in 1995 the Agency was clearly understaffed to handle the procedural and financial aspects of the work.
As far as the financial side is concerned, only one person was available in the first half of the year to handle the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work programme.
In June 1995, the head of the administration department took up his post, and it was not until early 1996 that the remaining financial and contractual staff were added.
The Agency has performed its task, but in the area of finance and budget some mistakes have been made in relation to the prescribed procedures.
Overruns Some budget lines have been overrun.
This was partly because the agency's budgetary control system was not functioning satisfactorily and partly because some payments made were not accounted for as the agency's finance department was clearly understaffed.
Consequently, when the accounts were closed, there was a discrepancy between the accounts and the payments actually made, which appeared as an overrun on certain budget lines.
Since after 1 January there will be no more transfers between different budget lines, these amounts must be included in the 1996 accounts, ie financed from the 1996 budget.
In 1996 the expenditure and the appropriations available under Titles I and II (ie the problems of 1995) were carefully controlled to avoid overspending.
Non-compliance with procedures (ex-post referral to the Financial Controller) A work program was drawn up during the establishment phase of the Agency and its implementation started before the administrative procedures were clearly defined and an appropriate management structure was in place to monitor compliance with the procedures.
In some cases this has resulted in work being commissioned and carried out in violation of certain procedural rules.
In particular, work was commissioned without first obtaining the approval of the Financial Controller in Brussels, which is a prerequisite for this type of operational expenditure.
The error was purely procedural, because work had to be done but the necessary administrative structures to ensure compliance with the rules laid down by Brussels were not yet in place.
There is a clear delegation of authorizing powers and staff are aware of the procedural rules.
Separation of duties As in all public institutions, certain functions of a financial nature should also remain separate at the Environment Agency.
One of the basic principles is that commitments and disbursements should not be made by the same person.
However, when the agency was being set up in Copenhagen, the number of staff was so low that this principle could not be adhered to.
The Court of Auditors rightly criticizes this fact.
In the case of the Environment Agency, the Financial Controller of the Agency and that of the Commission are one and the same person based in Brussels.
The Agency's work would be significantly hampered as a result.
The way out of this dilemma is to set up a paying agency.
In principle, it works like a small cash reserve, although the amounts transacted through it are quite significant.
Instead of obtaining the prior approval of the Financial Control, the Agency orders the disbursement and once a month sends the statement of transactions made by the Paying Agency to the Financial Control for the subsequent approval.
On the one hand this facilitates the work of the paying agency, but on the other hand it is also a double-edged sword as the internal control of the agency and the finance department need to be able to cope with this additional responsibility.
In this respect, the complaint of the Court of Auditors is perfectly understandable, but as long as the financial controller is based in Brussels, the agency sees no alternative to making extensive use of the paying agency. · For this reason, the Agency has noted with great interest the Court of Auditors' recommendation that the Commission appoint a financial controller to the Agency. The Environment Agency would welcome such a move.
Computerized accounting system The Court of Auditors stresses the need for the Agency to introduce a modern accounting system covering both general accounting and budgetary control.
Such a computerized system is indispensable for the complicated financial system of the EU, if one wants to avoid that large resources are tied up in financial and budgetary work.
The Environment Agency wholeheartedly supports the Court of Auditors' conclusions.
Since the beginning of 1995, the agency has repeatedly tried to find a solution to this problem.
It turns out. Incidentally, in the same form for the other EU agencies.
In 1996 the agencies issued a joint tender, but this was unsuccessful, ie no satisfactory system was found.
That is why the agency is currently investigating the possibility of using the new Sincom 2 budget control system.
It is planned to be installed and operational in time to implement the 1997 budget.
But there will still be one software for budgetary control and another for general accounts.
The payment offices will also not be integrated into the software. The Agency will continue to look for an appropriate solution to these problems and will endeavor to coordinate this work with the other Agencies.
13. 3. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/49 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA-Lisbon), together with the Centre's replies (97IC 81/07) (period from 1 November 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1 This report was submitted to the Management Board of the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction in accordance with Article 11(11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 of 8 February 1993 n. 1.2.
The Court has audited the financial statements of the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 11(8) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), the budget has been implemented under the responsibility of the Director.
According to Article 11(10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 3294/94 of 22 December 1994 (3), this is also responsible for: create and present the invoice (4).
The Court of Auditors is required to audit these accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report of the Observatory's first audit.
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards as far as these are applicable to the Community context.
He has checks of the-. accounting . carried out and other examination procedures deemed necessary in this context applied.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and. Overall, the regularity of the underlying transactions is guaranteed. (») OJ.
Main remarks on the implementation of the budget of the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Subsidy from the Commission 1.5.
In the 1995 financial year, the Center issued a recovery order and recovered only 57% (ECU 3 million) of the subsidy.
In the Court's view, the Center should have issued a recovery order for the ECU 2.3 million (ECU 5.3 million in total) entered in the balance sheet in order to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 2.8 million). be able.
Subsidy from the Portuguese government 1.6.
An amount of ECU 614 015 (including interest) made available by the Portuguese Government to the Observatory for the renovation of the headquarters does not appear as revenue in the budget but only in the balance sheet.
Accounting for budgetary transactions 1.7.
Under certain circumstances, this can lead to budget overruns.
Paying agent 1.8.
During 1995 the Observatory channeled a large proportion (45%) of its expenditure through paying agencies.
The systematic use of the imprest procedure is not compatible with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the Centre, which only provides for this procedure for certain types of expenditure.
Furthermore, the settlement of these expenses was delayed because the receipts had to be sent to the financial controller in Brussels. Transfers of funds 1.9.
In 1995, significant appropriations were carried over to 1996, namely ECU 2.8 million, representing 52% of the Centre's budget.
Some appropriations carried over from 1994 to 1995 (a total of ECU 4.607 million) had to be canceled (ECU 0.368 million, ie 8% of the appropriations carried over).
Separation of Duties 1.10.
Financial Controller 1.11.
In view of the current situation, the internal control system could be improved by assigning a financial controller on the spot. at its meeting of October 28, 1996 in Luxem For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI EDMANN President
13. 3. 97 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/51 Assets 1994 Fixed assets 1. Fixed assets 0 2. Equipment and furniture 0 Operating assets 1. Office supplies 0 Subtotal 0 Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected 0 2. Subsidy to be collected 681 (1 000 ECU) 1995 Liabilities 1994 1995 Commission 3. Miscellaneous cash accounts 1. Bank accounts 3 049 0 1 3 050 0 2 350 4 2 354 2 162 0 7 566 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Carrying over result sub-total Appropriations carried over 1. Non-automatic transfers of funds 2. Automatic transfers of funds sub-total 0 35 35 365 -4 243 4 608 5 0 0 0 4 648 3 050 1294 4 344 1672 1063 2 735-99 388 0 388 7 566 Debtor 0 Subtotal 681 3 967 .
Current 1. Salary deductions Liabilities Total liabilities
2350 145 609 6 104 706 135 868 431 1 2 5 3 2 170 5 563 541 35 864 1440 Result to be transferred Source: Court's presentation based on the information provided by the Observatory. 157 4 608 4 765 35 35
3/13/97 | ΡΕ ~ | Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/53 The following comments concern the main observations made by the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the EMCDDA budget for the financial years 1994 and 1995 (points 1.5 to 1.11 of the Court's observations).
The EMCDDA shares the Court's view that it would have been more appropriate to issue a recovery order for all appropriations entered in the balance sheet as Commission subsidy and this was done for the 1996 financial year. b) Subsidy from the Portuguese government (point 1.6 of the Court's observations) The EMCDDA has acted in accordance with the instructions of the Financial Controller of the Commission (who is also the Financial Controller of the EMCDDA). within the meaning of Article 54 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and Article 82 of the implementing rules for the same (in accordance with the spirit of Article 142 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities), the EMCDDA has initially for the purposes referred to in Article 54 of the above The paying agency procedure is used for the expenditure shown in the implementation regulations.
However, the EMCDDA is aware that this can only be a temporary system (based on Excel files) and that it needs a more efficient accounting system.
In this context, the decentralized agencies (including the EMCDDA), coordinated by the European Training Foundation in Turin, published a call for tenders at the end of December 1995 with the aim of equipping themselves with an integrated computerized system for general and budgetary accounting .
No. C 81/54 | EN | Official Journal of the Communities 13. 3. 97 For the following financial years, the EMCDDA is implementing a plan for programming and monitoring the implementation of the budget and its work program with the aim of improving the use of the appropriations allocated and, in particular, limiting carry-overs to exceptional cases only. f) Segregation of duties (point 1.10 of the Court's observations) C Due to its very limited staff in 1994 and 1995, the EMCDDA could not fully ensure compliance with the principle of segregation of duties, as pointed out by the Court of Auditors.
The separation of duties of authorizing officer, financial controller and accounting officer required by Article 16 of the OEDT Financial Regulations for the duties of the authorizing officer has been fully respected.
The EMCDDA is already making efforts to ensure segregation of duties in carrying out the various tasks in question.
In this context, it takes into account, as far as possible, the requirements communicated by the Court of Auditors when defining its short-term staffing needs, in order to ensure that the administrative tasks mentioned by the Court (imprest administration, accounting, administration of staff and contracts) are carried out by different people.
Appropriate proposals will be submitted to the EMCDDA Management Board. g) Financial Controller (point 1.11 of the Court's observations) When adopting the EMCDDA Financial Regulations in June, the Management Board of the EMCDDA took a negative decision regarding the delegation of the tasks of Financial Controller to an EMCDDA staff member (particularly following the objection of the European Commission).
Furthermore, since the financial controller of the European Commission is also the financial controller of the EMCDDA, it would be up to the Commission to check on the spot the feasibility of appointing a financial controller, taking into account how this matter is regulated in the other decentralized agencies.
Price ECU "L + C" Paper edition (*) 700 "L + C" Job advertisements Microfiches (*) Γ) 595 30 Supplement to the Official Journal (Calls for tender and public contracts) Calendar year 1997 Paper edition CDROM 800 600 bis 32 pages 6.50 bis 64 pages 13 more than 64 pages Case-related pricing BELGIQUE/BELGIE Moniteur beige/Belgisch Staatsblad Rue de Louvain 4042/ Leuvenseweg 4042 Β1000 Bruxelles/Bnjssel Tél.
(322) 552 22 11 Fax (322) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B1060 Bruxelles/Brussel Tel.
(322) 538 51 69 Fax (322) 538 08 41 Email: jean.de.lannoy@infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Bookhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 B1040 Bruxelles/Brussel Tel.
(322) 295 26 39 Fax 322 735 08 60 DANMARK JH Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 1012 DK2620 Albertslund Tlf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 GERMANY Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 7880 PO Box 10 05 34 D50667 Cologne Tel.
(49221)20 290 Fax 49221)20 29 278 GREECE/ΕΛΛΑΔΑ GC Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR105 64 Athens Tel.
(301)331 41 80/1/2/3 Fax (301) 323 98 21 Email: elebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνές Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR-105 64 Αθήνα Τηλ.
(301) 331 41 80/1/2/3 Τέλεφαξ (301 (323 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37 E28001 Madrid Tel.
(341) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (341) 575 39 98 Email: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: viiww.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficial del Estado Trafalgar, 2729 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 45 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 phone
(3531)661 31 11 Fax (3531 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 150125 Firenze Tel.
(3955)64 54 15 Fax (3955) 64 12 57 Email: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/ biblioVvetrina/licosa/tt1 .htm GRANDDUCHÉ DE LUXEMBOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L2411 Luxembourg Tel.
(352)40 10 20 Fax(352)490 661 Email: mdl@pt.lu Subscriptions: Messageries Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags und Universitätsbuchhandlung GmbH Siebenbrunnengasse 21 P.O. Box 1 A1050 Vienna Tel.
(431)53 161 334/340 Fax (431) 53 161 339 Email: ausliefer@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa NacionalCasa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira , 16 A Ρ1050 Lisboa Codex Tel.
(3511)353 03 99 Fax (3511) 353 02 94/384 01 32 Distribuidora de Livros Bertrand Ld.° Rua das Terras dos Vales, 4 A Apartado 60037 P2701 Amadora Codex Tel.
(3511) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (3511) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlnen Kirjakauppa / Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoisesplanadi 39/ Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
(3589)121 41 Fax (3589) 121 44 35 Email: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Traktorvägen 11 PO Box 200 S22100Lund Tel.
(4646)18 00 00 Fax (4646) 18 01 25 Email: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR phone
(44171)873 9090 Fax (44171) 873 8463 URL: www.tnestationeryoffice.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blöndal Skólavördustig, 2 IS101 Reykjavik Tel.(354)5515 650 Fax 354 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 Etterstad N0606 Oslo Tel.
(4722) 97 45 00 Fax 4722 97 45 45 SWITZERLAND/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH8035 Zurich Tel.
(411)365 53 15 Fax (411) 365 54 11 Email: urs.leimbacher@ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKÂ REPUBLIKA NIS CR prodejna Konviktskâ 5 CZ113 57Praha1 Tel.
(422) 24 22 94 33 Fax (422) 24 22 94 33 Email: nkposp@dec.nis.cz URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY1509 Nicosia phone
(3572) 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (3572) 361 044 Email: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europe Hàz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(361)11 16061/11 16216 Fax (361) 302 50 35 Email: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel.
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polena Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL00950 Warsaw Tel.
(482)26 12 01 Fax (482) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dùnya Infotel AS Istiklâl Cad.
No: 469 TR80050 TünelIstanbul Tel.
(90212)251 91 96 (90312)427 02 10 Fax (90212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA EuropressEuromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel.
(613) 9417 53 61 Fax (613) 9419 71 54 CANADA Uniquement Abonnements/ Subscriptions only: Renouf Publishing Co. Ltd 1294 Algoma Road K1B 3W8 Ottawa, Ontario Tel.
(1613)741 73 33 Fax (1613) 741 54 39 Email: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/renouf EGYPT The Middle East Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.
(813)3234 69 21 Fax (813)ι 3234 69 15 Email: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psijapan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146Sandton Tel.
(2711)883 37 37 Fax (2711)883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611 F Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) Email: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MÉXICO MundiPrensa Mexico, SA de CV RfoPânuco, 141 Delegation Cuauhtemoc ME06500 México DF phone
(525) 553 56 58/60 Fax (525) 514 67 99 Email: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
Phyung HwaBldg 4112 Hap Jeong Dong, Mapo Ku 121220 Seoul Tel.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please contact a sales office of your choice E28071 Madrid Tel. (341) 538 22 384 17 Fax (341) 538 23 384 17 URL: www.boe.es 95 (Libras)/ 15 (Suscripciones) 49 (Libros) / 14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR10000 Zagreb Tel.
(3851) 43 03 92 Fax (3851) 44 40 59 ROMANIA Euromedia Str.
(401) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax 401 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Knlznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(427)53 18 364 Fax (427) 53 18 364 Email: europ@tbb1.sltk.stuba.sk SLOVENIA Gospodarski Vestnlk Zalozniska skupina dd
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 Email: belied ©gvestnik.si URL: www.gvesfnik.si ISRAEL ROY International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
(9723) 546 14 23 Fax (9723) 546 14 42 Email: royil@netvision.net.il Subagent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 117312 Moscow Tel. (095) 135 52 27 Fax (095) 135 52 27 Mundi Prensa Barcelona Conseil de Cent, 391 E08009 Barcelona Tel.
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 1 of 5 Avis juridique important 31997Y0313(06) Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies Official Journal C 081 , 13/03 /1997 P. 0043 - 0048 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/06) (For the period from 1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1 .
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Court of Auditors examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accordance with the requirements of Article 13 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in accordance with the internal financial provisions set out in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
This report constitutes the first audit of the Agency.
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
The court carried out checks on the accounts and records and also applied such additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are presented in the second part of this report.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the underlying operations were carried out, on the whole, in accordance with the rules concerning legality and regularity.
Main observations concerning the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 The Commission subsidy 1.5.
During the financial year 1995 the Agency used only part of the Commission subsidy provided for in the general budget (ECU 12 million, of which ECU 6.2 million was drawn down).
It is the Court's opinion that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the financial year 1995 for the balance remaining due (ECU 5.8 million) in order to meet the commitments that were carried over to the financial year 1996 (totaling ECU 7 million).
Spending in excess of available appropriations 1.6.
Several cases of expenditure in excess of available appropriations, amounting to approximately ECU 0.4 million altogether, were found under titles I (staff expenditure) and II (administrative expenditure) of the budget.
This http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 2 of 5 amount, which could not be charged to the budget for 1995, which entered on the assets side of the balance sheet in a suspense account, and had to be charged to the budget for the financial year 1996 (contravention of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Imprest account 1.7.
Almost all payments charged to the budget under titles I and II were made via an imprest account.
The utilization of this account was not in accordance with Article 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, since the administrator of the imprest accounts was, at the time, both the Accounting and the Authorizing Officer for certain budget headings.
Furthermore, the deadlines for the submission of supporting documents were not met and the availability of appropriations committed was not verified before payments were made.
This situation seems to be the principal cause of the cases of spending in excess of available appropriations pointed out above.
Appropriations carried forward 1.8.
At the end of the financial year 1995, as was already the case at the end of the financial year 1994, the percentage of appropriations carried forward was very high in relation to the appropriations available (ECU 7 million - 57.2% of the total budget).
The majority of these carryovers concern title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6.4 million, representing 90.3% of the appropriations under this title).
A large share (ECU 1.8 million) of the appropriations carried over from 1994 to 1995, totaling ECU 8.5 million, had to be canceled (21% of the appropriations carried over).
A posteriori referral to the Financial Controller 1.9.
Several proposals for the commitment of funds totaling ECU 0.5 million were submitted, a posteriori, to the Financial Controller for his approval.
In these cases, the Financial Controller withheld his approval, but this refusal was overruled by the Management Board.
The Court wishes to emphasize the obligation to respect the Financial Regulation and to submit proposals for commitments in due form prior to 'any measure of a kind which might lead to expenditure from the budget` (Article 27 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Separation of duties 1.10.
The separation of duties within the administration of the Agency has not been observed.
Due to a shortage of staff in the financial accounting department, the same person was, at one and the same time, Accounting Officer, administrator of the imprest accounts and Authorizing Officer for certain budget headings.
Accounting systems 1.11.
The budgetary accounting and general accounting are carried out on two independent and unconnected computer systems.
The budgetary accounting system is, moreover, not programmed to refuse entries in the event of appropriations available, or appropriations committed, being exceeded.
The Financial Controller 1.12.
The Management Board appointed the Commission's Financial Controller as their own Financial Controller.
The Court considers it would be advisable, in respect of the Agency's present mode of operation, to appoint a full-time Financial Controller for the Agency.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 28 October 1996. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 3 of 5 For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President >TABLE> >TABLE> >TABLE> (1) OJ No L 120, 11. 5. 1990, p. 4.
(2) Contrary to the requirements of Article 13 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts for all revenue and expenditure of the Agency in respect of the financial year 1995 were not prepared until 20 June 1996, the date on which the accounts were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and sent to the Commission, to the Board of Management and to the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 28 June 1996.
The abridged version of these financial statements is presented in the tables annexed to this report.
THE AGENCY'S REPLIES The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was already adopted on 31 October 1994.
Since the decision on where to locate the Agency had been delayed a fast start was needed.
Through a significant effort, projects could be identified and the budget committed before the end of the year, but for obvious reasons the execution of the commitments could barely start before the end of 1994.
Thus, in 1995 the Agency faced the daunting task of executing, not only the budget from 1994 but also a new budget for 1995 of ECU 10.5 million, and this before the regular staff of the Agency had taken up duty.
The vacant posts in the Agency were published in November 1994 and the selected candidates started coming on board in summer 1995 after a long selection procedure involving more than 7,000 applications.
In short, the agency had an ambitious work program and virtually two budgets to execute, but very limited staff for the task.
Despite this, work went ahead and in 1995 the Agency finalized major projects, like the Dobris assessment, the review of the fifth environmental action plan.
Five European topic centers were established and the build-up of the EIONET advanced.
The build-up of the Agency progressed with regular staff increasing from 1 on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, for example national experts and auxiliary staff) to 22 on 31 December 1995, still supported by 10 temporary staff.
The Agency's administration has progressively developed since the same open procedure to recruitment was applied.
Nevertheless, it was clearly too understaffed in 1995 to handle the procedural and financial aspects of the work.
On the finance side only one person was available to handle the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work program during the first half of the year.
In June 1995 the Head of Administration took up duty, and only in the beginning of 1996 did the rest of the finance and contract staff come on board.
The Agency rose to the challenge, but some mistakes of a procedural nature were made in the areas of finance and budget.
Overspending There was overspending on some budget lines.
The reason was, on the one http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 4 of 5 hand, that the Agency's budgetary monitoring system did not function in a satisfactory way and on the other hand some executed payments were not introduced due to the fact that the Agency was seriously understaffed in the finance department.
As a consequence, when the accounts were closed, the discrepancy between the accounts and the payments actually made showed up as overspending on some budget lines.
Since no adjustment between budget lines can be made after 1 January, this has to be booked on the 1996 accounts, ie be financed from the 1996 budget.
In 1996 the expenditures and the availability of appropriations in titles I and II, which was where the problems occurred in 1995, were carefully monitored in order to avoid overspending.
Procedures overlooked (Saisine a posteriori) During the build-up of the Agency, a work program was established and started being executed before administrative procedures had been well established and an administration in place to monitor that procedures were followed.
In some cases this led to work being ordered and carried out without all the procedures being observed.
In particular, work was contracted without the Financial Controller in Brussels having given his visa which is a prerequisite for this kind of operational expenditure.
It was not a question of finances being wasted or that the finances were not there.
The mistake was procedural and reflected that work had to be done and the procedures to assure that this was done according to Community rules were not yet in place.
Procedures are now in place to avoid similar problems.
A clear delegation of authorizing powers have been established and staff informed of the rules.
Separation of functions In the financial framework of the Agency, as is the case in all public institutions, certain functions should be kept separate.
A basic principle is that the same person should not commit money and order payment.
However, during the period of establishment of the Agency in Copenhagen the number of staff in the Agency was so small that it was not possible to observe this principle.
This is rightly criticized by the Court of Auditors.
However, once the staffing of the Agency started to increase this was corrected and these functions have been rigorously separated in the Agency since autumn 1995.
Extensive use of imrest accounts The normal procedure for committing and ordering payments in the EU system is to have prior approval by the Financial Controller in practically all cases.
In the case of the Agency, the Agency Financial Controller is the same as the Commission's and located in Brussels.
To send all financial transactions to Brussels for approval before they could actually be executed would be an excessively tiresome procedure.
It would seriously obstruct the working of the Agency.
The way out of this dilemma is the impregnable account.
It works in principle as a petty-cash reserve although the amounts involved are important.
Instead of seeking prior approval from Financial Control, the Agency executes the payment and once a month the imprest account is sent to the Financial Controller to have the ex post approval of the payments which have been made.
On the one hand this facilitates the functioning of the Agency, but, on the other hand, it is a double-edged sword since the Agency's internal controls and the financial department must have the capacity to handle this additional responsibility.
Thus, the criticism by the Court of Auditors is understandable, but as long as http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 5 of 5 the Financial Controller is located in Brussels there is, in the Agency's view no alternative to an extensive use of the imprest account.
It is therefore with great interest that the Agency has noted the recommendation by the Court of Auditors that the Financial Controller of the Commission should place a Financial Controller in the Agency.
The Agency would welcome this step.
Computerized financial system The Court of Auditors underlines the need for the Agency to find an up-to-date computerized financial system which can integrate the accounting side with the budget monitoring side.
In the complicated financial system of the European Union such a computerized system is crucial to avoid having to tie down a lot of resources in financial and budgetary work.
The Agency wholeheartedly supports the conclusion by the Court of Auditors.
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has tried again and again to find a solution to this problem.
It is a problem which the European Environment Agency shares with the other EU Agencies.
In 1996, the Agencies launched a joint call for tenders to find a solution but this call for tenders has not been successful, ie no satisfactory system has been found.
Thus, the agency is at present pursuing the possibility of using the new budget monitoring system Sincom 2. The plan is to have it installed and operational in time to execute the 1997 budget on the basis of this system.
There will still be one software for the budget monitoring system and another for the general ledger.
Nor will the imrest accounts be integrated in the software the agency will continue to look for an efficient way of solving these problems and will endeavor to coordinate this work with the other agencies.
Managed by the Publications Office http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
C 309/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the annual accounts of the European Environment Agency for 2006, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/05) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION............. ..................................................
1-2 25 DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY ........................................ .....
3-6 25 NOTES ....................................................... ...............
26 Respondents from the agency ..................................... ................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/25 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Environment Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Agency's mission is to set up an environmental monitoring network that will provide the Commission, Member States and the general public with reliable information on the state of the environment.
This information is intended in particular to enable the European Union and the Member States to take environmental protection measures and to evaluate the effectiveness of these measures.
2. Table 1 summarizes the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information purposes, key information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2006.
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. This Statement of Assurance is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2). It is based on an audit of the Agency's accounts, which the Court is required to carry out under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were prepared by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 and sent to the Court, which issued a statement of reliability of the accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying processes.
5. The Court conducted its audit in accordance with the INTOSAI Auditing Standards and Code of Ethics and the IFAC International Code of Ethics, where applicable in the Community context.
The audit was planned and performed to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the statement of assurance below. Reliability of the annual accounts The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 are reliable in all material respects.
The following comments do not call into question the Court's statement of assurance.
OBSERVATIONS 7. Over 30% of the year's commitments had to be carried over.
For operational expenditure (Title III and assigned revenue), more than half of the appropriations were carried over.
Some of these carry-overs were not justified: in the last two months of 2006 the Agency made commitments of 1.3 million euro but carried over the corresponding payment appropriations to 2007.
A random examination (4) of these transfers showed that they all related to activities to be carried out in 2007.
The budgetary principle of annuality was therefore not strictly applied.
8. The authorizing officer by sub-delegation not only performed ex ante controls but also managed the access rights to the electronic accounting system, in breach of the principle of segregation of duties.
This report was approved by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of September 27, 2007 in Luxembourg.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ L 120 of 11.5.1990. (2) OJ
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on May 29, 2007 and received by the Court on July 3, 2007.
(4) Sample value: around 500,000 euros.
C 309/26 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community responsibilities under the Treaty Responsibilities of the Agency (Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990) Governance 1. Management Board Resources made available to the Agency for 2006 (Data for 2005) Main products and services in 2006 Environmental policy Objectives Tasks Final budget: Announcement of Prelude (PRospective Environmental analysis of Land Use Development in Europe). The Community's environmental policy aims at a high level of protection, taking into account the different situations in the individual regions of the Community.
It is based on the principles of precaution and prevention, on the principle of tackling environmental damage at source as a matter of priority, and on the polluter pays principle (...).
In formulating its environmental policy (...) the Community shall take into account the available scientific and technical data (...).
Introduction of a European Ń environment information and observation network and provision of objective, reliable and comparable information at European level for the Community Provision Ń for the Community and the Member States Ń of the information necessary for the elaboration and implementation of appropriate and effective environmental measures; Composition 37.1 million euros (32.1 million euros), (Article 174 of the Treaty) Contribute to data harmonization.
Source: Agency information. and the Member States, on the basis of which they Ń collect, compile and evaluate data on the state of the environment and report on the quality and pressures of the environment in the territory of the Community; Ń Two scientific personalities nominated by the European Parliament. Headcount on December 31, 2006 Publication of reports on Transport and Environment, Agriculture and Environment, Energy and Environment, Bioenergy, Air Quality, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, State of Europe's Coasts, Urban Sprawl and Management of Natural Resources, among others. a) take the necessary environmental protection measures, tasks Establishment plan posts: 115 (115), b) evaluate the results of these measures, approve the work program and monitor its implementation. occupied: 110 (107). + 47 (34) other posts c) ensure that the public is properly informed about the state of the environment.
Ń Promotion of the comparability of environmental data at European level and, if necessary, promotion of greater harmonization of measurement methods by appropriate means; 2. Executive Director By the Governing Board on the proposal of the (auxiliaries, seconded national experts, local agents, agency workers).
Seminars organized in the framework of the Council Presidency. Ń promoting the inclusion of European environmental information in international programmes; 3. Consultation Forum One representative from each Member State; Most of these account for Ń publication of a report on the state, development and prospects of the environment every five years; 4. Scientific Advisory Board Consists of Ń administrative activities in particular in the environmental field: 42 (42), Ń promoting the development of environmental forecasting methods and methods for assessing the costs of environmental damage and promoting the exchange of information on the technologies available for environmental damage prevention; 5. External control European Court of Auditors.
Ń Promotion of the development of methods for assessing the costs of environmental damage and the costs of precautionary, protective and remedial measures in the area of the environment.
Table 1 European Environment Agency (Copenhagen) Ń one representative from each Member State, update of the European Pollutant Emission Register (EPER).
Ń two representatives of the Commission, Community contribution: 75%(84%).
commission appointed.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/27 Source of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community grants 27 650 5 264 4 200 27 650 5 115 1 798 Title I Staff 16 013 2 926 16 013 2 912 15 692 2 623 8 681 308 13 508 386 122 Other grants Other revenue Title II Material expenditure 283 19 895 836 59 Operating income Total 37 114 34 563 Total 27 352 Community grants Other grants Other grants 3.3 5 633 Subjects 1 866 45 Occupings Short -term claims 2 611 13 423 Long -term claims 494 Personnel expenses other administrative expenses Company expenses 14 500 795 4 843 000 46 528 621 4 700 34 363 đ1830 7 22 Đ1808 Cash and cash equivalents (2) 6 097 Revenue Expenditure Final budget appropriations Items recorded in the final budget of the financial year Total (b) Surplus/(loss) from operations (c = a Đ b) Accounts payable 7 779 5 016 Income from financial transactions (e) Expenses from financial transactions (f) Net assets Surplus/(loss) from non Operating activities (g = e ± f) Economic result for the year (h = c + g) Cumulative surpluses/losses 4 242 Economic result for the financial year 528 Total net assets 4 770 Liabilities and total net assets 12 548 ± 6 050 1 808 4 242 9 258 (1) Real estate tax recovery 2000-2004 (905 000 euros). Total (a) 35 601 0 Current assets 32 533 Short-term pre-financing (1) 1 151 598 1 581 482 4 491 9 258 Title III Operational expenditure 13 975 4 200 37 114 13 971 781 33 677 5 290 4 3 894 7 2.5 069 2 167 7 639 3 671 398 931 115 5 824 694 Assigned revenue 356 2006 2005 2006 Fixed assets 2005 (1 000 euro) (1 000 euro) Table 2 European Environment Agency (Copenhagen) Ń Implementation of the budget for the financial year.06 Source: data of the.06 Agency Ń This table summarizes the information reported by the Agency in its annual accounts. The collected revenues and the payments are estimated according to the method of cash-based accounting.
(2) Real estate tax recovery 2000-2004 (905 000 euros).
C 309/28 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 AGENCY'S RESPONSE The higher level of carryovers in 2007 is mainly due to exceptional events in 2006 which caused us to defer interim payments to theme centers pending satisfactory delivery of services .
The reasons for the late commitments mentioned were the requirement to enter into licensing agreements prior to January 1st of each year to maintain continuity and the time required to establish and negotiate costs and schedules for complex new work.
The Agency will continue its efforts to reduce the proportion of transmissions related to this.
The risks associated with the situation described have been assessed by management and controls have been put in place to mitigate the risks.
The remaining risk is considered acceptable.
This situation will be reassessed as part of a review of security sensitive tasks to be held in mid-2007.
C 309/40 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the 2006 annual accounts of the European Agency for Reconstruction, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/08) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION........... .................................................. ..
1-2 41 DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY ........................................ .....
3-6 41 NOTES ....................................................... ...............
42 Respondents from the agency ..................................... ................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/41 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96(1), as last amended by Regulation (EC ) Council No. 756/2006 of 28 November 2006 (2), created.
Established in 2000, the agency was originally tasked with managing the European Union's aid programs in Kosovo.
Later, her mission was extended to Serbia-Montenegro and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Agency implements institution-building and good governance programs to support the development of a market economy and the basic infrastructure for civil society.
The mandate of the agency should in principle expire on 31 December 2008.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information purposes, key information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2006.
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. This Statement of Assurance is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (3).
It is based on an audit of the Agency's accounts, which the Court is required to carry out under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (4) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 8(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5) and transmitted to the Court, which issues a statement on the reliability of the annual financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
Reliability of the accounts The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 are reliable in all material respects.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's assurance work.
OBSERVATIONS 7. The budget implementation rate was satisfactory.
However, the Agency's attention is drawn to the level of funds still to be committed, which will require special monitoring of the Agency's programs as its mandate expires at the end of 2008.
8. As regards the accounting system and the internal control system, the Court noted improvements compared to previous years, in particular as regards the monitoring of funds managed by external bodies and the application of procurement procedures.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ L 204 of 14.8.1996, p.
L 332 of 30.11.2006, p. 18.
L 248 of 16.9.2002, p. 1.
(4) The annual accounts were prepared on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 6 July 2007.
L 306 of 7.12.2000, p. 7.
C 309/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community areas of competence under the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Governance Resources made available to the Agency (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Within the limits of its competence, the Community implements economic, financial and technical cooperation activities with third countries.
These actions are complementary to actions taken by Member States and are consistent with Community development policy.
Objectives Scope Tasks Governing Body Final Budget By operational centers (main developments): (Article 181 a) operational centers in Belgrade, Pristina, Podgorica and Skopje with extensive management autonomy.
Implementation of Community assistance related to The Agency manages the main assistance programs in Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Republic of Montenegro) and in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). Beneficiaries are States, entities under the administration of the United Nations, federal, regional and local authorities, public and semi-public bodies, social partners, business support organizations, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organizations.
108 (114) positions planned in the establishment plan, (iii) supporting the establishment of a market economy and continued investment in basic infrastructure and environmental protection measures; Other posts: (iv) supporting social development and strengthening civil society.
Discharge Authority Contract staff: 29 (28) posts of which 26 (26) are occupied.
External control Local staff: 164 (170) posts, occupied posts: 157 (162).
Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Court of Auditors. SERBIA: a) Draft legislation on public administration reform; b) supply of equipment for the border guard police; c) completion of a state-of-the-art DNA laboratory; d) renovation and equipment for courts; e) Hospital Renovation Program; f) job creation through loans from the Revolving Credit Fund; g) company training measures; h) regional training centers for adults; i) economic development programs for the poorest municipalities; j) handover of new border crossings with Hungary and Croatia; k) renewal of municipal infrastructure; l) reform of the statistical office; m) Assistance in the management of direct foreign investments; n) support to vulnerable groups including minorities and returnees; o) Completion of projects for rehabilitation of power plants; p) Installation of air filter in Kostolac power station.
Euro Euro) 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/43 Community competences under the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Governance Resources made available to the Agency (information for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Source: Agency data.
MONTENEGRO: a) construction of Podgorica international airport and modernization of Tivat airport; b) Central IT database for the Ministry of the Interior; c) Support of the Agency for Personnel Administration; d) Creation of a new road construction authority and a new traffic law; e) demerger/restructuring of public electricity companies, energy efficiency strategy; f) establishment of an agency for environmental protection; g) management consulting for companies; h) Support to the Training Center for the Judiciary; i) prison reform; j) Assistance in the elaboration of an agriculture and rural development strategy.
C 309/44 DE Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 The origin of the revenue raised income assignment of the expenditure of the community 24 795 20 Title I Personal 18540 17117 187 1236 495 109 19035 187 1345 4755 1597 income Expenditure Appropriations carried over from the previous year Revenue recorded in the final budget of the financial year Appropriations in the final budget Outstanding appropriations (from the financial year and previous years) Other revenue pm
The collected revenues and the payments are estimated according to the method of cash-based accounting. (1000 Euro)
C 309/46 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 7. The Agency has a very accelerated procedure for the implementation of assistance programmes.
The last allocation of funds to the Agency for the assistance amounted to EUR 250 million in 2006, to be spread over three years, i.e. until 2009.
In the first six months of 2007, the Agency granted EUR 185 million in aid, which is 74% of an annual budget.
Therefore, the remaining amount to be awarded at the end of the mandate is expected to be small.
C 311/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Agency for Reconstruction, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/07) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION........... .................................................. ..
1-2 43 DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY ........................................ .....
3-6 43 REMARKS ..................................................... ...............
45 Agency Response ................................................ ................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/43 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96(1), as last amended by Regulation (EC ) Council No. 1756/2006 of 28 November 2006 (2).
Later, her mission was extended to Serbia and Montenegro and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The agency implements programs to promote institution building and good governance to support the development of market economies and basic infrastructure and to strengthen civil society.
2. Table 1 summarizes the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information purposes, key information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007.
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. This Statement of Assurance is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (3).
It is based on the Agency's accounts audit, which the Court is required to carry out under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (4) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 8(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5) and transmitted to the Court, who issues a statement on the reliability of the annual financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
5. The Court conducted its audit in accordance with the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAIs) and the IFAC International Code of Ethics(6) where applicable in the Community context.
The audit was planned and performed to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
L 332 of 30.11.2006, p. 18.
L 248 of 16.9.2002, p. 1.
(4) The annual accounts were prepared on 10 July 2008 and received by the Court on 16 July 2008.
(6) ISSAI stands for International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC stands for International Federation of Accountants.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the following statement of assurance: Reliability of the accounts The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 are reliable in all material respects.
The following comments do not call into question the Court's statement of assurance.
OBSERVATIONS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget was EUR 250.2 million compared to EUR 268.8 million in the previous year.
Although the implementation rate of the budget appropriations was satisfactory at the end of the year, at that time the Agency had unspent budget appropriations (453 million euros) for operational activities, namely 163 million euros not yet committed and 290 million euros for payments existing commitments.
Since the Agency's activities are designed to last several years, some of these amounts will have to be carried out beyond 2008 (the Agency's last year of existence).
8. The Agency's mandate expires on 31 December 2008.
On April 24, 2008, the European Commission adopted a decision on the transfer of the programs previously managed by the agency, on June 11, 2008 it issued a memorandum with instructions and guidelines for the transfer of the program and contractual documents.
This note does not cover all of the items on the Agency's balance sheet.
In order to formalize the transfer of all Agency programs and posts, the Agency and the Commission must sign an agreement approved by the Agency's Management Board.
This will facilitate the transfer of items and ensure that they are correctly reflected in the Agency's accounts.
C 311/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 9. The cumulative surplus of 180 million euros shown in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2007 largely reflected the funds received by the Commission from the Agency on the basis of contracts and grant agreements pre-financing made.
These, too, must be placed under the administrative responsibility of the European Commission when the agency's mandate expires.
This report was approved by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of September 18, 2008 in Luxembourg.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/45 Community areas of competence under the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Governance 1. Administrative The Agency for 2007 provided Average (data for 2006) Activities and services in 2007 Within the limits of its competence, the Community implements economic, financial and technical cooperation activities with third countries.
These actions are complementary to actions taken by Member States and are consistent with Community development policy.
Objectives Scope Tasks Final budget: By operational centers (main developments): KOSOVO: (Article 181a) administration, strengthening institutions and the rule of law; Ń Carrying out all actions necessary for the implementation of the community assistance. appointed on the proposal of the Commission.
This is attributable to operational activities b) Provision of equipment and support for the police and border police, support for the juvenile prison system; development and the strengthening of civil society. ten: 163 (171), c) introduction of per capita premiums in state primary health care institutions; The agency manages the main aid programs in Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Republic of Montenegro) and in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Beneficiaries are States, entities under the administration of the United Nations, federal, regional and local authorities, public and semi-public bodies, social partners, business support organizations, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organizations.
One representative from each Member State, two representatives from the Commission and an observer from the European Investment Bank.
250.2 million euros (268.8 million euros) a) socio-economic development aid in favor of minorities; council of auditors. of which 27 (26). Staffed: 4. Discharge Authority Total staff: 264 (273) a) Preparing legislation for the reform of public administration; Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Other posts: f) privatization of public utilities; Local staff: 165 (164) permanent posts, of which occupied: 154 (157) g) sustainable forestry and land use; administrative duties: 101 (102). d) support for privatization and enterprise training measures; b) support to civil society and the media; SERBIA:
MONTENEGRO: a) supporting the integration of refugees and internally displaced persons and supporting civil society organizations; b) strengthening of environmental management; c) improvement of road infrastructure in coastal areas; d) Support for reform of public administration: police and penitentiary system; e) unbundling/restructuring of public electricity companies, strategy to increase energy efficiency; f) management consulting for companies; g) Animal identification and registration system and management of fisheries resources.
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: a) Partnership support in the field of money laundering, corruption and organized crime, statistics, air quality, financial control; b) complete the establishment of a national animal identification system; c) Improving the performance of SMEs and setting up a human resources development fund; elaboration of a national transport strategy; d) support for civil society organizations and communities; e) Assisting in the elimination of industrial hotspots, community wastewater treatment and waste management and their health risks; f) Assistance in the planning of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; g) Assisting in the implementation of professional standards in prison administrations.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/47 Source of revenue Revenue declared for financial year Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Subsidy from the Commission 24 559 pm
23 960 4 743 Title I Personal 187021786917540 330 835 18889 17869 17673 36 6364 4770 469 1125 Other income Title II Administration 5857 469 1089 507 0 471 205 642 222 461 Operation from 120 13607 0 678806 276086 236172 439217 3417 692533 279117 236292 452824 3417 Insgesamt 250 201 251 164 Insgesamt 38286 25668 21959 14406 1921 679500 276086 236776 439217 3507 717786 301754 258735 453623 5428 Einnahmen Ausgaben Aus dem Vorjahr Ÿbertragene Mittel Im endgŸltigen Haushaltsplan des Mittel des endgŸltigen Haushaltsplans Noch Appropriations available (from the financial year and the previous year) Table 2 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Ń Implementation of the budget for the financial year 2007 committed-committed-committed-over-cancelled the pays accounts available available the pays accounts the accounted accounts wear plated Source: Agency information.
This table summarizes the data reported by the agency in its annual accounts.
The collected revenues and the payments are estimated according to the method of cash-based accounting. committed-exceeded- over-annul- issued-exposed-exceeded-over- annul-(1 000 Euro)
C 311/48 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) - Summary of the economic outturn for the financial years 2007 and 2006 5.12.2008 Operating income Community grants Other income Operating expenses Personnel expenses General expenses Other administrative expenses Operating expenses Total (a ) 2007 255 537 1 243 780 16 724 454 225 568 158 8 622 36 đ36 8 586 (1,000 euros) 2006 273 273 432 164 519 764 3 668 25 đ 25 3 643 Total (b) Surpluses/(losses) from operating activities (c = a Đ b) Expenses from financial transactions (d) Surpluses/(losses) from non-operating activities (e = Đ d) Economic result for the year (f = c + e) Source: Agency information. This table summarizes the data reported by the agency in its annual accounts.
These annual financial statements are prepared using the accrual accounting method.
Table 4 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Ń Statement of Assets as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 Fixed Assets Intangible Assets Tangible Assets Long Term Receivables Current Assets Current Pre-financing Current Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Current Liabilities Provisions for Risks and Liabilities Accounting Liabilities Reserve Accumulated Losses Economic result of the year total liabilities NettoMšgen NettoPital 2007 41 529 179 810 30 329 255 826 1 189 108 80 529 166 943 8 586 175 529 2006 70 743 10 175 166 885 24 562 51 991 254 425 1 986 85 496 87 482 166 943 163 300 3 643 166 943 Source: Agency data. This table summarizes the data reported by the agency in its annual accounts.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/49 THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 7. At the end of 2007, given the multiannual nature of the CARDS programmes, the Agency was still able to proceed with commitments and payments for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 annual programmes.
For CARDS, the deadline for committing funds is 2009 and for payment is 2010.
The cost of these three ongoing programs amounted to EUR 1.8 billion.
The fact that EUR 163 million (9%) is still committed and a total of EUR 453 million (25%) is still to be paid three years before the CARDS deadline shows a very high execution rate.
The Court praised the Agency's performance in its Special Report No 5/2007 (OJ C 285, 27.11.2007, p. 1).
8. The Agency will do everything in its power to make this transfer successful.
She is in the process of drafting agreements for the sale of items from her assets to various EU institutions.
In addition, the Agency is in contact with the Commission to formalize all aspects of the transfer and will present the outcome to the Management Board for approval.
C 311/20 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Aviation Safety Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/04) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION........... .................................................. ..
1-2 21 DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY ........................................ .....
3-6 21 NOTES ....................................................... ...............
23 Respondents from the agency ..................................... ................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/21 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2002 (1 ) built.
The main tasks of the agency are to maintain a high level of civil flight safety, to ensure the proper further development of civil flight safety, to develop certification specifications and to issue certificates for aeronautical products.
2. Table 1 summarizes the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information purposes, key information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007.
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. This Statement of Assurance is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2). It is based on the Agency's accounts audit, which the Court is required to carry out under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were prepared by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 49 of Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and sent to the Court, which issued a statement of reliability of the accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying processes.
5. The Court conducted its audit in accordance with the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAIs) and the IFAC International Code of Ethics(4) where applicable in the Community context.
L 240 of 7.9.2002, p. 1.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on 30 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
(4) ISSAI stands for International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC stands for International Federation of Accountants.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the following statement of assurance: Reliability of the accounts The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 are reliable in all material respects.
OBSERVATIONS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget was EUR 72.0 million compared to EUR 66.0 million in the previous year.
The Agency's budget is financed from fees and charges for issuing or amending certificates and approvals by the Agency and from the Commission's contribution.
8. The 2007 establishment plan included 467 temporary agent posts, an increase of 139 posts compared to the 2006 establishment plan.
As appropriations for staff expenditure did not cover actual staff expenditure, the Agency decided to reduce the number of recruitments and agreed with the Commission to limit the number of its posts to a maximum of 342, of which 333 were occupied at the end of the year.
However, the establishment plan was not adjusted accordingly.
The Agency should carefully check the validity of the expenditure estimates submitted to the budgetary authority for approval.
9. In accordance with the new Schedule of Fees (5) in force since 1 June 2007, the Agency classified funds of 14,9 million euro as assigned revenue to cover future costs for the issuance of licences/certificates.
However, this amount was overestimated as it also includes fees charged under the provisions of the old fee schedule.
(5) Commission Regulation (EC) No. 593/2007 of 31 May 2007, OJ.
C 311/22 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 10. In one procurement procedure, the situation for bidders was opaque due to the lack of clear and complete information about the award criteria and their respective weighting on the one hand and the method used for the financial evaluation on the other.
In three other cases (1) a restricted procedure was carried out following a call for expressions of interest, although the total value of the services to be provided was above the threshold for opening an open procedure.
This report was approved by the Court of Auditors at its meeting of 24th and 25th September 2008 in Luxembourg.
For the Court of Auditors V'tor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President (1) Approximate total value: 2.5 million euros over a period of four years.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/23 Community areas of competence under the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the Parliament and of the Council) Governance Resources made available to the Agency in 2007 (data for 2006) Products and Services Common Transport Policy Objectives Actions to be taken by the Agency 1. Management Board Composed of one representative from each Member State and one representative from the Commission; he appoints an advisory body of interested parties.
Final budget: Opinions: The Council can decide by a qualified majority whether, to what extent and according to which procedures appropriate regulations for maritime transport and aviation are to be enacted. Maintaining a uniform, high level of safety in civil aviation safety in Europe and ensuring the proper maintenance and further development of civil aviation safety.
(Article 80 of the Treaty) International cooperation: Source: Information provided by the Agency.
Ń Development of certification specifications, including airworthiness codes and acceptable verification methods, and any guidance for the application of Community policies; 2. Executive Director Heads the Agency and is appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Commission.
55.8 (33.2) million euros (65%), Community grant: 26.5 (31.4) million changes to certificates: specifications (15) and acceptable means of compliance and guidance (2).
Contribution from the Federal Republic of Germany (Federal Ministry of Transport) and the City of Cologne: 0.3 (1.2) million euros.
Amendments to working arrangements with the Interstate Aviation Committee (USA) and JCAB (Japan); Ń Carrying out standardization inspections at the competent authorities in the Member States; 4. External control 467 (328) posts for temporary staff in the establishment plan, admission decisions as of 12/31/2007: Ń Carrying out the necessary investigations in companies.
European Technical Specifications: 198 Court of Auditors.
Additional type certifications: 879 Total number of employees: 362 (309) of which account for Š operational activities: 277 (227), Ń administrative activities: 57 (57), Ń other activities: 28 (25).
C 311/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Source of revenue Revenue entered in the final budget for the financial year Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Appropriations carried over from previous year(s) Own revenue 42 800 26 530 40 967 26 530 Title I Personal Punished 33 624 Barded 33 086 32 152 ÿBerzrung Annulled 934 538 Fixed 286 Annulled 43 Community grants Other SHOWSSE and Ertršge 1 879 2 593 Title II Subject expenditure 9 819 764 27 155 7 956 1 596 255 17 199 611 2,585 16,381 2,504 14,238 81 2,143 Assigned revenue from fees and charges collected pm
836 14 865 326 Assigned revenue from fees and charges collected pm
14 865 326 0 326 14 865 0 500 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assigned revenue Other assigned revenue 836 Total 72 045 85 281 Total 72 045 84 996 50 402 35 094 1 414 19 252 16 985 2 2675 Appropriations of final expenditure Budget NB: Due to the rounded amounts, there may be discrepancies in the totals.
Source: Agency information.
This table summarizes the data reported by the agency in its annual accounts.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Aviation Safety Agency (Kšln) Ń Overview of the economic result for the financial years 2007 and 2006 C 311/25 Operating income Fees and charges Community grants Other grants Other income Operating expenses Personnel expenses Material expenses Other administrative expenses Company expenses in total (A) 2007 44 166 1 608 55 500 310 1 392 10 008 22 360 670 605 17 588 6 258 (1,000 euros) 2006 35 173 401 2 021 340 63 978 573 6 436 27 798 58 586 5 349 263 19 244 5 593 Total (b) Surpluses/(losses) from operating activities (c = a Đ b) Income from financial transactions (e) Expense from financial transactions (f) Surpluses/( Losses) from non-operating activities (g = e ± f) Economic outturn for the year (h = c + g) Source: Agency data.
These annual financial statements are prepared using the accrual accounting method. Table 4 European Aviation Safety Agency (Cologne) - Statement of assets as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 (1,000 euros) 2006 268 1,719 0 0 13,881 24,056 39,924 639 30,663 31,302 8,622 5 9,292 5 8 622 Approaching Vermaid Intangible investment values MAKE SACES CONSTRUCTION FROMMENTS Short -term pre -financing Start -ups 0 Short -term claims Cash and cash -Šquivalent Short -term liabilities for risks and liabilities billing liabilities Reserves Cumulative † Berschssse/Lossing Economic result of total compensation Netto. 14,880 8,622 6,258 14,880 2007 274 1,542 Source: Agency data.
These annual financial statements are prepared using the accrual accounting method.
C 311/26 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 8. During the first two years of implementation of the fee schedule, the Agency's revenues were not sufficient to cover the total estimated costs.
Therefore, as a precaution, the agency decided to limit its recruitment.
This was reflected in the Human Resources Policy Plan 2008-2010 agreed with the Commission.
9. In 2007, during the transition phase, the old and the new schedule of fees were applied equally.
The calculation of the assigned revenue from the fees and charges is in line with Article 64(5) of the Basic Regulation ((EC) No. 216/2008), which states that the fees and charges, including those collected in 2007, are earmarked revenues are.
Indeed, the Basic Regulation does not provide that fees collected under the previous Regulation are to be excluded.
The exact method of calculation was submitted to the Budget Committee of the Governing Body (28 May 2008).
10. The Agency is fully aware of the need to strictly comply with the Commission's procurement rules.
She will take particular care to inform potential bidders in detail about the award criteria and their evaluation.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/55 REPORT on the 2006 annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency, together with the agency's replies (2007/C 309/10) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION........ .................................................. .....
1-2 DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY ........................................ ....
3-6 REMARKS ..................................................... ..............
Responding agency ..................................................... ...............
Number page 56 56 56 58 61
C 309/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June Built in 2002 (1).
The Agency's tasks include ensuring a high level of safety at sea, preventing pollution from ships, providing scientific and technical support to the Member States and the Commission, and monitoring the application of Community legislation and evaluating its effectiveness.
2. Table 1 summarizes the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. This Statement of Assurance is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It is based on an audit of the Agency's accounts, which the Court is required to carry out under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were prepared by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and sent to the Court, which issued a statement of reliability of the accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying processes.
5. The Court conducted its audit in accordance with the INTOSAI Auditing Standards and Code of Ethics and the IFAC International Code of Ethics, where applicable in the Community context.
L 208 of 5.8.2002, p. 1.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on June 13, 2007 and received by the Court on June 27, 2007.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the statement of assurance below. Reliability of the accounts The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 are reliable in all material respects.
OBSERVATIONS 7. More than 43% of payment appropriations had to be canceled at the end of 2006.
In addition, there was an accumulation of transactions in the last quarter of the year, as a result of which the budgetary principle of budgetary truth was not strictly observed.
8. The budget and establishment plan were not drawn up with the necessary precision, resulting in a high number of appropriations carried over (4), inappropriate recruitment planning (5) and inaccurate budget presentation (6).
9. Legal commitments were made before the corresponding budgetary commitments were made (7).
Some contracts provided for 100% pre-financing, which is not in line with the principle of sound financial management (8).
(4) More than 35 appropriations carried over in 2006.
(5) Failure to meet recruitment targets resulted in a transfer of appropriations reducing budget line 1 100 (basic salaries) by EUR 1.2 million.
(6) The budget provides an overview of the schedules for payments due in forthcoming financial years as a result of commitments made in previous financial years (Article 31(2)(c) of the Agency's financial regulation).
(7) Four cases with a total value of around 345,000 euros.
(8) Article 67 of the Financial Regulation (Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23 December 2002).
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/57 10. The inventory management system has vulnerabilities to track the presence of all items.
the on; based on the records it is not possible, the actual IT equipment is not recorded in the system.
C 309/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Source: Agency data. Community competences based on the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No. 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of June 27, 2002, amended by Regulations (EC) No. 1644/2003 of July 22, 2003 and (EC ) No. 724/2004 of 31 March 2004) Governance structure 1. Management Board Appropriations made available to the Agency for 2006 (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Common transport policy Objectives Tasks Final budget 2006: Number of specifications and manuals: 49 (including reports and/or studies). ăThe Council can decide by a qualified majority whether, to what extent and according to which procedures suitable regulations for shipping and aviation are to be enactedŇ.
Ń ensuring Ń a high, uniform and effective level of safety in maritime transport and Ń in the prevention of pollution from ships; Assisting the Commission in the further development of Community legislation and in its application; Composition (Article 80 of the Treaty) Ń Scientific and technical assistance to the Member States and the Commission; Tasks 132 (95) established posts, seminars, training courses & workshops: 59 (102 days and 1 440 participants).
Ń monitor the application of the relevant Community legislation and assess the effectiveness of the existing Ń measures; Cooperation with Member States to develop technical solutions and provide assistance in the application of Community legislation; 111 (80). Ń Introduction of operational Ń methods to combat pollution of European waters.
Total staff: 131 (100), monitoring of the functioning of the Community port State control regime, which may include visits to Member States; One representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four non-voting representatives of the sectors concerned.
Inspections/tests: 47 (more than 600 business trip person days). technical assistance to the Commission in relation to port state control; Ń Approval of the budget and work program; of which occupied: promotion of cooperation between the riparian states of the affected sea areas; 2. Executive Director Pre-sponsored by the Management Board to promote cooperation between Member States and the Commission in developing a common methodology for investigating marine casualties; 3. External Control Court of Auditors. of which account for Ń operational activities - Ń providing the Commission and Member States with reliable information on maritime safety and pollution from ships; ten: 83 (65), Ń Administrative activities: Ń Assisting the Commission and Member States in identifying and tracing vessels that have made illegal discharges; Ń Verification of the classification societies recognized by the EU and submission of corresponding reports to the Commission; Ń Supporting the Commission in the registration and implementation of the tasks related to the Marine Equipment Directive; Ń Submission of information to the Commission on the implementation of the Directive on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste in European ports.
Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Ń Consideration of Member States' requests for assistance.
4. Relief authority 41 (27), Ń other activities: 7 (8).
Staff numbers at 31 December 2006: exercises at sea (operational activities): 7. 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/59 Source of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community grants 44 738 32 030 Titlel I Staff ( NGM) 13 459 2 972 12 705 10 387 1 944 664 606 2 408 161 62 99 333 248 85 Other income 0 362 ń 28 308 44 738 19 0.00 0 11 63 969 0 9 275 16 669 12 105 19 499 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 44 738 32 392 CA Total PA Total 34 287 0 1 270 1 270 494 310 184 Revenue Expenditure Appropriations of the final budget for the financial year In the final budget Revenue shown for the financial year Appropriations carried over from the previous year NGM: Non-differentiated appropriations (the commitment appropriations correspond to the payment appropriations).
GM: Differentiated appropriations (commitment appropriations do not have to correspond to payment appropriations).
PA: Payment appropriations under differentiated appropriations.
Title II Material Expenditure (NGM) Title III Operational Expenditure (GM) Table 2 European Maritime Safety Agency Ń Implementation of the budget for the financial year 2006 Ń PA 0 Source: Information provided by the Agency Ń This table shows those reported by the Agency in its annual accounts reported data summarized.
C 309/60 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Ń Economic outturn account for the financial years 2006 and 2005 19.12.2007 Operating income Community grants Other grants Operating expenses Personnel expenses General expenses Other administrative expenses Operating expenses (1) Total (a) 2006 24 716 678 25 394 9 616 236 3 548 14 151 27 551 Đ2157 0 0 0 Đ2157 (1 000 euros) 2005 15 666 0 15 666 6 099 151 2 4 251 2 4 251 2 4 2521 439 0 3 Đ3 4 435 Total (b) Surpluses/(losses) from operating activities (c = a Đ b) Income from financial transactions (e) Expenses from financial transactions (f) Surpluses/(losses) from non-operating activities (g = e Đ f) Economic outturn for the financial year (h = c + g) (1) Signature of new tanker contracts.
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Ń Statement of Assets as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 Fixed Assets Intangible Fixed Assets 55 Fixed Assets 523 Current Assets Current Pre-financing Current Receivables Cash and Cash Equivalents Current Liabilities Provisions for Risks and Liabilities Accumulated Accounting Liabilities Net Assets Surpluses/losses Economic outturn for the year Total assets Total liabilities 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 191 12 111 12 301 7 185 Đ 2 157 5 028 17 330 2006 (1 000 euros) 2005 69 455 465 7 7 455 465 5 351 811 555 7 661 2 750 4 435 7 185 14 847 Total net assets Liabilities and total net assets Source: Agency information Ń This table summarizes the information reported by the Agency in its annual accounts.
These annual financial statements are prepared using the accrual accounting method.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/61 THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 7. More than 50% of the Agency's budget has been devoted to ăactions to combat environmental pollutionŇ.
In this area, the Agency launched tenders with a view to awarding four contracts for ships specially equipped for pollution control.
Towards the end of this process, two companies decided to withdraw their bids at the last moment, so only two contracts could be awarded.
This resulted in the cancellation of a significant amount of payment authorizations at the end of the year.
8. The Agency's move from Brussels to Lisbon in 2006 had budgetary implications that were difficult to predict, including the departure of almost 20% of the staff hired.
9. The procedures for avoiding subsequent commitments will be strengthened.
The pre-financing conditions will be revised following the Court's observation.
10. The replacement of the old inventory management system by ABAC Assets in June 2007 eliminates the problems cited by the Court.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/57 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency, together with the agency's replies (2008/C 311/09) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION........ .................................................. .....
Number page 58 58 58 60 63
C 311/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June Built in 2002 (1).
The Agency's tasks include ensuring a high level of safety at sea, preventing pollution from ships, providing technical assistance to Member States and the Commission, and monitoring the application of Community legislation and evaluating its effectiveness.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information purposes, key information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007.
4. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were prepared by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and sent to the Court, which issued a statement of reliability of the accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying processes.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on 11 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
OBSERVATIONS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget was EUR 48.2 million compared to EUR 44.7 million in the previous year.
The Agency's budget is mainly financed by grants from the European Commission.
The procedures for preparing the budget were not sufficiently rigorous.
This resulted in a high number of appropriations carried over (5), misstatement of the budget (6) and irregular change of source of funding for pollution control measures (7).
8. Legal commitments were made before the corresponding budgetary commitments were made (8).
(5) More than 32 appropriations carried over in 2007.
(6) In the case of differentiated appropriations, the budget must show an schedule of payments due in forthcoming financial years as a result of commitments made in previous financial years (Article 31(2)(c) of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
(7) From mid-June to December, EUR 25 million for anti-pollution measures Ń approved by the budgetary authority as ordinary appropriations (C1) Ń were unduly carried over to assigned revenue (R0).
(8) Three cases with a total value of 208 000 euros.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/59 9. Regarding the recruitment procedures under review, selection criteria and the pass mark necessary for admission to the next stage of the selection procedure had not been established before the start of the evaluation process.
At no time have staff representatives been invited by the appointing authority to take part in the recruitment process.
With this approach, no transparent and non-discriminatory procedures could be ensured.
Community areas of competence based on the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No. 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council, amended by Regulations (EC) No. 1644/2003 and (EC) No. 724/2004) Governance 1. Management Board Funds made available to the Agency for 2007 (data for 2006) Products and services in 2007 Common Transport Policy Objectives Tasks Final budget: (incomplete listing; see annual activity report for details) "The Council, acting by a qualified majority, may decide whether , to what extent and according to which procedures suitable regulations for shipping and aviation are to be issued.Ň Ń Guaranteeing a Ń high, uniform and effective level of safety in maritime traffic and Ń in the prevention of pollution from ships; Assisting the Commission in the further development of Community legislation and in its application; Composition of Title I: EUR 15 320 297 (EUR 13 400 000) (Article 80 of the Treaty) Total: EUR 48 249 058 (EUR 44 738 440) Ń Ń Scientific and technical Ń assistance to the Member States and the Commission; Ń technical assistance to the Commission in relation to port state control; Title III: 29 749 058 euros (28 433 440 euros) Ń Preparation of the technical specifications of the new THETIS project; Ń monitor the application of the relevant Community legislation Ń and assess the effectiveness of existing measures; Ń Ń Approval of the budget and the work program; Temporary and permanent staff: 153 (132) Ń Introduction of operational methods to combat pollution in European waters.
development and operation of the necessary information systems; Ń Considering Member States' requests for assistance. Staff: 13 (9) Seconded national experts to monitor the functioning of the Community port state control regime, which may include visits to Member States; one representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four non-voting representatives of the sectors concerned.
Ń Start of the activities of the maritime support services.
Ń Assisting the Commission and Member States in identifying and tracing vessels that have carried out illegal discharges; 3. External Control Court of Auditors.
Ń Verification of the classification societies recognized by the EU and submission of corresponding reports to the Commission; 4. Discharge Authority Ń Assisting the Commission in the registration and implementation of the tasks related to the Marine Equipment Directive; Ń Submission of information to the Commission on the implementation of the Directive on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste in European ports. Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Parliament on Council recommendation.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/61 Source of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community grants 48 249 37 387 Title I Staff (NGM) 15 320 3 180 11 999 3 149 11 805 1 881 194 1 267 3 321 31 664 245 419 606 523 83 other income 157 ń 29749 29 749 48 249 28132 0 0 19 295 0 32 982 141 1617 10 969 13 806 0 0 total 48 249 37 544 VE total 1 603 1 603 1 270 768 502 Revenue Expenditure Appropriations in the final budget for the financial year Revenue recorded in the final budget for the financial year Appropriations carried over from the previous year Title II Operating expenditure (NAM) Title III Operating expenditure (NAM) Non-differentiated appropriations (the commitment appropriations correspond to the payment appropriations) .
PA: Payment appropriations under differentiated appropriations.
The carryovers of the financial year in Title III concern only reused revenue (101 000 euro) and assigned revenue (Phare Đ 40 403 euro).
The collected revenues and the payments are estimated according to the method of cash-based accounting. reported bound paid out transferred canceled reported paid out canceled (1 000 Euro)
C 311/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Ń Economic outturn account for the financial years 2007 and 2006 5.12.2008 Operating income Community grants Other grants Operating expenses Personnel expenses General expenses Other administrative expenses Operating expenses Total (a) 2007 33 801 1 111 34 912 10 791 356 3 252 14 842 29 242 5 669 (1 000 euros) 2006 24 716 678 25 394 9 616 236 3 548 14 151 27 551 Result of the year (c = a Đ b) Source: Agency data.
This table summarizes the data reported by the agency in its annual accounts.
These annual financial statements are prepared using the accrual accounting method. Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Ń Statement of assets at 31 December 2007 and at 31 December 2006 (1 000 euros) 2006 55 523 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 191 12 111 12 301 5 025 7 Đ 2 157 5 028 Approaching Intangible investment values material systems circulatory investment short -term pre -financing short -term claims and cash medium -Šquivalent short -term liabilities for risks and liabilities billing reserves reserves † Berschssse/losses of the year total liabilities Netto -capital 2007 257,25. 305 15 537 10 697 5 028 5 669 10 697 Source: Agency data.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/63 THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 7. The Agency welcomes the Court's observations.
The Agency continues its efforts to improve planning and monitoring.
Particular attention is paid to forecasting and timing of payments.
The transfers necessary in 2007 are within the 10% threshold allowed by the financial regulation.
On a proposal from the Commission, the Management Board decided on 20/03/2007 to treat the anti-pollution appropriations as assigned revenue, but decided on 21/11/2007 to no longer treat these appropriations as such.
8. The measures to avoid subsequent averaging are strengthened.
The key factors are training and communication.
9. Following the Court's observations, action has been taken to ensure that the selection criteria and passing mark are set at an earlier stage in the selection process.
In the context of the forthcoming adoption of the new implementing rules on the recruitment of temporary agents, the Agency will take into account the further comments of the Court of Auditors on the approach to recruitment procedures.
Orricial J ournal c 393 Volume 40 of the European Communities 29 December197 Notice No 97/C 393/01 97/C 393/02 97/C 393/03 97/C 393/04 97/C 393/05 97/C 393/ 06 97/C 393/07 97/C 393/08 # Information and Notices Contents Page I Information Court of Auditors Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop — Salonica ), accompanied by the replies of the Center 1 Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), accompanied by the replies of the Foundation 10 Report on the Financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA, London) (Financial year 1996) together with the Agency's replies 18 Report on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM, Alicante) (Financial year 1996), together her with the Office's replies.
23 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies 29 Report on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies 35 Report on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies 41 EN 2 (Continued overleaf) Report on the financial statements of the Translation Center for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies 47
Notice No 97/C 393/09 97/C 393/10 Contents (continued) Report on the financial statements of the Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO-Angers) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the office's replies 52 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies. . . .
58 Notice to readers (see page 3 of the cover) EN
29.12.97 ΓΕΝ Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/1 (Information) COURT OF AUDITORS REPORT on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop — Salonika), accompanied by the replies of the Center (97/C 393/01) CONTENTS THE FINANCIAL STATEM ENTS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTER FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background Scope of the audit Financial data Observations concerning budgetary implementation Separation of duties Imprest account Transfers of appropriations Carryovers and cancellations of appropriations Observations concerning the revenue and expenditure account and the balance sheet Revenue Expenditure Balance sheet Audit of the Centre's premises and staff situation Temporary premises Permanent premises Staff Conclusion ANNEX — Tables 1 to 4 Replies of the Center Paragraph 29 5-8 2 5-6 2 72 82 9-13 2 92 io 2 li—12 2 133 14—21 14—15 3 16—17 3 18—20 3 21—26. 3 21 3 22-23 3 24-26 4 27-29
C 393/2 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTER FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is addressed to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 12 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (a) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (2).
2. The Court examined the financial statements of the European Center for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In accordance with Article 18 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
This responsibility included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Articles 65, 67 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1416/ 76 (3).
The Court of Auditors is required within the meaning of Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community to examine these financial statements.
3. The Court undertook its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context, and, accordingly, carried out such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996'are reliable and the underlying transactions are, as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was l established by the Council Regulation EEC No 337/75 {) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of promoting vocational training at Community level .
Cedefop commenced operations in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Salonika in 1995.
6. The same regulation defines its role as that of assisting 'the Commission in encouraging, at community level, the promotion and development of vocational and in-service training', of contributing 'to the implementation of a common vocational training policy' and especially encourage 'the exchange of information and the comparison of expertise'.
Its main tasks in the field of vocational training are 'to compile documentation, to contribute to the development and coordination of research, to disseminate useful documentation and information, to encourage and support initiatives likely to facilitate a coordinated approach (specifically in respect of the approximation of standards and the mutual recognition of certificates) and to provide a forum for all those concerned'.
Scope of the audit 7. The Court carried out a financial audit of the 1996 accounts and has reviewed the Centre's decisions concerning its temporary and permanent premises and staff situation.
Financial data 8. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Centre.
Available appropriations for the financial year 1996 amounted to ECU 14.8 million.
Commitments entered into gave rise to ECU 11.4 million in payments and ECU 2.1 million in carry-overs to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 1.3 million having been cancelled.
Appropriations carried over from the previous financial year gave rise to ECU 4.2 million in payments and ECU 0.6 million in cancellations.
Table 3 of this report gives an analysis of the utilization of the appropriations for 1996 as well as of those carried over from 1995.
Observations concerning budgetary implementation Separation of duties 9. The Center has put in place adequate procedures for the separation of duties of authorizing officer, accounting officer and imprest holder (5).
Imprest account 10. A high proportion (in 1996 74%, including salaries) of payments continue to be made prior to approval by the Financial Controller.
Last year (5) the Court recommended that the use of the .imprest account be limited to ongoing or small expenses, where' the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
A Management Board decision defining which kind of expenses may be paid thrnnph the imnrest account has been established and came into force on 1 January 1997.
Transfers of appropriations 11. The value of transfers of appropriations between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 891 600 (6% of the initial budget), down from ECU 922 000 in 1995.
29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/3 12. Following consultations with and the approval of the different services in the Commission (DG IX, DG XIX and DG XX), the Center transferred ECU 30 000 from budget line 117 6 'Other services and work sent out for translation and typing' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 0 'Auxiliaries', and ECU 40 000 from budget line 1 1 0 0 'Basic salaries' to a newly-created -created budget line 1 1 1 2 'Local agents'.
These new budget lines were created by the Centre.
The Court acknowledges the reasons for making these transfers, but notes that they are contrary to paragraph 4 (a) of Article 21 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 which states: 'appropriations may be transferred only to budget headings for which the statement of expenditure has authorized appropriations or carried a token entry'.
The same budget lines are also included in the 1997 budget with approval of the Budgetary Authority.
Carry-overs and cancellations of appropriations 13. The volume of appropriations carried over has decreased in 1996.
Nearly 77% of final appropriations for 1996 were paid out in 1996 as compared with 61% in 1995.
The percentage of commitments made and carried over to 1997 was 14% (28% in 1995).
The percentage of cancellations was 9% compared with 10% in 1995.
Table 4 shows the carry-overs from the 1996 initial budget by title and their subsequent use.
Observations concerning the revenue and expenditure account and the balance sheet Revenue 14. The EU subsidy for the Center for 1996 was ECU 14 625 000.
The Center actually requested and received ECU 14 410 000.
15. In 1996, for the first time Norway and Iceland paid the Center ECU 9 6 1 3 5 as a contribution for their participation in the work programme.
Expenditure 16. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 stipulates that contracts may be made by direct agreement where the contract involves an amount not exceeding the limit of ECU 12,000.
In the case of at least 17 study contracts and five fixed asset purchases, contracts over that limit were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of the Regulation, however all payments were approved by the Financial Controller.
17. The result of a study of delays in the submission of work by contractors for 1996 showed that 55% of the contractors did. not respect the contractual deadline.
None of the minutes of management meetings contained any evidence of a review of the performance of contractors in meeting contractual deadlines.
Balance sheet 18. The Center made an up-to-date inventory list as foreseen in Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (s).
Fixed assets of ECU 1 443 431 recorded in the 1996 balance sheet representing the historic cost of materials and furnishings.
19 At the end of the year, cash balances held by. the Center were ECU 4.1 million, down from ECU 5.9 million in 1995.
The Center is again taking responsibility for managing large cash balances.
The Court recommends the Center make its quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of its actual cash needs.
20. The balance sheet includes an amount of ECU 483 308 relating to 'VAT to recover', of which ECU 251 434 relates to the year 1995 but not yet recovered due to the move to Salonica.
The Court asks the Center to do the necessary to recover this amount as soon as possible.
With regard to the 'VAT to recover for 1996', the Center is recommended to explain to the responsible tax authorities every detail related' to this procedure to avoid funds being canceled or excessive delays in reimbursement.
Audit of the Centre's premises'and staff situation Temporary premises 21. As the Court observed last year (8), the Center had to invest ECU 120 000 to fit out the premises to make the temporary building functional and 'ready for use'.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the Center 'explained that these costs were incurred to improve the conditions for efficient functioning of the Centre', but was unable to explain who was liable to bear these costs.
Permanent premises 22. The Center and the Greek State signed on 22 June 1995, a basic agreement regarding the construction of the permanent building.
According to this agreement, the Center will pay to the Greek State ECU 6 879 750 in four equal installations of ECU 1 719 937.
The first two were paid on September 1, 1995 and September 1, 1996
This third installation has to be approved by the Budgetary Authority and the last installation will be paid when the building is handed over.
23. If approval is given by the Budgetary Authority before 1 September 1997, the Center will have paid to the Greek' State ECU 5 159 811 for the construction of the permanent building.
The construction of the building was planned to commence on 30 March 1997.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the tendering procedure, which is managed by the Greek authorities, was not yet finalized nor were any contracts signed.
As a consequence, no financial data or budget related to this investment was available for audit.
Staff 24. In 1996, the staff complement table authorized 81 posts (permanent and temporary positions), of which: 25 A, 11 LA, 15 B, 27 C and 3 D. At the time of the audit (May 1997), 78 persons were actually working in.
Salonika, of which: 60 officials and temporary officials (25 A/LA, 10 B, 23 C and 2 D), 7 national experts, 5 local agents, 3 auxiliaries, 2 interims and 1 'stagiaire'.
25. Another three persons are working at Cedefop's office in Brussels, one person is seconded to Eurostat for a cooperative project, three persons we're still in Berlin, This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors and 13 November 1997. Four staff members are on special leave (CCP) and one person has been ill for many months.
Many new members of staff have been recruited during 1996.
26. The Court has been informed of an investigation by the Greek tax authorities concerning, among others, tax and social security payments for local staff put at the disposal of Cedefop by a company in Salonika.
Conclusion 27. In the case of at least 17 study contracts and five fixed-asset purchases, contracts over the limit of ECU 12000 were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (see paragraph 16).
28. The Center once again holds large cash balances.
This situation should be avoided by making quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of actual cash needs (see paragraph 19).
29. The Center is recommended to make sure that the work concerning the permanent premises is progressing in conformity with the contract (see paragraph 23). in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President (!)
OJL39, 13.2.1975, p.1.
(2) OJ L 181, July 23, 1993, p. 11.
(3) OJ L 164, June 24, 1976, p. 1.
(4) OJ L 181, July 23, 1993, p. 15
(5) Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1995 of the European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop — Thessalonica).
29. 12. 97 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/5 Fixed assets 1. Furniture Current assets Fixed capital 1. Stocks 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Advances 4. VAT to recover 5. Expenditure to be charged Cash accounts 1. Bank account 2. Imprest account Sums to be recovered Assets 1996 1 4 4 4 7 66 8 483 294 3 151 882 29 ■ 1995 941 7 10 9 251 1962 5 360 504 16 Liabilities 1. Own capital 2. Balance for the financial year Current liabilities 1. Salary deductions 2. Other liabilities Sums to be reused Appropriations carried over Payments in progress Sums to be collected 1996 1450 1623 82 654 133 2 151 242 29 6 364 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 948 .2 013 482 558 326 4 668 '49 ♦ 16 9 060 6 364 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 9 060
Total expenditure (b)
29. 12. 97 ΓΕΝ Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/7 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure not provided for Total Definitive 7 839 3 008 3 974 14 821 Payments 6 225 (79 ,42) 2,667.
(88.65) 2,492 (62.71) 11,384 (76.81) Carry-overs 510 (6.5) 258 (8.59) 1,383 (34.8) 2,151 (14.52) Canceled 1,104 (14.08) 83 (2.76) 99 (2.49) 1286 (8.67) Available 1287 864 2 664 10 4 825(*) 1213 (94.32) 757 (87.52) 2 229 (83 .67) 10 (100.00) 4 209 (87.23) Canceled 74 (5.68) 107 (12.38) 435 (16.33) 0 (0.00) 616 (12.77) TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — UTILIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPRO ATI ONS The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available appropriations. (*) ECU 4 668 287 (31.12.1996) + ECU 156 500 (non-automatic carry-overs) Source: Prepared'by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop.
1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 —CARRY-OVERS FROM THE 1996 INITIAL BUDGET Staff Administrative expenditure Operational expenditure Carry-over from 1996 509 8 8 3 258 0 4 3 1 383 122 Carry-over as percentage of initial Budget 6.5 8.59 34.8 14.52 Carry-overs paid out 1 Jan to 31 Mar 97 254 4 0 5 168 2 5 4 574 599 997 258 (in ECU) Percentage of 1996 carry-over used by 31/03/97 49.89 65.04 41.54 46.36 expenditure Total Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop.
2 151 048 (in ECU 1000)
C 393/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN CENTER FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING The nature of the observations of the Court of Auditors makes it possible for the Management Board of the Center to react in a direct manner.
The Board will follow the structure of the Court's observations and conclusions.
The numbering of the annotated paragraphs corresponds to that used in the Court's report.
12. The Center thanks the Court for the understanding shown for the indicated transfers, which were necessary for smooth functioning in the Greek context and points out the exceptional nature of these operations which will not recur under normal circumstances.
16. Concerning the procedure to call for tenders the following points should be taken into account: (a) Some ongoing contracts are based on earlier calls for interest and for tender.
In the case of the documentary network, for which contracts are mostly above ECU 12 000, these were signed in most cases with the same specialized institutions as in previous years.
A high degree of continuity is needed in this work and an annual call for tenders with the possibility of frequent changes in contractors would be very disruptive and, due to the need for training and a period of introduction, inefficient.
Nevertheless the performance of the contracts is carefully evaluated and a call for tenders (on the basis of the call for interest recently made by the"Centre) will be launched in cases where it is considered that this performance is not satisfactory. (b) Contracts for preparing new monographs describing the vocational education and training systems in the Member States (or for updating existing ones) are subject to the usual rules, ie a restricted invitation to tender is organized.
In the case of the monographs, this list is drawn up following consultation with members of the Management Board.
An exception to this rule was made during 1995 and 1996 in relation to monographs concerning the new Member States and the EEA countries, when it was thought more appropriate to take the decision directly following consultation with members of the Management Board.
As planned, the Center launched a general call for an expression of interest for participation in networks and the performance of study contracts.
This was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities (C 214 of 16 July 1997) and the results of this call are now being processed.
17. Delays in completing transactions in relation to contracts in many cases derive from defective administrative procedures, particularly the failure of contractors to forward in time the necessary invoices for payment.
Delays were also sometimes incurred in signing contracts, allowing work on them to begin only some months after the date initially planned which had knock-on effects.
In other cases delays were due to the need for intensive and time-consuming discussion between the contractor and Cedefop on the basis of the contractor's . draft report.
In cases in which the contracting institution may be co-funding the activity itself, or obtaining some funding from another source, Cedefop cannot always dictate the timetable.
This is particularly so when the price that Cedefop is paying is lower than the market might dictate for the work involved.
Nevertheless, Cedefop will try to avoid delays.
In the case of unreasonable delays the Center indicates to the contractors that these imply serious disadvantages for them, as far as the prospects for future cooperation are concerned.
The new list of interested persons/institutions, which will be the result of the recent call for expression of interest, should enlarge the options available to the Center for the future award of contracts and therefore make it easier to insist that contractors and their institutions comply strictly with the rules and timetable laid down.
A business-like approach will be maintained.
19. The Management Board notes the improvements in 1996 and considers that further progress is possible.
It will intensify its efforts to that end.
The Center has improved its procedure by adding to every quarterly drawing from the Commission subsidy a detailed statement with respect to the current supply of means of payment and the total payments expected during the subsequent four months.
The difference between these shows the balance of the real demand and, as a result, a permanently excessive cash balance will be avoided.
20. The Center immediately initiated action after the audit of the Court of Auditors and is pressing for reimbursement.
The corresponding records for reclaiming from the German financial authorities the value-added tax (VAT) paid in 1995 and 1996 by the Center have been submitted.
The Center has made contact with the responsible tax authorities in Greece and has been informed in detail on the procedure and appropriate preparation of the records for reclaiming value-added tax
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/9 (VAT) paid in previous years.
In the mean time, the records concerning the financial years 1995 and 1996 have been prepared and forwarded to the authorities.
21. The Center draws to mind that — the quickly refurbished temporary premises are not an optimal solution (eg the available surface area is only +/-one third the size of the future new building), — new needs arose after Cedefop's relocation ( particularly, investment in the infrastructure for electronic equipment), — neither the initial agreement nor the Greek law is clear on who should bear such costs.
Legal advice confirmed the uncertainty.
The Center had to make modifications to run operations efficiently.
The Center recognizes that it would have been better to make arrangements beforehand on any additional investment.
The owner has taken note of these additional investments made by Cedefop and has shown a generous attitude in new issues (eg extra meeting facilities).
The Center also will try to receive compensation in the settlements at the end of the present rental contract.
23. The Center agrees that the preparatory time was very long, but is confident that matters will now proceed rapidly.
The calendar for the coming period delivered by the Greek authorities is as follows: Calendar with main events and dates for Cedefop's new building Selection of the winner of the call for tender in the second round of tenders Implementation of the infrastructural work Foundation stone laid by Mr Pangalos, Foreign Affairs Minister Signing of the contract Estimated total time for completing the work Expected completion of the project The Center expects that the Budgetary Authority will lift the reserve in the 1997 budget and that the Center will be able to comply with its contractual obligations vis -à-vis the Greek Government.
Hopefully, the progress will be substantial enough to pay the third installation before the end of 1997.
This would also be of importance because in the budget proposal of 1998 there is no request for another installation.
24-25. There are indeed many new staff members recruited and several persons working in the Center on different contracts on top of the table of posts.
The social measures related to the transfer came to an end (May 1997) and the Management Board will assess the staff situation at the end of 1997.
30 July 1997 In progress 6 September 1997 30 October 1997 460 calendar days 10 May 1999 at the latest 26. The expectations are that the results of this investigation will not have consequences for the Centre.
27. As explained, a new extensive call for interest has been undertaken with success.
28. This situation has been improving over the last years and this trend hopefully will continue in 1997.
29. The Center did its utmost, and will continue to do so, to ensure that it will have a high-quality new building and to obtain good value for good money.
The cost of the new building could be less than the initial estimates.
The prospects are positive (see paragraph 23).
C 393/10 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 REPORT on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), accompanied by the replies of the Foundation (97/C 393/02) CONTENTS The financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year 1996 AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background Scope of the audit Financial data Follow up of previous observations Separation of duties Imprest account Transfers of appropriations between titles Mission expenses Study contracts Budgetary implementation and the revenue and expenditure account Transfer of appropriations Carry-overs and cancellations of appropriations Revenue Management of health and safety Coordination with the Bilbao Agency Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F - CONCLUSION ' ANNEX - Tables 1-4 Replies of the Foundation Paragraph 1—4 11 5—22 11 5 — 7 11 5 11 6 11 7 11 8— 12 11 8 11 9 11 10 11 11 11 12 12 13— 15 12 13 12 14 12 15 12 16— 18 12 16 — 17 12 18 12 19 — 22 12 14 17
29. 12. 97 [~ËN~1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/11 THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is addressed to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (l) as amended by Article 1 (4) of Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 (2).
2. The Court examined the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In accordance with Article 1 (16) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76(4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Administrative Board.
This responsibility included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Article 1 (52), (54) and (55) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (4).
3. The Court undertook its audit in accordance with generally accepted international auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context and, accordingly, carried out such tests of the accounting records and such other procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996 are reliable and the underlying transactions are taken as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Foundation for the Improvement in Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (5) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of contributing ' to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions through action designed to increase and disseminate knowledge likely to assist this development'.
The Dublin Foundation commenced operations in 1976.
Scope of the audit 6. The Court of Auditors examined the accounts and financial management of the Dublin Foundation for the financial year 1996 in accordance with the provisions of the relevant regulations(6).
A review of the cooperation with the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao and Directorate-General V of the Commission in the area of health and safety was also carried out.
Financial data 7. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Foundation.
Available appropriations for the financial year 1996 amounted to ECU 13.8 million.
Commitments entered into gave rise to ECU 10.5 million in payments and ECU 3.1 million in carry-overs to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 0.2 million having been cancelled.
Appropriations carried over from the previous year gave rise to ECU 2.9 million in payments and ECU 0.1 million in cancellations.
Table 3 attached to this report gives an analysis by title of the utilization of the appropriations for the year and for those carried over from 1995.
Follow up of previous observations Separation of duties 8. There is still an inadequate separation of duties between the authorizing officer and the accounting officer (7), contravening Article 1 (15) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Regulation (EEC ) No. 1417/76. Imprest account 9. Last year the Court recommended that the use of the imprest account be limited to ongoing or small expenses, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
At the time of the audit in April 1997 a written definition of ongoing and small expenses still had not been established by the Foundation in consultation, with the Financial Controller.
Transfers of appropriations between titles 10. The Court welcomes the fact that no transfers of appropriations between titles were made during 1996.
The Court has criticized such transfers in previous years (8).
Mission Expenses 11. Some improvements have been made to strengthen the controls and monitoring of the results of missions.
The Foundation should continue its efforts so as to ensure that:
C 393/12 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 — for all missions a report stating the times of meetings, persons met and the results of the meeting is prepared.
The report should be reviewed by a senior member of staff and filed centrally, — wherever possible, more than one meeting should be arranged during a mission to Brussels in order to avoid the same staff member going to Brussels on successive weeks, — other means of communication, including teleconferencing, should be seriously considered, especially when communicating with persons in Brussels already well known.
Study contracts 12. The audit team of the Court followed up last year's observation regarding delays in the submission of work by contractors.
The minutes of the program management meetings did not contain any evidence of a review of report deadlines.
A summary of the information supplied by the Foundation during the audit is shown in Table 4 and demonstrates the need for a formalization of followup procedures.
Management of health and safety Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao commenced its activities in September 1996.
'Health and safety' was in the Foundation's program of work for 1996, but was replaced in the program of work for 1997 with 'Health and wellbeing'.
There is an urgent need for a clear and detailed M emorandum of Understanding (currently being negotiated) to be agreed on by both satellite agencies.
This should maximize cooperation and exclude any overlap in activities.
17. Formal contacts already exist at administrative level, notably through both directors attending the other's Administrative Board meetings as an observer.
Links need to be extended to the research manager level in order to ensure full coordination.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. Directorate F of DG V, 'Public Health and Safety at Work', makes use of some of the Foundation's research within this specialized field.
Whilst maintaining the present independence of the Foundation's Administrative Board, there is a need to make more effort to ensure that its output is as useful as possible to DG V/F in terms of content and timing.
DG V/F is unable to attend all meetings concerning specific study contracts.
It would therefore be useful to hold periodic meetings at which the whole range of studies which may concern DG V/F can be discussed.
Conclusion 19. There is an inadequate separation of duties between accounting officer and authorizing officer (see paragraph 8).
20. The use of the imprest account should be regularized (see paragraph 9).
21. Controls over mission expenditure and the monitoring of study contracts should be tightened (see paragraphs 11 and 12).
22. Cooperation and communication with the Bilbao Agency and DG V/F in the fields of 'Health and safety at work' and 'Health and wellbeing' should be strengthened (see paragraphs 16 to 18).
Budgetary implementation and the expenditure account Transfer of appropriations revenue and 13. The value of transfers of appropriations between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 1,366,000 (9.9% of appropriations entered into the budget), down from ECU 1,494,000 ( 11.? %) in 1995.
Carry-overs and cancellations of appropriations 14. Table 3 shows that the payment rate is 76% for the account as a whole, but only 55% for Title 3 Operating expenditure'.
This is in line with previous years and is due to the fact that studies are usually paid in three installations over the period foreseen in their contracts.
Revenue 15. The EU subsidy for the Foundation for 1996 was ECU 13.4 million.
The amount actually requested and was received ECU 12 895 632.
The funds were requested as required by the Council Regulations and in line with a cash flow forecast, as previously recommended by the Court.
29. 12. 97 ' 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities ' C 393/13 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 and 13 November 1997. ί1) OJL139,30.5.75, p.1.
(2) OJ L 181, 23. 7. 93, p. 13.
(4) OJ L 164, June 24, 76, p. 16
(5) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 published on 30 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30.5.1975).
(6) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30.5.1975) on the creation of the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 7/23/1993).
Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1417/76 of June 1976 (OJ L 164, June 24, 1976) on the financial provisions applying to the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 7/23/1993).
(7) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 8.
(8) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 10 and Dublin Foundation annual report 1994, paragraph 3.2.
For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President
C 393/14 1 EN I - Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assets 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Mission advances 4. Miscellaneous advances 5. Bank charges Cash accounts Bank account — ECU — Main (IR £) — Imprest (IR £) 1996 7106 1 5 5 1 38 337 3 9 2 440 794 204 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1 —' 1520 190 245 Liabilities 1996 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 8 479 -2 2 040 — 2 040 3,012,751 10,750 Fixed assets 1. Buildings 2. Furniture Current assets 1. Stocks Fixed capital 10,484 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by 'the Dublin Foundation.
10 484 - ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 10 750 1. Own capital 8 695 2. Balance for the financial year - 2 8 8 3. Balance from the previous year - 2 040 Current liabilities Salary deductions 24 Revenue to be collected 336 Sums to be reused ■ 209 Appropriations carried over 3 098 Payments in progress 450
C 393/16 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — UTILIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRIATIONS Definitive 5 950 1 170 6 680 13 800 Source : Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
Canceled '50 (0.8) 16 (1.4) 130 (1.9) 196 (1.4) Available 28 177 2 807 3 012 Total The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available appropriations.
Year 1995 1996 Total contracts (') 110 62 Deadlines not respected (2) 57 42 Percentage (2)/(') 52 68 Payments 5,877 (98.8) 976 (83.4) 3,653 (54.7) Carry -overs 23 27 (96.4) 174 (98.3) 2,669 (95.1) 2,870 (95.3) Caitcelled 1 (3.6) 3 (1.7) 138 (4.9) 142 ( 4.7) 10,506 (76.1) 1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments - (0.4) 178 ' (15.2) 2,897 (43.4) Total 172 99 58 (1) For 1996 only those Contracts for which the contractual deadline was prior to 31 January 1997 have been included.
(2) Only cases where reports were shown as received over one month after the deadline have j)een included.
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
3 098 (22.5) TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — RESPECT OF STUDY CONTRACT DEADLINES ' (in ECU 1 000)
29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/17 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS Separation of duties 8. The Foundation would ask the Court to note that the two functions of authorizing and accounting officers are carried out separately by different individuals: a residual problem of separation of duties is limited to data input to the accounting system.
This problem will be resolved when the Foundation obtains delivery of a new system.
The Foundation is in contact with the Commission services with regard to the feasibility of the application of the Commission's Sincom 2 system to the Foundation's accounting requirements. ~ - Imprest account 9. During 1996 the Foundation's use of the imprest account was, in practice, in accordance with the recommendation of the Court, limited to ongoing or small expenses.
The Foundation, in June 1997 in consultation with the Financial Controller, established a written definition with regard to these expenses.
Mission expenses 11. In 1996, the Foundation further developed existing procedures with regard to mission reports.
This process will continue and will incorporate the suggestions of the Court.
The Foundation continually seeks to accommodate the optimum number of meetings during a particular mission.
The Court's comments regarding missions to Brussels are, however, noted.
Following the successful completion of a pilot scheme during 1996 the Foundation has now installed a tele-conferencing facility.
It is intended to review the utilization of this facility at the end of a trial period at which time further decisions will be taken, based on a cost analysis, regarding the value of acquiring more extensive and sophisticated video-conferencing equipment.
Study contracts 12. Although the minutes of the program management meetings have not recorded the situation on specific contract deadlines, such discussions on each contract take place at every meeting and appropriate action is taken.
With regard to such recording the Foundation is now establishing an improved system for formalization of follow-up procedures in order to present a more realistic picture of the situation.
Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The memorandum of understanding currently under consideration is regarded as a priority item by the Foundation.
The establishment of links at research-manager level has also commenced.
These will be intensified in line with any increase in activities undertaken by the Bilbao Agency.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. The Foundation is very aware of the need for its output to be relevant to the work of DG V. The Commission is represented on the Foundation's Administrative Board by the Deputy-Director-General of DG V. Various forms of working relations have been established with the Directorates of DG V, including mutual participation in working groups as appropriate.
Specifically through the office of the Director of DG V/F the Foundation has regular contacts with officials in the various units within DG V/F. Presentation of aspects of the Foundation's work to DG V officials is provided for within the Foundation's operational activities.
The Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work in Luxembourg is also kept informed of the Foundation's program and its results.
More generally there is a flow of relevant documentation from the Foundation to DG V in relation to the results of the work programmes.
The Court's acknowledgment that DG V/F is frequently unable to attend meetings relating to specific study contracts is noted.
The Foundation is fully open to alternative proposals from DG V/F with regard to utilization of the Foundation's output.
C 393/18 I EN [ Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEÄ, London) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies ( 97/C 393/03) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, pursuant to Article 57 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (*).
The Court of Auditors examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accordance with Article 57 (7) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 (l).
His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in accordance with the internal financial provisions provided for in Article 57 (11) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are appropriate to the Community context.
It examined the account books and records and carried out such additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary.
The financial statements concerning the financial year 1996 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions as a whole are guaranteed.
MAIN OBSERVATIONS CONCERNING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE EVALUATION OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS (EMEA, LONDON) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budgetary accounts 1.5.
The agency's budgetary accounts do not enable the principle of the inviolability of the accounts to be guaranteed, as a posteriori modifications are possible and undetectable.
Furthermore, the accounts do not make it possible to detect cases of spending in excess of available appropriations.
The current system does not allow the authorizing officer to input accounting data (proposals for commitments and payment orders) to the computer.
These data are recorded by the accounting officer in the accounts for the record (temporary freezing) before being approved by the financial controller.
This practice does not provide accurate information on the accounts in real time.
As the Sincom 2 system, which is supposed to replace the present accounting system, is not yet operational, an alternative solution should preferably be sought without delay.
General accounts — analytical 1.7.
The general accounts software that is currently used is insufficient for the agency's needs and is separate from the budgetary accounts system.
Furthermore, the Agency has no system of analytical accounts, which however is indispensable if one wishes to establish whether the scale of fees laid down by the Council (3) adequately covers the costs of evaluation.
Use of appropriations.
1.8. The appropriations carried forward from 1995 to 1996 totaled ECU 5.9 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million (29%) was cancelled.
ECU 0.9 million of 1995 appropriations made available for reuse but not used in 1996 were also cancelled. 1.9.
Only 79.6% of current appropriations (ECU 22.6 million before the SAB and ECU 17.9 million after a reduction made following the adoption of an amending budget) were implemented and 20.7% were canceled (ECU 4.7 million ).
The main reason for this was the impossibility of recruiting staff in good time (only 65% of the posts for which provision had been made); a second reason was the reduction in license applications and in the corresponding studies.
1.10. The appropriations carried forward from 1996 to 1997 totaled ECU 4.8 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million and ECU 2.8 million concerned Titles II (administrative expenditure) and III (operational expenditure).
In the case of Title II, ECU 1.1 million concerned purchases of equipment based on new technology.
In the case of Title III, ECU 1.3 million concerned fees to be paid to the inspectors during examinations (started in 1996 and finished in 1997) and ECU 0.8 million was for orphan drugs.
29".
12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/19 Imprest account 1.11.
Contrary to accounting principles, a loss of ECU 0.02 million in 1994 was listed under expenditure to be settled in 1995 and 1996. ^ Revenue; subsidies; own resources 1.12.
The total revenue actually collected, ie ECU 18.4 million, represents 81% of the amount for which the budget initially provided.
The fees collected amounted to ECU 7 million.
Only 73% of the amount initially provided for could be collected and checked.
The balance sheet shows ECU 0.9 million of fees due that have not yet been validated and established in accordance with Article 5 (3) of the Agency's Financial Regulation. 1.14.
In 1997, the Agency adopted a new computer system for revenue.
This system will be examined during the next Court audit.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997.
0OJ L 214, 24".
8. 1993, p. 18
(2) Pursuant to Article 57 (9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 26 March 1997, on which date they were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 31 March 1997.
The short fornì of these financial statements is presented in the tables annexed to this report.
(3) OJ L 35, February 15, 1995.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President C 393/20 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 Assets Equipment and furniture 1996 1 893 1 893 0 147 728 113 1995 1394 1394 0 21 199 937 1 157 8 249 8 249 10 800 Liabilities Capital (l) Balance for the year ^ Current Liablities 1996 1 893 6 476 1620 3 152 328 895 314 728 7 235 13 711 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 1394 1551 2 350 3 564 121 85 390 10 800 Fixed Assets Fixed Capital Current assets Commission subsidy receivable Sundry accounts receivable VAT to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Cash accounts Banks — current accounts Term deposits Total assets Non-automatic carry-overs of appropriations Automatic carry-overs of appropriations Appropriations for reuse Salary deductions Sundry accounts payable Deferred fees Exchange profit riot realized VAT refund Subtotal Total liabilities (') This amount corresponds to the fixed assets.
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 Subtotal Subtotal 988 Subtotal 756 10 074 10 830 13 711 Subtotal
29. 12. 97 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/21 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Subsidy received from the Commission Fees Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff — Budget Title I Payments Appropriations carried over Total Revenue 1996 11 004 376 6 593 2858 1698 3 650 2 811 138 18 011 365 1 551 2 667 4 583 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 10150 299 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 0 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551 Buildings, equipment and various administrative expenses — Budget Title II Payments Appropriations carried over Operating expenditure —.
Budget Title III Payments Appropriations carried over Miscellaneous expenditure not included in budget Payments to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Exchange losses Outturn for the financial year Balance carried over from previous year Appropriations carried over from previous year, canceled Total expenditure Balance to be carried over Source : Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
In the absence of a commercial computerized system which meets the requirements of the Financial Regulation and until the new SI2 system developed by the Commission, which the Agencies are in the process of adapting to their needs, is available, the Agency is managing its budget accounts using Excel software.
This software ensures that the information required for the sound management of the budget is always available and it provides the agency's management with information which is relevant and up-to-date.
The software verifies budget appropriations, commitments, orders, frozen appropriations and payments.
The existing system indicates cases of spending in excess of available appropriations.
The supporting document for each entry in the budget system is the document signed by the authorizing officer.
It is approved by the Financial Controller and is processed by the accounts department.
It is true that the Agency's system is not yet completely computerized and, because it does not retain in its memory changes to entries, it does, in principle, allow changes to be made without any indication thereof appearing in the general accounts.
However, it should be noted that all commitments, cancellations, payment orders, etc. are prepared and classified in accordance with the rules, the relevant supporting documents being placed in an annex.
In the new system it will not be possible to make ex post facto changes without there being any indication thereof.
Like most of the Agencies, the EMEA expects that the work on the SI2 project will be completed in 1997 and that the system will be made available.
The new system will allow the general accounts to be better integrated with the budget accounts.
Together with the other Agencies, the EMEA issued an invitation to tender two years ago for compatible software; the result was disappointing.
The EMEA anticipates that the SI2 system, adapted to the needs of the Agency, will be available by the end of 1997.
1.7. On 5 February 1997 the Management Board adopted a report on the cost of operational activities, which was forwarded to the Commission.
The Agency is busy structuring its accounts system so as to include analytical accounts.
In addition, a pilot program for the electronic recording of activities has been started. 1.8.
The sum of ECU 0.9 million in 1995 appropriations made available for reuse but not used in 1996 relates notably to Article 204 (fitting-out of premises).
As these appropriations could not be transferred and as no significant fitting-out work was carried out in 1996, the sum in question was cancelled.
1.11. Article 5 of the Financial Regulation stipulates that expenditure for which authorization reaches the Financial Controller no later than 31 December, and for which the corresponding payments are made no later than the following 15 January, will be entered in the accounts for the financial year which is coming to a close.
Following the imprecise interpretation of these provisions in 1994 a sum of ECU 16 915.22. was imputed to the impose account.
Following discussions with the Court's auditors the sum in question was settled in the 1997 accounts.
1.13. Even if, with more experience in the field, the Agency was able to improve its estimates of the volume of dossiers to be received, taking account also of the seasonal nature of their submission, the Agency would still be no more able in the future than it is at present to formulate, one year in advance, exact estimates of the plans of the pharmaceutical industry and therefore of the amount which might be expected from fees.
These uncertainties mean that the Agency is obliged to pursue a cautious policy with regard to expenditure.
29. 12. 97 ΓΕΝ~| Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/23 REPORT on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHI M, Alicante) (Financial year 1996), together with the Office's replies (97/C 393/04) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market pursuant to Article 137 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 C).
The Court has examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office in accordance with the requirements of Article 119 (2) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2).
His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (3) in accordance with the internal financial rules, as provided for by Article 137 of Regulation (EC) No 40/94. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
I t carried out tests on the account books and records and such' additional procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report.
1.4. For the reasons indicated in paragraphs 1.8 to 1.12 (own revenue) the Court was unable to form an opinion as to whether the accounts underlying the revenue shown in the financial statements are reliable.
Subject to the above reservations, the financial statements for the financial year 1996 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, assured.
MAIN OBSERVATI ONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE OFFICE FOR HARMONI ZATION IN THE I NTERNAL MARKET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget accounts 1.6.
Although 1996 is the Office's third year of activity, the accounts department of the Office still does not have proper budget accounting software.
Monitoring the implementation of the budget is carried out with the aid of a tool which is not a real accounting system (changes may be made to entries with no subsequent record of their having been made, absence of any link to the general accounts, etc. ). 1.7.
The Office does not possess any system of analytical accounting, which is, however, indispensable for the purpose of establishing the real cost of services rendered.
Own revenue 1.8.
Before the entry into service, in May 1996, of the system set up to monitor the charges associated with the filing of trade marks (Euromarc), two alternative systems had been used temporarily to monitor applications for trade mark registrations.
The risk that is inherent in the transfer of data from these temporary systems to Euromarc is high and the Court was therefore unable to form an opinion as to whether such transfers were complete.
The Office was not able to demonstrate that the Euromarc system was functioning according to the description it had given.
The Court is, therefore, not in a position to state with certainty that the reliability of the system is assured.
The new description drawn up by the Office reached the Court too late for it to be able to carry out the additional work that was necessary to remove this uncertainty.
For reasons which are mainly due to the unwieldiness of Euromarc and the complexity of the THE regulations, long delays in dealing with applications were observed.
Some clients complained to the Office on this account.
Moreover, the accumulated delay prevented the entry of more than ECU 12.4 million of revenue out of a total of ECU 45.9. million in receipts.
The difference, ie ECU 33.5 million, was entered under liabilities and shown on the balance sheet as 'advances from clients'.
Of this amount, ECU 4.7 million was made up of payments that could not be linked to the related trade-mark applications.
Bearing in mind that new payments arrive every day, these old transactions must be identified as a matter of urgency.
C 393/24 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 ACPC 1.12.
The Office's ACPC was not created until April 1, 1996.
Several contracts for which the opinion of the ACPC would have been required, had. already been approved by the Office on the basis of an Operating report' accompanied, in some cases, by a note from the legal department, concerning the regularity of the procedure followed.
Such notes can, under no circumstances, replace the opinion of the ACPC.
Appropriations carried over; cancellations; transfer 1.13.
Appropriations carried over to 1997 totaled ECU 14.5 million (total automatic carry-overs), ie 44.8% of the total of ECU, 32.4 million of appropriations for the financial year.
These appropriations carried forward originated in the large volume of trade mark applications which had not been processed at the end of the year.
The total of current appropriations which lapsed was ECU 5.6 million, ie 17.3% of the appropriations for the financial year.
As far as the appropriations carried over from the financial year L995 are concerned ECU 4.65 million, ie 14.6%, lapsed (ECU 0.68 million).
Transfers of appropriations amounted to ECU 7.6 million.
the Totals quoted, as well as the appropriations carried over to the financial year 1997 and the volume of revenue received, show the inaccuracy of the budget estimates for the financial year 1996.
An amendment of the initial budget estimates should have been made during the financial year.
Building 1.16.
The Office continues to occupy a building belonging to the Spanish authorities and placed at its disposal free of charge.
However, no contract exists in this respect.
As far as the final location is concerned, the Office has opened negotiations in respect of a proposed acquisition and has entered an initial amount in the budget for supervisory work.
1.17. It must be emphasized that the Office must ensure that the necessary appropriations are available before a legal commitment is entered into.
(2) OJ L 11, 14.1.1994, p. 30
(3) Pursuant to Article 137 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 21 February 1997.
These accounts were received by the Court on 25 February 1997.
The short form of these financial statements is to be found in the tables annexed to this report.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President 29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/25 Fixed assets Fixed capital Installations and furniture Movable equipment Computer equipment Intangible assets Current assets Subtotal Capital 0 2 412 Balance for the year (4,318) Securities and guarantees received 3 Other long-term liabilities 43 Subtotal (2) (1,860) Current liabilities Automatic carry-overs of 14,517 appropriations Revenue for reuse 69 Institutions 478 Sundry accounts due 35 Balance of Commission subsidy (3) 6,289 VAT and charges to be recovered 429 Advances from clients 33,511 Subtotal 55,328 Total liabilities 53,468 Commission subsidy Sundry accounts receivable VAT and charges to be recovered .
Cash accounts Bank — current accounts Imprest account Subtotal Subtotal Total assets Assets "1996 383 48 1 890 91 2 412 6 289 42 429 6 760 44 291 5 44 296 53 468 1995 569 48 162 779 3 275 26 169 1 3 8639 1 3 8639 879 6128 Liabilities 1996. (in ECU 1 000) 1995 779 478 2 43 1302 4 648 9 169 4 826 6 128 ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 (') This amount corresponds to total fixed assets.
(2) The negative total of the balance for the year and capital does not constitute a loss of capital.
It is the result of applying the Financial Regulation in respect of revenue (only revenue which has been collected) and expenditure (payments plus appropriations carried over).
(3) In the financial statements for the financial year 1995, the amount of Commission subsidy still to be paid at the end of the financial year is listed as revenue.
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities. '
Source: Drawn up by the Court, on the basis of information supplied by the Office.
C 393/26 |~ËN~1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 Revenue Commission subsidy Commission subsidy receivable (*) Miscellaneous revenue Own revenue Expenditure Staff — Title I Payments Appropriations carried over Buildings, equipment, etc. — Title II Payments Appropriations carried over Total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 1996 8 291 1061 12 369 21721 8 903 402 3 279 8 272 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 6 825 3 275' 90 3 3 30 6 319 1669 - 3 869 50 314^ 9 677 516 62 (100) 478 Operating expenditure — Title III Payments 89 Appropriations carried over 5 843 Total expenditure 26 788 Outturn for the financial year (5 067) Appropriations carried over and canceled 683 Exchange gains/losses 66 Balance for the financial year (4 318) (1) In the financial statements for the financial year 1995, the amount of Commission subsidy still to be paid at the end of the financial year is listed as revenue.
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities. .
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/27 REPLIES OF THE OFFICE FOR HARMONIZATION IN THE INTERNAL MARKET 1.4.
Own revenue The payment of the fees and charges associated with the filing and registration of a Community trade-mark is the final step in a lengthy procedure, which is laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993.
Between the time a trade mark application is filed and the time the corresponding charges are entered in the accounts there is usually an interval of two months, in the course of which the case is handled by at least three different types of staff.
The whole process is computerized and each category of staff involved is authorized to access the computer system which covers the duties for which they are responsible.
In order to be able to cover in a limited amount of time (two to three days) all the stages involved from receipt of application to entry in the accounts of the charges, it is absolutely essential that the cases selected at the outset receive priority treatment .
This is possible providing two conditions are met: 1. that a single user is authorized, temporarily and by way of exception, to have access to all computer systems required to complete all the stages, up to entry in the accounts, and 2. that the demonstration of the accelerated procedure takes place in a test environment in order that there may be all the flexibility of use required without the production base being contaminated.
During the visit of the auditors in February 1997 it was not possible to carry out such a demonstration in the time available for technical reasons.
Measures have already been put in place to ensure that a complete presentation of the revenue payment system can be made during the auditors' visit which is planned for October 1997.
Budget accounts Like the other Agencies, the OHIM is awaiting the final version of the Sincom 2 budget accounting software.
This software ought to be available towards the end of 1997.
Once the OHIM receives the software, it will be brought into use over a period of a few months.
Analytical accounts The Office will start to establish analytical accounts for certain areas of activity at the beginning of 1998, when it will have a sufficiently broad and stable production base in certain sectors to be able to establish realistic standards.
Own revenue — change of system While changing over to the final system for monitoring applications and charges, the Office verified extremely thoroughly that the data transferred were consistent.
Moreover, bank reconciliations confirmed the results of the transfer.
The Office therefore considers that the transfer was carried out correctly.
1.9 — 1.10.
System for the payment of charges See reply to paragraph 1.4.
Delay hi the identification/entry of payments On account of the large number of applications received in 1996 (43,000 rather than the 15,000 anticipated), the Office built up a certain backlog in 1996 in the entry of application charges.
The Office has now almost caught up with this backlog.
As regards the ECU 4.7 million made up of non-identified payments, the situation has been rectified since March 1997, as intended and explained to the Court's auditors.
At present, the time lag between the receipt of a check by the OHIM and its identification and transfer to the bank is six days.
C 393/28 ΓΕΝ~1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 1.13 ACPC The ACPC began operating as soon as the Office's Financial Regulation and the implementing rules applicable to the Financial Regulation, which govern the composition of the ACPC, entered into force.
Before the creation of the ACPC the OHI M had no alternative but to follow the procedure which it did, namely to consult the legal department in respect of contracts exceeding a threshold of ECU 42 000, in order to ensure that the procurement procedure was in accordance with the rules applicable to the conclusion of public contracts.
In the case of sizeable contracts, the OHI M was compelled during this transitional period to use the contracts of the other institutions and of the Commission in particular, in order to benefit from the legal guarantee attached to such contracts and the economies of scale which necessarily result.
Appropriations carried over A relatively large amount of appropriations were carried over in 1996.
80% of the carry-overs in question related to procedural expenditure (searches/translation/publication, etc.).
In accordance with Article 29 of the Financial Regulation, the Office must commit the procedural expenditure arising from Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 on the Community trade-mark the moment application charges are entered in the accounts.
This is effectively unavoidable expenditure, the implementation of which is directly linked to the collection of the application charges.
Clearly, during this start-up phase, taking into account the fact that the number of applications was much higher than anticipated (+ 280%), the discrepancy between the commitment of procedural expenditure and the actual implementation of the procedures in question is much greater than during normal operation.
This situation is progressively being regularized; in 1997 appropriations carried over in respect of procedural expenditure will be significantly less.
Lapsed appropriations/transfers of appropriations The 1996 budget was drawn up at the end of June 1994 and submitted to the Budgetary Authority in February 1995.
At that stage, there was nothing to suggest that the OHIM would be faced with such a number of trade-mark applications.
In June and September 1996 the OHI M informed its Budget Committee of how the situation was developing, drawing its attention to the budgetary consequences.
It should be noted that some of the lapsed appropriations come under Chapter 1 1 and relate in particular to Heading 1 1 3 3 (Constitution or maintenance of pension rights for temporary staff) (ECU 1 031 000).
These appropriations were entered in the budget at the request of the Commission in order to cover the employers' contribution to pensions payable to staff (it was said that this entry was contrary to the staff regulations).
I n the mean time, the Commission has indicated that no pension fund exists and that no amount is due as an employers' contribution.
As regards the other lapsed appropriations, they are essentially appropriations relating to procedural expenditure for which it was impossible to make commitments in 1996 due to lack of time.
Building There is no lease contract between the Spanish authorities and the OHI M. for the latter's occupation of its temporary seat at 20 Avenida de Aguilera.
There is, however, a document entitled 'Acte de remise des clés du siège provisoire' (Deed of delivery of keys to the temporary seat), which was signed on 25 February 1994 by the Cosoami and the OHIM and which provides for the OHI M to occupy the temporary seat until it is able to occupy the final seat.
Final seat The OHI M has taken note of the Court's observation concerning the availability of appropriations for the acquisition of the final seat.
Its Budget Committee has, however, approved the acquisition of the first phase of the final seat by means of bank financing.
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/29 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/ 05) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency, pursuant to Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 i1).
The Court of Auditors examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 1996.
The Court carried out tests on the account books and records and also such additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The observations set out in paragraphs 1.6 to 1.15 show that there are accounting practices in use at the Agency which are not consistent with the regulations.
There are also certain sums for which no justification could be given.
Subject to the above reservations, the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 1996 are - reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, guaranteed. of accounts.
No such reconciliation was made during the financial year 1996.
Furthermore, for the financial year 1996, such reconciliation was complicated by the consolidation of a substantial proportion of the general account entries (the various budget accounts were grouped into five major expenditure accounts in the general accounts; several non-budget entries concerning various credit or debit operations in respect of staff were also grouped together in a single account in the general accounts).
Another weakness of this accounting system is the impossibility of checking a posteriori the level of appropriations during the year and thus of ensuring that available appropriations have not been exceeded.
1.8. Furthermore, it was noted that a balance of approximately ECU 0.02 million was shown on the balance sheet (sundry accounts payable) for which the Agency was unable to provide the Court with the appropriate supporting documents (see consolidation problem mentioned in paragraph 1.6) .
The Agency's budget accounts are still behindhand and could not provide the authorizing officers and the Financial Controller with the information they need if the former are to commit themselves legally in respect of third parties and the latter to give his approval to the proposals for commitments that are submitted to him.
For this reason, the agency had to set up a parallel system for monitoring the implementation of the budget so as not to exceed available appropriations, as it did during the previous financial year (see report on the implementation of the 1995 budget), and to enable the authorizing officers to check at all times the level of commitment of the appropriations for which they are responsible (failure to observe Articles 58 and 59 of the implementing provisions for the Commission's Financial Regulation, which also apply to the EEA, as the Agency has not adopted its own implementing provisions).
As the Sincom 2 system is unlikely to be available within a reasonable time, the agency should preferably seek an alternative solution so as to have an effective accounting system at its disposal.
The methodology applied during the financial year 1996 complied neither with accounting rules nor with the MAIN OBSERVATIONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (EEA, COPENHAGEN) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget and general accounts 1.6.
The accounts continue to be kept on two different computerized accounting systems: commercial software is used for the general accounts and another tool is used for the budget accounts.
This double system would require regular (at least monthly) reconciliations of the two sets CONCERNING THE
C 393/30 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 Communities' financial regulations and ultimately led to the financial statements (trial balance, balance sheet and revenue and expenditure account) being submitted after the deadlines had expired.
1.12. The approach adopted by the Management Board for drawing up and submitting the financial statements is thus not a relevant one.
1996 payments recorded in 1997 1.15.
Appropriations carried over; contracts 1.18.
The percentage of appropriations carried forward This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. ί1) OJ L 120, 11. 5. 1990, p. 4.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI EDMANN President
29. 12. 97 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/31 Fixed assets Assets 1996 1995 153 2 209 9 2 371 0 172 ._ 32 421 5 740 6 365 3 243 3 243 11979 Liabilities Fixed capital Capital C) Balance carried forward Subtotal (2) Short -term liabilities Non-automatic carry-overs Automatic carry-overs Accounts for reuse Deductions from salaries Sundry accounts payable VAT refund Recovery order Suspense account Revenue receivable (3) Subtotal Total liabilities 1996 2 629 (3 387) (758) 89 6 126 129 15 20 28 10 0 6 392 12 809 12 051 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 2 371 1 844 4 215 - 989 5 997 .0 0 153 172 32 421 0 7 764 11979 Equipment and furniture Office equipment Stocks 17 Subtotal Current assets accounts receivable VAT to be recovered Recovery order Suspense account Commission subsidy receivable 2,629,219 28 10 0 6,392 6,649 2,494 27?
C 393/32 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Subsidy received from the Commission Miscellaneous revenue Exchange profits Subsidy receivable i1) Expenditure Staff — budget Title I Payments Appropriations carried over Total revenue 1996 8 329 157 0 0 8 486 4 500 235' 2 099 193 1 4 6 5 5 786 20 14 298 (5 812) 1844 581 (3 387) (in ECU 1 000) 1995 6 219 362 0 5 740 12 321 2 896 202 1488 320 637 6 465 32 421 o. 12 461 (140) 193 1 791 1844 Buildings, equipment and various items of administrative expenses — budget Title II Payments Appropriations carried over Operating expenditure — budget Title III Payments Appropriations carried over Non-budgetary expenditure Payments to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Exchange loss Balance for the year (2) Balance carried forward from previous financial year Reimbursements to the Commission Appropriations carried over from previous year, c ancelled Total expenditure Balance to be carried over (2) (') In the 1995 financial statements the part of the Commission subsidy still to be paid at the end of the financial year is included in the assets.
29. 12. 97 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/33 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY Budgetary and general accounts Point 1.6 — Budget and accounting systems The agency suffers from the lack of an integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
C 393/34 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 and the resulting efficiency, the Agency will use SI2 for its integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
29. 12. 97 Γ Ε Ν Ί Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/35 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/06) 1.1.
THE Contracts and ACPC 1.12.
C 393/36 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 tender (sometimes in the absence of a preliminary invitation to interested parties to apply).
O OJL36, 12.2.1993, p.6.
OJ L 341, December 30, 1994, p. 7.
C 393/38 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 Revenue Commission subsidy Commission subsidy receivable Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff — Title I .
29. 12. 97 [ EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/39 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN MONITORING CENTER FOR DRUGS AND DRUG ADDICTION
C 393/40 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 1.16.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/41 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies (97/C 393/ 07) 1.1.
C 393/42 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities' 29. 12. 97 for 1996) for certain items of expenditure was not recorded in the accounts of the Foundation (but in separate accounts).
Awarding of contracts 1.12.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President ■29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/43 Assets 1996 Computers Equipment and furniture 544 1995 326 242 0 568 24 543 0 567 3398 3 398 4 533 Liabilities Fixed capital Own capital (') Net results Shortterm liabilities 1996 1578 1794 3 372 665 431 3 288 350 56 432 4 9 45 5 280 8 652 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 0 1985 195 75 0 2 0 0 2 399 4 5 Fixed assets Office supplies Subsidy (Commission 1995) 543 Subsidy (Commission 1996) 431 Subtotal 986 Cash accounts Banks — current accounts 5 312 Imprest account 776 Subtotal 6 088 Total assets 8 652 ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 16 Subtotal 1578 ' Subtotal Deductions from salaries Sundry accounts payable Accounting officers' indemnities Recovery orders Revenue earmarked for a special purpose Subtotal Total liabilities receivable Ì 2 Nonautomatic carryovers Subsidy to be paid (Commission) (2) Automatic carryovers .Current payments 1 0 1 8 ' (' ) This amount corresponds to the fixed assets.
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/45 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION 1.5.
1.12.
C 393/46 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 be carried out for Tempus projects (Phare and Tacis) and Phare vocational training programmes.
29.12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/47 REPORT on the financial statements of the Translation Center for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/08) 1.1.
C 393/48 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 years), these contributions are to be flat-rate and are to be calculated on the basis of each body's forecast of its translation needs.
OJ L 314, 7 December 1994, p. 3.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/49 Fixed assets 1996 17 464 Subtotal 481 BALANCE Assets 1996 SHEET FOR 1995 198 198 924 924 1122 THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Liabilities Fixed capital Own capital (x) Net results Short- term Appropriations liabilities carried over by the Budgetary Authority Automatic carry-overs Sundry accounts payable Net contributions from clients (2) Subtotal Total liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1995 334 334 320 468 788 1122 Equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets Contributions from clients 259 Sundry accounts receivable 7 Subtotal 266 Cash accounts Banks — current accounts 1 894 Imprest account 109 Subtotal 2 003 Total assets 2 286 1 5 4 3 3 259 1 805 2 286 ANNEX TABLE 1 (') This amount corresponds to that of the fixed assets.
ΓΕΝΗ Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Various revenue Own revenue Recoverable revenue (λ) Expenditure Staff — Title I Payments Appropriations carried over Total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 " 1996 90 2 703 2 793 1 155 905 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 12 1095 198 1305 181 393 2 395 971 334 334 Buildings, equipment, etc. — Title II Payments 88 Appropriations carried over Outturn for the financial year Outturn from previous financial year Appropriations carried over and cancelled .
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/51 REPLIES OF THE TRANSLATION CENTER FOR THE BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Budgetary accounts 1.5.
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/53 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. (') OJ L 227, 1. 9 .1994, p. 27
C 393/54 I EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 Fixed assets Equipment and furniture Computer equipment Intangible fixed assets Current assets Sundry accounts receivable Cash accounts Bank — current accounts Imprest account Subtotal Assets 1996 15 35 2 52 20 20 4 498 150 4 648 4 720 1995 24 2 26 0 3,403 3,403 3,429 Liabilities Fixed capital Own funds (x) Balance for the financial year 1996 52 3,885 3,937 472 28 283 783 4,720 (in ECU 1,000) 1995 26 3,065 3,091 97 ■ 37 204 338 3 429 Subtotal Subtotal Subtotal Total assets Short-term liabilities Automatic carry-overs of appropriations Sundry accounts payable Client advances ANNEX TABLET BALANCE SHEET FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS NB: A recovery order for ECU 300 000, issued by the Commission at the end of 1996 and corresponding to the subsidy paid to the Office when it started work in 1995, could not be included in the accounts for the financial year just closed.
29. 12. 97 I EN.
C 393/56 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE COMMUNITY PLANT VARIETY OFFICE The main points raised by the Court in this document on the execution of the budget for these years relate to the absence of: — effective IT for general and budgetary accounting, — a formal Financial Controller, a Consultative Committee on Procurement and Contracts.
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/57 President of the Council had to stand in as 'mandataire', (b) no relevant purchase or tendering exercise exceeded the threshold set under the Financial Regulation of the Commission.
C 393/58 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies ( 97/C 393/10) 1.1.
December 29, 1997 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/59 were also delays in the recruitment of the persons who make up the Agency's basic staff.
C 393/60 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 Fixed assets Fixed capital Equipment and furniture Computer equipment Liquid assets Sundry accounts receivable Recoverable VAT and duties Own funds (l) Balance for the financial year Short-term liabilities Subtotal Cash accounts Banks — current Imprest acount account Subtotal Subtotal Total assets 34 16 50 1 9 7 5 100 2 075 2 157 Appropriations carried over by the Budgetary Authority Automatic carry-overs Sundry "accounts due Assets 1996 25 7 Subtotal -32 Liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1996 32 83Ò 862 234 969 76 161 2 9 5 2 157 (') This amount corresponds to the fixed assets.
Source:' Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Recoverable VAT and duties Subtotal Total liabilities
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/61 TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR .1996 Total revenue (in ECU 1 000) 1996 3 000 36 3 036 292 81 884 .
6 3 0 319 2 206 830 830 Revenue Commission subsidy Sundry revenue Expenditure Staff — Title I Payments Buildings, equipment, etc. — Title II Payments Appropriations carried over Operating expenditure — Title III Payments.
Appropriations carried over Outturn for the financial year Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
Total expenditure balance for the financial year
C 393/62 1 EN | Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK The Court of Auditors visited the Agency for Safety and Health at Work from 12 to 16 May 1997 and carried out the audit for the financial year 1996
The Director presented the objectives, programs and activities carried out, under way or planned.
In order to facilitate the work of the Court, the accounts and all relevant supporting documents were made available to the Court.
The personnel files and the contracts concluded were also presented.
The Court forwarded its preliminary comments with a view to drawing up the report on the financial statements of the Agency (financial year 1996) in its letter No 001594 of 15 July 1997.
The Agency, which welcomed the conclusions drawn in paragraph 1.4 of the Court of Auditors' draft report, in so far as the Court states that the financial statements for the financial year 1996 were reliable and, on the whole, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions were guaranteed, would like to comment on the following paragraphs.
Clause 1.5.
The breakdown is incomplete because when the budget was being drawn up in 1995 it was not possible to plan in detail the budgetary requirements for the financial year 1996 and to include specific amounts; this was due to the fact that the agency was in its start-up phase.
As a result, 'token entry' was entered in most chapters.
Clause 1.6.
It is true that there is no documentary evidence to show that the Administrative Board of the Agency approved the amendments to the initial budget for 1996.
In order to avoid a similar situation in the future it was agreed, at the meeting of the Bureau of the Administrative Board on 5 and 6 June 1997, that the minutes of meetings would include, in addition to the account of the discussions at meetings, a document explaining the formal decisions taken, in order to facilitate their retrieval.
Clause 1.7.
The agency does not indeed possess suitable software for its budgetary accounts and it is provisionally using Excel.
In order to overcome this, the Agency has joined forces with the other Agencies to analyze the feasibility of an integrated software package such as the prototype of the beta version of SI2 provided by the European Commission.
Moreover, the Agency is following with interest the progress of the software being developed by Cedefop in Salonika, which would appear to meet our needs as it comprises a budgetary and accounting management module as well as human resource management modules..
The Bilbao Agency will take a decision before the end of the year on the installation of one system or another, depending on the results of tests using both systems and the opinion of the supervisory bodies (Financial Controller and Court of Auditors).
The Agency is doing all it can to improve the administration of its imprest account and in September 1997 installed the RAI software with the assistance of the EMCDDA in Lisbon.
Clause 1.8.
In order to make good the deficiency described by the Court of Auditors, the Agency acquired Cubic software in June 1997 which, the training of the competent staff having been completed, is already being used to keep the general accounts.
Clause 1.9.
It is true that the implementation of the budget for 1996 was adversely affected by the delay in the recruitment of the Director and staff for the administration unit of the Agency.
The said staff were only recruited in May 1997, when the head of the unit and two assistants (a computer expert and a financial officer) took up their posts.
This means that the gradual introduction of all the systems necessary to ensure sound financial management (staff management, budgetary and accounting management, conclusion of contracts and general services) did not begin until after the said date.
Clause 1.10.
At the time of the negotiations on the seat of the Agency the Basque Government and the County of Vizcaya committed themselves to pay 75% of the cost of the rent of the office building occupied by the Agency.
Despite the
29. 12. 97 1 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/63 Absence of an agreement signed between the Agency and the Basque authorities to this effect, the Basque Government has, as of September 1997, paid the Agency a subsidy of Pta 20 million and the County of Vizcaya has initiated the necessary procedures for the payment of its subsidy of Pta 10 million.
Clause 1.11.
In accordance with the provisions of its Financial Regulation, the Agency is doing all it can to make good the deficiencies pointed out by the Court of Auditors as regards public contracts and has recently submitted a draft Regulation for the creation of an ACPC for the opinion of the Financial Controller at the Commission and to the Court of Auditors for information; the regulation is based, as far as possible, on the models adopted by the other agencies.
As regards the contracts for the procurement of goods and services concluded by the Agency, notably since the audit conducted by the Court in May 1997, it should be pointed out that invitations to tender have always been issued, even where the value of the estimated expenditure would have allowed private treaty.
The Agency would like to assure the Court that it is doing all it can to acquire, as quickly as possible, all the means necessary to carry out the improvements indicated by the Court of Auditors.
It would ask the Court to take account of the difficulties it has had in its start-up phase in respecting in full the rules arising from Financial and other Regulations to which all its activities should be subject.
NOTICE TO READERS In 1998 several changes to the Official Journal (OJ) L & C subscription will be introduced.
This notice aims to help paying subscribers make an informed choice about the new possibilities.
EU LAW SERVICE Starting in January 1998, the full text (including tables and graphics) of new editions of the OJ L & C will be available in all 11 languages free of charge on the Internet (http://europa.eu.int) for a period of 20 days.
OJ L&C CD-ROM In 1998 a CD-ROM version of the OJ L & C will be published in quarterly, cumulative, single-language editions.
Current subscribers to the OJ L & C who purchase the CD-ROM subscription in addition to the paper or microfiche version or CELEX will benefit from a promotional discount of 50% on the CD-ROM.
A LAN option will be available.
Individual copies of each CD-ROM can also be purchased.
FLAT FEE SUBSCRIPTION TO CELEX In Spring 1998 a flat fee subscription to CELEX will be available, offering one year's access at a fixed price (960 ECU), independent of consumption.
CELEX is the EU's official legal database offering unparalleled coverage of EU legislation since 1951 (http://europa.eu.int/celex).
PENALTIES FOR LATE RENEWALS OF PAPER SUBSCRIPTION Despatch of the paper version of the OJ L & C will be stopped on 31 January 1998 to all paying subscribers who have not renewed their subscription by then.
Subscribers starting or renewing a subscription to the OJ L & C after this date may choose: (i) not to receive retroactive despatch of missing editions, and pay only for months received; (ii) to receive the CD-ROM version of the missing editions, and pay the normal annual subscription fee; (iii) to receive the paper version of the missing editions, and pay double for each month requiring retroactive despatch.
Please note it is now possible to purchase all versions of subscription to the Official Journal L & C (paper, microfiche, off-line and CELEX) from any member of the EUR,-OP sales networks, except document delivery agents.
Please contact your sales agent for further details on the above.
Price ECU 'L + C' paper version η 700 •L + C' Recruitment microfiches notices (*) ("") 595 30 OJ Supplement (Notices and public contracts) calendar year 1997 1—32 33—64 pages pages 6,50 13 More than 64 pages Price determined case by case BELGIQUE/BELGIE Moniteur beige/Belgisch Staatsblad Rue de Louvain 4042/ Leuvenseweg 4042 Β1000 Bnjxelles/Bnissel Tél.
(322) 552 22 11 Fax (322) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B1060 Bruxelles/Brussel Tel.
(322) 538 51 69 Fax (322) 538 08 41 Email: jean.de.lannoy @ infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Bookhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 B1040 Bruxelles/Brussel Tel.
(322) 295 26 39 Fax 322 735 08 60 DANMARK JH Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 1012 DK2620 Albertslund Tlf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 Email: schultz@schultz.dk URL: www.schultz.dk GERMANY Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 7880 PO Box 10 05 34 D50667 Cologne Tel.
(49221)20 290 Fax 49221 20 29 278 GREECE/ΕΛΛΑΔΑ GC Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR105 64 Athens Tel.
(301)33141 80/1/2/3 Fax (301) 323 98 21 Email: elebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνές Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR105 64 Αβηνσ Τηλ.
(301)3314180/1/2/3 Τέλεφαξ (301 ) 323 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37 E28001 Madrid Tel.
(341) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (341) 575 39 98 Email: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: www.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficlal del Estado Trafalgar, 2729 E28071 Madrid Tel.
(343) 488 34 92 Fax (343 487 76 59 FRANCE Journal officiel Service des publications des CE 26, rue Desaix F75727 Paris Cedex 15 Tel.
(331)40 58 77 01/31 Fax 331 40 58 77 00 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 45 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel.
(3531) 661 31 11 Fax 3531 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 150125 Firenze Tel.
(3955)64 54 15 Fax (3955) 64 12 57 Email: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/ bibliot/vetrina/licosa/tt1 .htm GRANDDUCHÉ DE LUXEMBOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L2411 Luxembourg Tel.
(352)40 10 20 Fax (352) 490 661 Email: mdl@pt.lu Subscriptions: Messageries Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags und Universitâtsbuchhandlung GmbH Siebenbrunnengasse 21 P.O. Box 1 A1050 Vienna Tel.
(431)53 161 334/340 Fax (431) 53 161 339 Email: ausliefer@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa NacionalCasa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira , 16 A Ρ1050 Lisboa Codex Tel.
(3511) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (3511) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlnen Kirjakauppa / Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoisesplanadi 39/ Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
(3589) 121 41 Fax (3589) 121 44 35 Email: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Traktorvagen 11 PO Box 200 S22100 Lund Tel.
(4646)18 00 00 Fax (4646) 18 01 25 Email: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR phone
(44171)873 9090 Fax (44171) 873 8463 URL: www.tnestationeryoffice.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blondal Skólavördustig, 2 IS101 Reykjavik Tel.(354)55 15 650 Fax (354) 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 E tterstad N0606 Oslo Tel.
(4722) 97 45 00 Fax (4722) 97 45 45 SWITZERLAND/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH8035 Zurich Tel.
(411)365 53 15 Fax (411) 365 54 11 Email: urs.leimbacher® ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKA RE PUBLIKA NIS CR prodejna Konviktskâ 5 CZ113 57Praha1 Tel.
(422) 24 22 94 33 Fax (422) 24 22 94 33 Email: nkposp@dec.nis.cz' URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, Grivas Digenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY1509 Nicosia Tel.
(3572) 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (3572) 361 044 Email: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europe Hâz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(361)11 16 061/11 16 216 Fax (361) 302 50 35 Email: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LOA 05 Malta phone
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polona Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL00950 Warsaw Tel.
(482)26 12 01 Fax (482) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dünya Infotel AS Istiklâl Cad.
(90212) 251 91 96 (90312) 427 02 10 Fax (90212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA EuropressEuromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel.
(1613)741 73 33 Fax (1613) 741 54 39 Email: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/renouf EGYPT The Middle East Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.
(813)3234 69 21 Fax (813) 3234 69 15 Email: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psijapan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146 Sandten Tel.
(2711)883 37 37 Fax (2711)883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611F Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) Email: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MEXICO MundlPrensa Mexico, SA de CV RioPânuco, 141 Delegación Cuauhtemoc ME06500 México DF phone
(525) 553 56 58/60 Fax (525) 514 67 99 Email: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please address yourself to the sales office of your choice 95 (Libras)/ 15 (Suscripciones) 49 (Libras)/ 14 (Suscripciones) Euromedia Str.
(401) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax (401) 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Kniznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(427)53 18 364 Fax (427) 53 18 364 Email: eurap@tbb1.sltk.stuba.sk SLOVENIA Gospodarski Vestnik Zalozniska skupina dd
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 Email: belicd@gvestnik.si URL: www.gvestnik.si ISRAEL ROY International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
(9723)546 14 23 Fax (9723) 546 14 42 Email: rayil@netvision.net.il Subagent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 117312 Moscow Tel.(095)135 52 27 Fax 095)135 52 27 SALES AND SUBSCRIPTION PRICES Annual subscription (including normal postage) Single copies (**) More information is available on the European Union via the INTERNET: http:// europa.eu.int * <H> • OFFICE FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES L 2985 LUXEMBOURG paper version 800 CDROM 600 Special mailing charges are invoiced separately.
The Officia/Journal of the European Communities and all other European Communications publications on sale, whether periodical or otherwise, may be ordered at the sales offices listed below.
NB: The subscription to the Official Journal of the European Communities also includes the 'Directory of Community Legislation in Force and other Acts of the Community Institutions' (two editions per year). (*) Only joint subscription (including delivery) are available to the L (Legislation) and C (Information and Notices) series of the Official Journal of the European Communities. (**) The notices of open competition, which are published as annexes to the C series, are basically available free of charge from the Commission's offices in the Member States.
For regular delivery of all notices of competition on a subscription basis a charge is made to cover postage.
SALES AND SUBSCRIPTIONS BG1000 Sofia Tel.
(3592) 80 46 Fax (3592) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR10000 Zagreb Tel.
(3851)43 03 92 Fax (3851) 44 40 ROMANIA 59
C 309/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the 2006 annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/11) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION....... .................................................. ......
1-2 63 DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY ........................................ .....
7 63 Tables 1-4 ....................................... .......................
64 Respondents from the agency ..................................... ................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/63 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 (1) built.
The Agency's tasks include collecting and disseminating information on national and Community priorities in the field of occupational safety and health, assisting the national and Community bodies concerned in formulating and implementing appropriate policies, and providing information on the implementation of preventive measures.
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. This Statement of Assurance is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It is based on the Agency's audit of the accounts, which the Court is required to carry out under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 and sent to the Court, which issued a statement of reliability of the accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying processes.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the statement of assurance below.
Reliability of the annual accounts The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 are reliable in all material respects.
The following remark does not call into question the Court's statement of assurance.
NOTE 7. In 2006 the Director signed 19 decisions for an amount of approximately 880 000 euros authorizing transfers of appropriations from article to article within chapters.
Contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation (4), the Management Board was not provided with the required information.
Thus, the budgetary principle of specialty was not strictly observed.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on June 4, 2007 and received by the Court on July 2, 2007.
(4) Article 23 of the Financial Regulation.
C 309/64 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community areas of competence based on the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No. 2062/94 of 18 July 1994, last amended by Regulation (EC) No. 1112/2005 of 24 June 2005) Governance structure 1. Board of Directors Funds made available to the Agency for 2006 (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Social legislation Objectives Tasks Final budget: Creating links and networking: The community and the Member States (...) shall pursue (...) the improvement of living and working conditions in order thereby to enable their equalization in the course of progress (...).
Ń To improve, in accordance with the Treaty Ń and subsequent action programs on safety and health at work, in particular the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on national and Community priorities and on research; Composition Ń EUR 14.1 million (EUR 13.7 million) In order to achieve the objectives of Article 136, the Community shall support and complement the action of the Member States in the following areas: (a) improving the working environment in particular to protect the health and safety of workers; b) working conditions (...). of the working environment is promoted in order to protect the safety Ń and health of workers, the Agency's aim is to provide the Community institutions, the Member States, the social partners and the Ń interested parties with all the relevant technical, scientific and economic information in the field of safety and health protection in the workplace.
promoting cooperation and the exchange of information, including the provision of information on training programs; Ń one representative of workers' organizations from each Member State; Dissemination of information: (Excerpts from Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) Provision of information for the formulation and implementation of an effective policy for the Community bodies and Member States, particularly as regards the impact on SMEs; 2. Board of Directors Headcount as of December 31, 2006: Third generation occupational health and safety information services delivered over the Internet. Source: Agency information.
Ń Provision of information on preventive measures; Ń one other representative of each group and the Commission.
26 (20) other posts (auxiliaries, seconded national experts, local staff) Ń Ń Contribute to the development of strategies and future Community action programmes; Monitoring the preparation and implementation of the decisions of the Board of Directors.
4. Committees Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Ń One government representative from each Member State; of which: Ń Strengthening the tripartite structure in the Agency's networks; Ń one representative of the employers' organizations from each Member State; Ń Community grant, DG Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: 93.5% (96%), Ń Institutional capacity building in candidate countries (PHARE programmes).
Ń miscellaneous income: 2%(1%). Composition 40 (40) established posts, Ń Chairman and 3 Vice-Chairmen of the Governing Board; of which staffed: 33 (32), knowledge development: Ń one coordinator per group; of which vacant: 7 (8).
Ń Information material for national and European Week campaigns 2006 (on young workers) and 2007 (MSE); Task Information material on older workers, occupational safety and health (OSH) & economic performance in the HORECA sector; 3. Director By the Board of Directors at the proposal of the Commission of which account for Ń operational activities: Ń information material on risk monitoring, including reports on research priorities in the field of OSH, biological agents and ultraviolet rays; Data collection on stress, problems due to concussion and skin problems and MSDs among young workers in the framework of the European Weeks 2006 and 2007, feasibility study for a company survey. appointed.
42 (35), Ń administrative activities: Mandatory consultation of the Commission and the Advisory Committee on Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work on the work programme.
5. External Control Court of Auditors.
6. Discharge authority European Parliament on a recommendation from the Council.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/65 Source of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community grants 13 200 247 11 900 248 Title I Staff Title II Material expenditure Title III Operational expenditure 4 556 1 524 7 367 4 080 1 481 7 025 3 831 1 083 5 060 125 600 75 28 47 Other income 381 61 331 313 17 Assigned income (1) 518 312 Assigned income (1) 518 407 324 194 0 206 0 206 Operating income Fixed assets Total 12 5 965 Total 12 5 965 12 993 10 298 2 663 1 005 2 155 670 Supplement of the Community Other Looks Other Erršge 11 730 238 1 548 11 021 2 460 71 Subjects 247 Company expenses Short -term pre -finance short demands and bar agent 45 2990 3 774 454 Personnel expenses Material expenses (1) Other administrative expenses Other operating expenses 3 640 139 1 825 8 028 13 632 Đ 84 6 Đ6 Đ 90 3 312 Đ14 1 692 8 584 13 575 190 7 Đ7 183 Total assets 142 3 392 4 327 Revenue Expenditure Final budget appropriations Revenue recorded in the final budget of the financial year Appropriations carried over from the previous year (1) The amount recorded in the budget for assigned revenue is 661 000 euro, from who only received 518,000 euros.
In order to provide a picture that corresponds to the actual circumstances, the correct amount of 518,000 euros is shown here.
Total (b) Surpluses (losses) from operating activities (c = a Đ b) Provisions for risks and liabilities Accounts payable 63 1 981 2 044 58 2 448 2 507 Financial expenses (d) Net assets Surpluses (losses) from non-operating activities ( e = d) Economic outturn for the financial year (f = c + e) Cumulative surpluses/losses Economic outturn for the financial year 1 820 Đ 90 1 730 3 774 1 637 183 1 820 4 327 (1) The negative amount for 2005 is due to of corrections. Total net assets Total liabilities and net assets Total (a) Current assets 2006 2005 2006 2005 (1 000 euros) (1 000 euros) Table 2 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Ń Budget implementation for the financial year 2006 Source: Information provided by Agency Ń This table summarizes the information reported by the Agency in its annual accounts.
The collected revenues and the payments are estimated according to the method of cash-based accounting.
Table 3 Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) - Economic outturn account for the financial years 2006 and 2005 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) - Balance sheet as at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 Source: Agency information Ń This table summarizes the information reported by the Agency in its annual accounts.
C 309/66 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 1. The Agency accepts the comment.
Since July 2007, the Management Board has been notified of all decisions of the Director concerning transfers of appropriations via the Agency's extranet.
C 311/50 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/08) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY ................................................ .
Tables 1-4 ................................................ .......................
52 Respondents from the agency ..................................... ................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/51 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 (1 ) built.
The agency's tasks include collecting and disseminating information on national and EU priorities in the field of occupational safety and health, assisting the national and EU bodies concerned in formulating and implementing appropriate measures, and providing information on preventive measures §taking.
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 3. This Statement of Assurance is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It is based on the Agency's accounts audit, which the Court is required to carry out under Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 and sent to the Court, which issued a statement of reliability of the accounts as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying processes.
5. The Court conducted its audit in accordance with the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAIs) and the IFAC International Code of Ethics(4) where applicable in the Community context.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the following statement of assurance: Reliability of the accounts The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 are reliable in all material respects.
For the Court of Auditors V'tor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President (1) OJ.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on 24 June 2008 and received by the Court on 26 June 2008.
(4) ISSAI stands for International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC stands for International Federation of Accountants.
C 311/52 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Community competences under the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005). ) Governance 1. Governing Board Funds made available to the Agency for 2007 (data for 2006) Products and services in 2007 Social legislation Objectives Tasks Final budget: Creating links and networking: The Community and the Member States (...) to pursue (.. .) the improvement of living and working conditions in order to enable their equalization on the path of progress (...).
Thus, in accordance with the Treaty and subsequent Community Strategies and Programs of Action for Safe-Collection, Analysis and Dissemination of Information on National and Community Priorities and Research; Composition Ń 14.9 million (14.1 million euros) euros Ń Completion and follow-up of the second external evaluation of the Agency's performance; In order to achieve the objectives of Article 136, the Community shall support and supplement the activities of the Member States in the following areas: (a) improving the working environment, in particular with a view to protecting the health and safety of workers; b) working conditions; (...)
To provide representatives of (excerpts from Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) the field of safety and health at work.
Ń Task 25 (26) other posts (auxiliaries, contract agents, seconded national experts and local agents). health and safety at work, the working environment is improved in order to protect the Ń safety and health of workers, agreed a representative of employers' organizations from each Member State; 93.8% Ń Community grant, DG Ń Institutional capacity building in candidate and potential candidate countries (Phare and CARDS programmes). The Agency aims to provide the Community bodies, the Member States, the Ń social partners and interested parties with all relevant technical, scientific and economic information to Ń three Commission representatives.
Total staff: 63 (59), of which account for operational activities: 47 (42) administrative activities: 9 (9) other activities: 7 (8) Ń Monitoring and evaluation: evaluation report 2005 on the 'Noise!' campaign; online survey of website users; Conducting website benchmarking.
Ń Chairman and 3 Vice-Chairmen of the Board of Directors; Composition Ń Information material for national campaigns and European Week campaigns in 2007 (musculoskeletal disorders) and 2008 (risk assessment); Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Ń one government representative from each Member State; of which: Ń Community grant, DG Ń one coordinator from each of the three stakeholders; Ń Information material on projects on occupational safety and health and on economic performance, on the HORECA sector (hospitality), on the integration of occupational safety and health in education and on cleaning workers; Ń one other representative of each group and the Commission.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/53 Source: Agency data. Community areas of competence under the Treaty Competences of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Governance Structure Resources made available to the Agency for 2007 (information for 2006) Products and Services in 2007 Task Ń To improve overall the quality and accessibility of information on good practice on the Agency's website and online thesaurus. Monitoring the preparation and implementation of the decisions of the Board of Directors.
4. Committees Mandatory consultation of the Commission and the Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work on the work program and budget.
5. External Control Court of Auditors.
6. Discharge authority European Parliament on a recommendation from the Council.
C 311/54 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Source of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community grants Other revenue 14 000 430 13 000 443 Title I Staff 4 797 1 623 8 010 4 292 1 443 7 880 3 996 1 087 4 972 160 641 184 130 125 79 47 Evaluated income 498 430 Early income 498 391 147 282 68 194 0 Total 14 928 14 006 10 202 1 023 2 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 312 -be Budget for the financial year Revenue shown Appropriations carried over from the previous year Title II Management 352 381 369 11 Title III Operational expenditure 2 908 1 963 1 670 293 Table 2 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Ń Implementation of the budget for the financial year 2007 Source : Agency information.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Summary of the economic outturn for the financial years 2007 and 2006 C 311/55 Operating income Community grant Other grants Other income Operating expenses Personnel expenses Material expenses Other Administrative expenses Company expenses in total (A) 2007 12 682 3480 13 505 3 661 13 222 13 011 494 đ3 đ 3 491 (1,000 euros) 2006 11 730 238 1 548 3 640 139 1 825 8 028 13 632 Đ 84 Đ6 Đ 6 Đ 90 Total (b) Surpluses/(losses) from operating activities (c = a Đb) Expenses from financial transactions (d) Surpluses/(losses) from non-operating activities (e = d) Economic outturn of the year (f = c + e) Source: Agency data.
Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Ń Statement of assets at 31 December 2007 and at 31 December 2006 2007 (1 000 euros) 2006 71 247 4 435 27 2 990 3 774 63 1 981 2 044 1 730 1 820 ± 90 1 730 Fixed assets Intangible assets 44 Tangible assets 261 Long-term receivables Current assets Short-term pre-financing Short-term receivables Cash and cash equivalents Short-term liabilities Provisions for risks and liabilities Accounts payable Reserves Cumulative surplus/loss Economic result for the year Total assets Total liabilities Net assets Net assets 70 2 654 2 724 2 221 1 730 491 2 221 Source: Agency data.
C 311/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 THE AGENCY'S REPLIES 1. The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union IV (Information) INFORMATION FROM EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS, BODIES, OFFICES AND AGENCIES COURT OF AUDITORS Annual report on the EU agencies for the financial year 2017 (2018/C 434/01) CONTENTS C 434/1 EN List of acronyms .................................................. ........................ Page 2 4 15 29 CHAPTER 1 CHAPTER2 CHAPTER 3 The EU agencies and the Court's audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Overview of the exam results ........................................
EN C 434/2 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 LIST OF CODES The List of Codes contains the Union agencies and other bodies that are the subject of this report.
Full title Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators Office of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications Translation Center for the Bodies of the European Union European Center for the Development of Vocational Training Consumer, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency Community Plant Variety Office Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency European Agency Aviation Safety Executive Agency for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises European Asylum Support Office European Banking Authority European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction European Center for Disease Prevention and Control European Chemicals Agency European Fisheries Control Agency European Food Safety Authority European Institute for Corporate Insurance and Insurance Old rs supply European Institute of Innovation and Technology European Medicines Agency European Maritime Safety Agency European Union Agency for Network and Information Security Acronym ACER Office of BEREC CdT Cedefop Chafea CPVO EACEA EASA EASME EASO EBA EBDD ECDC ECHA EFCA EFSA EIGE EIOPA EIT EMA EMSA ENISA headquarters Ljubljana, Slovenia Riga, Latvia Luxembourg, Luxembourg Thessaloniki, Greece Luxembourg, Luxembourg Angers, France Brussels, Belgium Cologne, Germany Brussels, Belgium Valletta, Malta London, United Kingdom Lisbon, Portugal Stockholm, Sweden Helsinki, Finland Vigo, Spain Parma, Italy Vilnius, Lithuania Frankfurt, Germany Budapest, Hungary London, United Kingdom Lisbon, Portugal Heraklion, Greece
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union Code EPA ERA ERCEA ESMA ETF EUA EUIPO eu-LISA EU-OSHA Euratom Eurofound Eurojust Europol FRA Frontex GSA INEA REA SRB C 434/3 Full title European Union Agency for Education and Training on the Law Enforcement Area European Union Agency for Railways European Research Council Executive Agency European Securities and Markets Authority European Training Foundation European Environment Agency European Union Intellectual Property Office European Agency for the operational management of large-scale IT systems in the area of freedom, security and justice European Agency for Safety and Health at Work Euratom Supply Agency European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions European Unit for Judicial Cooperation European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation Agency of the European Union for Fundamental Rights European Border and Coast Guard Agency European GNSS Agency Innovation and Networks Executive Agency Research Executive Agency Single Resolution Board Headquarters Budapest, Hungary Valenciennes, France Brussels, Belgium Paris, France Turin, Italy Copenhagen, Denmark Alicante, Spain Tallinn , Estonia Bilbao, Spain Luxembourg, Luxembourg Dublin, Ireland The Hague, Netherlands The Hague, Netherlands Vienna, Austria Warsaw, Poland Prague, Czech Republic Brussels, Belgium Brussels, Belgium Brussels, Belgium
EN C 434/4 Official Journal of the European Union CHAPTER 1 The EU Agencies and the Court's audit CONTENTS INTRODUCTION ............................ ..............................
Decentralized Agencies address specific policy needs The Commission's Executive Agencies implement EU programs . . . . . . .
THECOURT'S AUDIT ................................................ .
11/30/2018 Number Page 1.1-1.3 5 1.4-1.21 5 1.4-1.14 5 1.8-1.9 7 1.10 8 1.11-1.14 8 1.15-1.20 8 1.21 13 1.22-1.32 13 1.22-1.24 13 1.25-1
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/5 INTRODUCTION 1.1.
According to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (1), the European Court of Auditors is the external auditor of the EU finances.
In this capacity, the Court exercises the role of independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the Union, in particular by helping to improve EU financial management.
More detailed information on the Court's work can be found in its annual activity reports and annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget, as well as in its special reports, landscape reviews and opinions on new or amended EU legislation or other decisions affecting financial management (2nd ).
As part of its mandate, the Court annually audits the annual accounts and the transactions underlying them of all the institutions, agencies and other bodies of the Union (3).
This report presents the findings of our audit of the EU agencies and other Union bodies (collectively ăthe AgenciesŇ) for the financial year 2017.
The report is structured as follows: Ń Chapter 1 gives an overview of the agencies and the nature of the Court's audit. Ń Chapter 2 presents the overall results of the test. Ń Chapter 3 contains a statement of assurance for each of the 41 agencies, together with the audit opinions and the Court's observations on the reliability of the agencies' accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying revenue and payments (transactions).
THE EU AGENCIES Different types of agencies contribute to the shaping and implementation of EU policies 1.4.
Agencies are separate bodies with their own legal personality, created by a secondary act to perform specific technical, scientific or managerial tasks, thereby helping to shape and implement the policies of the EU institutions.
Many agencies are highly visible and have a significant impact on important areas relevant to the everyday lives of European citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice.
Accompanying their statements of assurance in Chapter 3 is a brief description of the tasks performed by each agency.
In this report, the agencies are referred to by their respective abbreviations, which can be found in the list at the beginning of this report.
There are three types of agencies: decentralized agencies, executive agencies and other bodies.
Their main characteristics are explained below.
The number of agencies has increased over the years and in 2017 there were 41 agencies as shown in Box 1.1.
(1) Articles 285 to 287 (OJ C 326, 26.10.2012, pp. 169-171).
(2) Available on the Court's website: www.eca.europa.eu (3) Three agencies active in the field of defense (the European Defense Agency, the European Union Institute for Security Studies and the European Union Satellite Centre) composed of contributions from the Member States are not audited by the Court but by other independent external auditors.
EN C 434/6 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Box 1.1 Increase in number of agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
Like the Commission itself, the executive agencies of the Commission are based in Brussels or Luxembourg.
Decentralized agencies and other bodies are based throughout the EU and are spread across 23 different Member States, as shown in the list of acronyms and Figure 1.2.
The seat of the agencies is decided by the Council or jointly by the Council and the European Parliament.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/7 Illustration 1.2 Location of agencies in Member States Source: European Court of Auditors.
Decentralized agencies address specific policy needs 1.8.
The 32 decentralized agencies (4) play an important role in the preparation and implementation of EU policies, particularly as regards technical, scientific, operational and/or regulatory tasks.
The primary aim here is to meet special political requirements and to strengthen European cooperation by pooling the technical and expert knowledge of the EU and national governments.
The decentralized agencies have been set up for an indefinite period by regulation of the Council or of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Decentralized agencies work under the control of a Management Board composed of representatives of the Member States, the Commission and, in some agencies, other parties.
The Governing Board sets the operational framework to be followed by the agencies such as the multi-annual and annual work programme, the draft budgets and the establishment plans, which are implemented under the responsibility of the respective Executive Directors/Directors.
Each decentralized agency is subject to its own discharge procedure in relation to the implementation of its budget, covering staff, administrative and operational expenditure. In most cases, discharge is granted by the European Parliament and the Council (5).
(4) Cedefop, Eurofound, EEA, ETF, EMA, EMCDDA, CdT, CPVO, EUIPO, EU-OSHA, FRA, EASA, EFSA, EMSA, Eurojust, ECDC, ENISA, ERA, Frontex, GSA, EPA, EFCA, ECHA , EIGE, ACER, BEREC Office, Europol, EASO, EBA, EIOPA, ESMA and eu-LISA.
(5) Two self-funded agencies (CPVO and EUIPO) are subject to the discharge procedure by their Management Board.
EN C 434/8 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The Commission's executive agencies implement EU programs 1.10.
The Commission's six executive agencies(6) are responsible for implementation and operational tasks related to one or more Union programmes. Their validity is limited in time.
They were set up by decision of the Commission and operate under the supervision of a steering committee appointed by the Commission.
Its work is based on multiannual and annual work programs that are established and implemented under the responsibility of an Executive Director.
They are subject to individual discharge procedures by the European Parliament and Council for their own budgets.
Unlike decentralized agencies, their budgets only cover staff and administrative expenditure, while all operational expenditure they make comes from the Commission's budget and is therefore part of the overall discharge given to the Commission.
The executive agencies' own budget therefore represents only a very small part of the budget they actually implement.
The other institutions have special tasks 1.11.
The three other bodies are the EIT, the Euratom Supply Agency and the SRB.
The EIT in Budapest is an independent, decentralized institution of the EU that pools resources from the fields of science, business and education in order to strengthen the innovative power of the Union by providing financial support.
The Institute was set up by the European Parliament and the Council for an indefinite period.
It is managed by a Director and overseen by a Management Board, and is subject to its own discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Euratom Supply Agency in Luxembourg was set up by the Council for an indefinite period to support the objectives of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community.
It is subject to its own discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council.
An Advisory Board, composed of members from the Member States, assists the Euratom Supply Agency in fulfilling its tasks by issuing opinions and providing analysis and information.
The Director General of the Euratom Supply Agency works under the supervision of the Commission.
The SRB is the central resolution authority in the banking union and is based in Brussels.
The mandate of the SRB is the orderly resolution of banks threatened with insolvency with the least possible impact on the real economy, the financial system and the public finances of the participating member states and beyond.
The SRB is represented by its Chair, who also acts as the Appointing Authority.
The Chair of the SRB is subject to a separate discharge procedure by the Board, which comprises members of the national resolution authorities of the participating Member States.
Agencies are funded from different sources and under different MFF headings 1.15.
The total budget of all agencies (excluding the SRB) was €3.5 billion in 2017 (2016: €3.4 billion). This corresponds to around 2.7% of the total EU budget in 2017 (2016: 2.4%), as shown in Box 1.3.
The agencies with the highest increase in appropriations in 2017 were the GSA and EIT, funded under MFF (7) subheading 1a (Competitiveness for growth and jobs), and Frontex, EMA and EASO, funded under MFF (7) Heading 3 (Security and Citizenship) will be funded.
Added to this is the SRB's 2017 budget of EUR 6.6 billion (2016: EUR 11.8 billion) (8).
It consists of the contributions paid by credit institutions into the Single Resolution Fund.
(6) INEA, REA, EACEA, ERCEA, Chafea and EASME.
(7) EU Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2014-2020.
(8) The revenue budget for 2016 consisted not only of the 2016 contributions of credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund, but also of the 2015 contributions collected by the NRAs in 2015 but only passed on to the Fund in January 2016 .
Therefore, the total budget for 2017 is much lower than the budget for 2016 (6.6 billion vs. 11.8 billion euros).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/9 1.17.
The budgets of the decentralized agencies and other bodies cover staff, administrative and operational expenditure, while the executive agencies implement programs funded by the Commission's budget and their own budgets (totalling around 241 million euro) only cover staff and administrative expenditure.
The Commission's operational expenditure, implemented by the six executive agencies, amounted to around €6.8 billion in 2017; this is more than double the total budget of all other agencies combined excluding the SRB.
Figure 1.3 Agencies' sources of funding in 2017 Source: 2017 EU general budget and 2017 agencies' budgets, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
Most agencies, including executive agencies, are funded almost entirely from the general EU budget.
The other agencies are fully or partially funded by fees and charges and by direct contributions from the participating countries such as Member States, EFTA countries, etc. The total EU budget came to around 2.5 billion euros. Added to this was EUR 1 billion from fees and charges as well as direct contributions from the participating countries.
Box 1.4 shows a breakdown of agencies by the size of the contribution they receive from the EU budget.
EN C 434/10 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Box 1.4 Agencies by size of EU budget contribution Source: Agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/11 1.19.
The €2.5 billion in contributions from the general EU budget are funded under different MFF headings, as shown in Box 1.5.
Figure 1.5 Agencies funding by MFF headings of the EU general budget Source: EU Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020 and Agencies budgets 2017, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
In terms of staff, the Agencies employed around 11 000 staff (9) at the end of 2017 (2016: 10 300); this corresponds to around one sixth of the total staff employed by the EU institutions and agencies.
Figure 1.6 shows the breakdown of the total number of staff by agency.
(9) The staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
EN C 434/12 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Box 1.6 Headcount by agency at the end of 2017 Source: Agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/13 The EU agencies network promotes inter-agency cooperation and communication with stakeholders 1.21.
The EU Agencies Network (EUAN) was set up by the agencies as an inter-agency collaborative forum to increase the agencies' visibility, identify and promote potential efficiency gains and add value.
The EUAN works on the basis of the priorities set by the agencies in a 5-year strategic agenda (2015-2020) and the annual work programs that define the activities and the results to be achieved.
An important role for the EUAN is to ensure efficient communication between the agencies and the stakeholders, mainly the EU institutions.
THE COURT'S AUDIT The Court's mandate is to audit the agencies' accounts and operations 1.22.
In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court shall have (a) the annual accounts of all agencies, consisting of the annual accounts(10) and the reports on budgetary implementation (11) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these financial statements are based.
On the basis of the results of its audit, the Court provides the European Parliament and the Council or the other discharge authorities referred to in Chapter 3 of this report with a statement for each agency on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions .
In accordance with Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (12), the annual accounts of 32 agencies receiving contributions from the EU budget have been audited by independent external auditors.
The Court verified the reliability of the results of this review in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and took these into account when preparing its own audit opinions.
The Court's audit addresses the risks identified 1.25.
In order to obtain reasonable assurance, the Court has designed its audit to highlight the main risks identified. The reliability of the agencies' accounts is generally at low risk 1.26.
Overall, the Court assesses the risk to the reliability of the accounts as low for all agencies. The agencies' accounts are prepared using accounting rules adopted by the Commission's Accounting Officer, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
The number of material errors identified in the past was small.
Title I (staff expenditure) 1.28.
The management of salaries by the Commission's PMO (Office for the Administration and Settlement of Individual Claims) is audited by the Court as part of its specific assessments of administrative expenditure.
No material errors have been identified in connection with personnel expenses in recent years.
However, if the agencies need to recruit large numbers of additional staff in the short term, there is a medium to high risk to the legality and regularity of the recruitment procedures.
(10) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(11) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
(12) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No. 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ
EN C 434/14 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Title II (Administrative expenditure) 1.29.
The procurement of various services (with increasing amounts in IT) involves complex procurement rules and procedures and agencies' administrations sometimes do not achieve satisfactory transparency and best value for money.
Serious procurement errors affecting payment conditions have regularly been one of the main reasons for the Court's qualified opinions and observations.
Title III (operational expenditure) 1.30.
There is a low to high risk.
This depends on each agency and the nature of its operational spend.
In general, the risks associated with procurement are comparable to those of Title II, although the amounts involved may be higher.
Concerning the grants paid under Budget Title III, previous audits found that, despite general improvements, the agencies' controls were not always fully effective.
There is a medium risk in terms of sound financial management, identified mainly in the areas of IT and public procurement.
The Court has already reported its findings on different IT landscapes in the agencies, weaknesses in IT project management and procurement procedures that did not ensure best value for money.
Generally speaking, there is a risk in terms of administrative efficiency associated with the large number of small agencies (see Figures 1.4 and 1.6) which have their own administrative structures and procedures.
THE RESULTS OF THE ANNUAL AUDITS OF THE AGENCIES FOR THE YEAR 2017 ARE OVERALL POSITIVE ....................................... .....................
Unqualified opinions on the reliability of the accounts for all agencies ........................................ ...............
Emphasis of matter paragraphs are essential to understanding the financial statements ........................................ ........
The Court's observations cover a wide range of subjects. . . . . . . AUDIT RESULTS FROM OTHER AGENCY-RELATED REPORTS PREPARED BY 2017 .................................................
Court's special report on the SRB ..................................
EN C 434/16 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 INTRODUCTION 2.1.
This chapter provides an overview of the results of the Court's annual audits of the agencies for 2017, as well as other agency-related audit work carried out by the Court during 2017.
THE RESULTS OF THE ANNUAL AUDITS OF THE AGENCIES FOR THE YEAR 2017 ARE POSITIVE OVERALL 2.3.
Overall, as regards the agencies' accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the revenue and payments underlying those accounts, the Court's audit confirms the positive results of previous years.
The Court has given unqualified audit opinions on the accounts of all agencies.
In his opinion, the agencies' annual accounts present their financial position as at 31 December 2017 and the results of their operations and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with their respective financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer (13) appropriate in all material respects.
Emphasis of matter paragraphs are fundamental to understanding the financial statements 2.5.
With regard to EASO, the Court pointed out that the staffing situation at the Office was deteriorating exponentially.
The office currently does not have the administrative capacity to fill the many vacancies.
Overall, the continuation of the office's activities to the current extent is considerably threatened by the personnel situation.
In the case of the SRB, the Court highlighted that the contributions to the Single Resolution Fund are calculated on the basis of the information that credit institutions provide to the Board through the national resolution authorities.
However, the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation does not provide a comprehensive and consistent control framework to ensure the reliability of this information.
The Court also found that the method for calculating contributions set out in the legislation is very complex, which entails risks for accuracy.
For reasons of confidentiality, the Committee may not disclose the bank data used to calculate the fund contributions; this reduces transparency.
Regarding ECHA, the Court highlighted that the agency is partly self-financed and that it receives a fee from any company applying for the registration of chemicals, as foreseen by the REACH Regulation(14).
The agency calculates and invoices the fees on the basis of the information provided by the companies at the time of application.
The ex-post reviews carried out by the Agency have revealed the need for significant fee revisions, the total amount of which was not known at the end of 2017.
This finding demonstrates the limitations of a system that relies too heavily on self-reporting by applicants.
With regard to the GSA, the Court pointed out that the outcome of the public procurement procedure for one of the agency's main contracts (framework agreement worth €1.5 billion) was contested by one of the bidders.
With regard to the two London-based agencies (EMA and EBA), we noted that they will leave the UK in 2019 and that their annual accounts and accompanying notes have been prepared on the basis of the information available at the time of their signature.
The Court also drew attention to the impact of the current lease arrangements in London and the possible loss of revenue as a result of the UK's exit from the EU.
These are based on internationally recognized accounting principles for the public sector. Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of December 18, 2006 on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (OJ
L 396 of 30.12.2006, p. 1).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/17 Unqualified opinions on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts of all agencies 2.12.
For all agencies, the Court has issued unqualified opinions on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In the Court's assessment, the revenue was legal and regular in all material respects.
Unqualified opinions on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the agencies' accounts (except EASO) 2.13.
For 40 agencies the Court issued unqualified opinions on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In the Court's assessment, the payments were legal and regular in all material respects.
Since the violations occur systematically, the internal control system is obviously inadequate.
The cumulative error due to irregular payments is at least €7.7 million or 10.3% of the total payments made by the Office in 2017.
Paragraphs referring to other facts deal with questions of special importance 2.15.
Miscellaneous Matters paragraphs are intended to alert the reader to important matters that are not presented or disclosed in the financial statements or affect the legality and regularity of receipts and payments.
Regarding the EIT, we found that the original reimbursement rates for Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) were increased towards the end of the eligibility period.
In addition, two KICs have retrospectively included some new activities in their annual business plans.
For one of the KICs, this resulted in a significant change to the original grant decision.
Significant changes may affect the equal treatment of KICs and are not in line with the Financial Regulation.
In the case of Frontex, the Court has repeatedly reported since 2014 that the cooperating states often provide insufficient evidence of the expenditure they claim.
This was also confirmed by this year's test results.
In response to the Court's recommendation in 2016, Frontex is currently introducing a simplified cost reimbursement model.
With regard to EBA, EIOPA and ESMA, we pointed out that their budgets are funded partly by European Union funds and partly by direct contributions from the supervisory authorities and/or supervised entities of the EU Member States.
As a result of the UK's decision to leave the EU, government revenues could decrease in the future.
With regard to the GSA, the Court reported that the Agency operates both the Galileo Security Center (GSMC) and Galileo Earth Stations in the UK, which may need to be relocated.
With regard to the CdT, the Court drew attention to the fact that several agencies were increasingly resorting to in-house or other alternative translation solutions, which meant that the capacity of the center was not being used to the maximum.
In addition, there is a duplication of effort at the European level with regard to the development of translation systems and the running costs.
The Office of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC's Office) commissioned the CdT in December 2016 to translate four calls for expressions of interest with a view to drawing up reserve lists, even though all the posts approved by the Budgetary Authority in the Office's establishment plan were filled .
In our opinion, the translation order issued in December 2016 was not justified.
The payment made on this contract in March 2017 amounted to 2.5% of the 2017 budget.
EN C 434/18 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Box 2.1 Annual opinions 2014-2017 on the agencies' accounts and operations Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Court's observations cover a wide range of issues 2.22.
The Court made a total of 145 observations, covering 37 agencies, to underline important issues and identify areas for improvement.
These comments, set out in Chapter 3, are summarized below.
Major risks lead to major weaknesses in EASO 2.23.
In the case of EASO, the Court drew attention to the major risks posed to the Office by the nature of its activities and the exceptional challenges posed by the migration crisis.
These risks have not been mitigated by sound governance and effective controls, resulting in numerous material breaches of the law.
The office has been struggling with high staff turnover since 2014. The recruitment procedures were suspended in December 2017.
In addition, the Office does not have an internal audit function or a legal service, and legal documents are not systematically checked.
Almost all the audited services based on public procurement or recruitment procedures were systematically affected by significant deficiencies related to the identification of the office's needs, the drafting of the specifications, the choice of the type of contract, the evaluation and award procedures, the changes and renewals of contracts, the execution of the contracts and the verification of the services rendered, etc. affected.
These shortcomings are contrary to the principles of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/19 Progress towards a more unified IT landscape 2.26.
The operative activities of the agencies are wide-ranging and require suitable, sometimes tailor-made IT solutions.
However, core operational and administrative activities are performed under the same legal framework, suggesting that their procedures are similar and that similar IT solutions can be used to support these procedures.
While the agencies have made very good progress in deploying similar budgeting and accounting systems - the Court reported on this in its 2016 summary report on the results of the agencies' audits - work has been done in other key areas such as human resource management and procurement and administration still uses a variety of IT solutions.
The agencies are considering further standardizing IT solutions in these areas, primarily to increase cost-efficiency, reduce risks associated with internal control and strengthen IT governance.
In 2017, a number of advances were made in IT tools for human resources management, when 20 agencies signed agreements with the Commission to use the SYSPER II tool, which will create a more unified IT landscape in this area.
The majority of agencies are expected to start using the Commission's tool from 1 January 2019, while some agencies will start using it from the third quarter of 2018.
In this fragmented IT landscape, the use of similar electronic tools to procure supplies and services (e-procurement) would also represent an important step towards a more unified IT framework among agencies.
According to the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation, which entered into force in 2012 and 2013 respectively, all EU institutions and agencies ădesign as far as possible solutions for the submission, storage and processing of data submitted in grant and procurement procedures and implement To this end, they set up a common area for electronic data exchange for applicants, applicants and biddersŇ (15), (16).
While no target date has been set in the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation for the introduction of e-procurement, the EU Public Procurement Directive(17), adopted in 2014, requires the use of electronic means for public procurement in EU Member States by 2018, and according to the EU directive on electronic invoicing(18), also issued in 2014, all public institutions must allow the receipt of electronic invoices by 2019.
(15) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(16) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 1271/2013 of 30 September 2013 on the framework financial regulation for bodies pursuant to Article 208 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No. 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Article 79 Electronic administration (ăe-GovernmentŇ) (OJ
(17) Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC (OJ
(18) Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 16, 2014 on electronic invoicing for public contracts (OJ
EN C 434/20 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2.29.
All agencies publish their calls for tender electronically via TED (Tenders Electronic Daily), the online version of the EU's Official Journal for Public Procurement. In addition, the Commission launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015). Most agencies had introduced e-invoicing and e-tendering for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not e-submission.
Improvement in the area of IT consulting services and project management at the EMA and eu-LISA IT consulting services and project management at the EMA 2.30.
During the audit carried out last year, the Court analyzed how the Agency manages consultancy services.
Over-reliance on consulting firms has led to a critical reliance on outside expertise.
The Court also reported that there was insufficient control over project development and implementation and that projects were experiencing significant delays and cost increases.
During 2017, the Agency took several measures to improve the situation.
However, it will take time to reduce the agency's critical reliance on consulting firms and the impact of the actions taken will only be felt over the years.
IT consulting services and project management at eu-LISA 2.32.
Due to the nature of its activity, the Agency uses consulting services mainly in connection with IT projects.
In 2017, the agency's IT projects were implemented within budget and on schedule.
The Agency uses an outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, with around 90% of the relevant work being carried out by three contractors.
Although IT projects are owned and controlled by the Agency, a model where development activities for such sensitive IT systems are outsourced on this scale risks over-dependence on contractors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/21 2.34.
At the same time, the small number of staff in key operational units creates a risk for the continuity of operations.
Public procurement aims to ensure competition between economic operators and to ensure the most economically advantageous purchase, operating in a transparent, objective and consistent manner, based on the applicable legal framework.
The Court found weaknesses in public procurement, mostly related to 14 agencies (BEREC Office, EPO, Chafea, eu-LISA, EASO, EBA, EEA, EFSA, EIGE, EUIPO, ERA, EASA, FRA and SRB). to services that harbor risks for the optimal use of funds.
The most common shortcomings identified are the lack of a good balance between price and quality aspects in the award criteria, the sub-optimal design of the framework agreements, the use of framework agreements that allow the procurement of services whose description and/or price were not sufficiently specified and the use of intermediary services.
Most agencies analyzed the impact of Brexit 2.36. On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to leave the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, five agencies (ACER, Office of BEREC, EPO, ENISA and EU-OSHA) did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the possible impact of Brexit on their organisation, operations and accounts.
Vacancy notices could be published on the EPSO website 2.37.
Most Agencies (ACER, Cedefop, EPA, Chafea, EASA, EBA, ECHA, EUA, EIGE, EIOPA, EIT, EMA, EMCDDA, EMSA, ENISA, ESMA, eu-LISA, Eurojust, Europol, Frontex, GSA and SRB) publish vacancies on their own websites and social media, but often not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
A publication on the EPSO website would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to consult vacancies in all European institutions and bodies.
The main reason given by the agencies is that EPSO requires publication of vacancy notices in all official EU languages, which entails high translation costs.
Fewer comments on legality and regularity of payments 2.38.
The number of observations on the legality and regularity of payments decreased to eight (2016: 11), reflecting the agencies' ongoing efforts to comply with the legal framework, in particular the provisions of the Financial and Framework Financial Regulations and the Staff Regulations.
While five observations again concerned shortcomings related to procurement procedures (EASO, EASA, EIGE and Frontex), three related to recruitment procedures (EASO, Cedefop and Frontex).
Housekeeping has improved 2.39.
According to the Financial Regulation, budget appropriations granted for a given year may be carried over to the next budget year under certain conditions (19).
It is true that the Financial Regulation does not set any upper limits for transfers of this type, and the multi-annual nature of the activities means that the transfers are largely justified. However, excessive carry-overs may indicate delays in the implementation of work programs or procurement plans and may also run counter to the budgetary principle of annuality.
Box 2.4 shows for how many agencies we reported high carryovers in 2017 and previous years.
The decrease to only two agencies (Chafea and EU-OSHA) in 2017 is due to the agencies' better and more transparent explanation and justification of the transfers, but also to the Court's changed approach to reporting in 2017.
(19) The conditions for transfers are explained in Article 13 of the Financial Regulation.
EN C 434/22 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Box 2.4 Fewer comments on excessive or high carryovers Source: ECA based on information from the agencies.
The Court also found that two agencies (Frontex and EUIPO) canceled budgets carried over from previous years.
This was an indication that budgetary needs were being overstated, particularly by the public administrations of Member States and other cooperating countries.
Accounting could be further improved 2.42.
During this year's audits, the Court also examined the agencies' accounts, which play an important role in the production of reliable accounts.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, each agency has its own accounting officer. This has resulted in a total of 37 accounting officers being responsible for 2% of the EU budget.
The most important tasks of the accounting officer are ensuring payments, accepting receipts and collecting claims, preparing and presenting the annual accounts and keeping accounts, defining and validating the accounting systems and managing the cash.
In order to increase efficiency, in 2012 the Commission's Accounting Officer asked all agencies to delegate their accounting function to him on a contractual basis.
The first agency to adopt this proposal was the EPA in 2014.
By the end of 2017, only three other agencies (GSA, BEREC Office and ACER) had joined this regulation.
The hierarchical position of an accounting officer within an agency may affect his/her independence.
In particular, the accounting officers must be independent of persons who have (subsidiary) authority to make budgetary commitments, enter into legal commitments and authorize payments.
This comment affects a total of 13 agencies (CdT, EACEA, EASA, EASME, EUA, EFSA, EIOPA, EMA, EMCDDA, ERA, EU-OSHA, Eurofound and FRA).
The appointment and annual assessment of the accounting officer would then also have to fall under the responsibility of the board of directors.
According to the Financial Regulation, the accounting officers have to confirm that the agencies' accounting systems work reliably (validation).
While the validation of the accounting systems of most agencies is up to date, the Court found that the accounting systems of seven agencies (ACER, Office of BEREC, EPO, EASME, EIT, EMA and GSA) require timely re-validation due to major changes .
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/23 Box 2.5 Status of the independence of the agencies' accounting officers and the revalidation of the accounting systems Source: ECA based on information from the agencies.
In three agencies (EASO, CPVO and REA) procurement, grant and recruitment procedures were poorly documented.
In three agencies (ACER, EIT and Frontex) shortcomings were identified in the implementation of the internal control standard related to contingency plans.
These deficiencies could pose a significant risk to business continuity in the event of a major disaster, as data could be irretrievably lost.
Agencies follow up audit findings from previous years 2.47.
Where relevant, the Court reported on the state of play of follow-up actions taken by the agencies on observations made in previous years.
Box 2.6 shows that the corrective actions related to the 170 outstanding comments at the end of 2016 were in most cases completed or ongoing.
Of the 13 outstanding observations, the corrective actions required for three observations were not under the Agency's control.
EN C 434/24 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Box 2.6 Agencies' efforts to follow up observations from previous years Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Court forwards cases of suspected fraud to OLAF 2.48.
OLAF is then responsible for investigating and following up on these cases, where necessary in cooperation with the national judicial authorities.
In 2017, as part of our audit of around 1000 transactions and 150 procurement procedures related to the agencies' declarations of assurance, we identified three cases of suspected fraud, which we reported to OLAF.
The Court provides information on Commission Internal Audit Service (IAS) reports and external evaluation reports 2.49.
The Court also referred to IAS audit reports and external evaluation reports commissioned by the Commission for information.
In 2017, 26 IAS reports were prepared, and an agency was externally evaluated in nine cases.
The Court has not reviewed the relevant audit or evaluation processes.
AUDIT RESULTS FROM OTHER AGENCIES-RELATED REPORTS PRODUCED BY THE COURT IN 2017 The Court's Rapid Case Review on the implementation of the 5% reduction in posts 2.50.
In 2017 we carried out a quick analysis (20) on how the European Union institutions and agencies implemented their commitment to reduce staff in their establishment plans by 5 % over the period 2013-2017 (for agencies 2014-2018).
The Court concluded that the agencies implemented the 5 % staff reduction, albeit with some delays.
While decentralized agencies with traditional tasks managed to reduce their staff by 8.9%, certain decentralized agencies and executive agencies with new tasks and responsibilities increased their headcount by 19.9% and 42.9% respectively.
Box 2.7 shows the resulting percentage changes in posts in the establishment plans of all institutions, bodies and agencies.
(20) Rapid Case Review on the implementation of the 5% reduction in posts; published on December 21, 2017.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/25 Box 2.7 Analysis of changes in the number of posts in the establishment plans between 2012 and 2017 (in %) Source: European Court of Auditors.
Court's special report on the SRB 2.51.
The Single Resolution Board (SRB), based in Brussels, was set up in August 2014. It is part of the political response to the financial crisis.
The task of the committee is the resolution of banks threatened with insolvency that fall within its area of responsibility.
In January 2017, the SRB covered 139 banks, including 130 banking groups (21).
Audit (22) examined whether the Board is equipped to resolve banks effectively. Particular attention was paid to the quality of resolution planning for individual banks and whether the Committee was adequately prepared to comply with resolution planning legislation and had sufficient human resources to carry out its duties.
The Court identified gaps in all of these areas. However, given that setting up the Committee as an entirely new structure was a formidable challenge, it is against this background that the weaknesses have to be seen.
The Court made a number of recommendations to the Board with a view to developing resolution plans and completing its rules and guidelines, as well as increasing staff and improving human resources management procedures.
(21) As of January 1, 2018, the number has decreased to 127 banks and 119 banking groups.
(22) Special Report No 23/2017: 'Single Resolution Board: First steps have been taken on the challenging road to Banking Union, but there is still a long way to go', published on 19 December 2017.
EN C 434/26 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Court's special annual report on contingent liabilities resulting from the Single Resolution Board carrying out its duties 2.54.
Under the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation (23), the Court is required to report on any contingent liabilities arising from the Board, the Council and the Commission carrying out their duties under that regulation.
As at 31 December 2016, the Committee's contingent liabilities resulting from ex ante contributions amounted to €842 million, increasing to €1 420 million as at 30 September 2017.
In 2016, the Committee did not initiate any bank resolutions and consequently no contingent liability related to resolution decisions was recognized for the 2016 financial year.
However, by the time the ECA's 2016 report on contingent liabilities resulting from the Board's performance of its duties was published, there were until the end of October due to the June 2017 resolution decision regarding Banco Popular Espa–ol SA In 2017, 90 legal cases were brought against the Board before the General Court of the European Union and 46 appeals were lodged with the SRB Appeals Committee.
The Commission and the Council have been informed of 26 cases brought before the Court in connection with the above resolution decision.
Other special reports from the Court relating to one or more agencies 2.55.
Apart from audit reports dedicated specifically to the agencies, throughout 2017 we produced a number of special reports and analyzes on EU policy implementation, covering a number of agencies (see Box 2.8).
(23) Article 92(4) of the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/27 Box 2.8 Other special reports and analyzes from the Court related to the agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
EN C 434/28 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLIES OF THE NETWORK OF EU AGENCIES The agencies welcome the Court's positive conclusions on the reliability of their accounts and the transactions underlying those accounts.
The network would like to express its concern that given that the Commission only provides them with a basic set of modules in Sysper, agencies are - and will be - forced to continue using separate tools for assessment, teleworking , flextime and personnel reporting.
The IT landscape in the area of human resources management will thus only become partially more uniform and even a lot less than the Commission could have decided.
The agencies are also examining the possibility of introducing a common solution for the concerned services to support recruitment processes not currently covered by Sysper.
In the area of procurement, there has definitely been a move towards harmonization of electronic tools over the last two years.
This evolution gradually started in 2015/2016 when the e-PRIOR/e-procurement tools designed by DG DIGIT in cooperation with DG BUDG were developed.
Since that time, this set of electronic modules for all phases of the procurement cycle has become a standard to which agencies adhere.
In 2018, this trend was further reinforced when new modules for electronic filing and the ABAC LCK module were introduced and made available to agencies.
Agencies are gradually phasing out the use of their own siled tools - some rapidly, some less rapidly - but no matter how rapidly this evolution occurs, the trend itself is unstoppable.
The proposed efficiency gains that could be achieved by delegating accounting tasks to the European Commission are difficult to achieve in practice.
Because the amount of work required not only depends on the balance of the budget, but it must also be taken into account that the annual accounts have to be completed at the beginning of each year within a narrow time frame.
Experience shows that closing more than one set of accounts (ie where additional funding is provided through delegation agreements) requires almost twice as many staff, although the amounts involved are smaller (and the financial operations are fewer in number).
If these activities were delegated to the Commission, each agency would still need an accounting team, as there would still be accounting-related tasks to be performed.
As long as this is the case, any savings in staff would not correspond to a full-time equivalent.
The annual fee must also be paid.
For this reason, few agencies have decided to delegate this task to the Commission.
The network would like to point out that no research or risk assessment has yet been carried out which could justify the conclusion that the accounting officer's independence would be strengthened if he reported directly to the authorizing officer and not to an authorizing officer by delegation.
Some agencies have chosen to adopt an Accounting Officers Charter which, among other things, includes arrangements for reporting to the governing body, if required.
C 434/29 Page 31 33 38 46 51 56 64 79 87 90 98 103 109 112 116 128 136 149 153 165 de agencies, which are financed under the MFR-Part Rubrik 1a €ABILITY FOR GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT......................................... .......................
European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) ................................
European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE) .....................................
European agency for the operational management of large-scale IT systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-LISA) ................................ .....................
EN C 434/30 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Page 3.29.
169 3.30.
184 3.31.
188 3.32.
Euratom Supply Agency................................................ .........
191 3.33.
191 3.34.
195 3.35.
Single Resolution Board (SRB) .....................................................
205 EXECUTIVE AGENCIES OF THE COMMISSION ........................................ ........
209 3.37.
209 3.38.
213 3.39.
217 3.40.
221 3.41.
225 3.42.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/31 3.1.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the IFAC International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and Codes of Ethics and the INTOSAI International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI).
Our responsibilities under these standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities section of our report.
We are independent in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants' Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) and the ethical requirements relevant to our audit, and we have maintained our other ethical responsibilities consistent with those requirements and the IESBA code met.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Responsibilities of management and those responsible for monitoring 3.1.2.
In accordance with Articles 310 to 325 TFEU and the Agencies' Financial Regulations, management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the accounts on the basis of internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector and the legal and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts .
This includes designing, establishing and maintaining internal control structures as required for the preparation and presentation of financial statements that are free from material - intentional or unintentional - misstatements.
The management of the agencies bears the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the transactions on which their annual accounts are based.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the agencies' ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless: management either intends to liquidate the facility or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and underlying transactions 3.1.5.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the agencies' accounts are free from material misstatement and the transactions underlying them are legal and regular, and to the European Parliament and the Council or other relevant discharge authorities on the basis of our to provide audit statements on the reliability of the agencies' accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
Misstatements and errors may be intentional or unintentional and are considered material if, individually or collectively, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
3.1.6.
With regard to revenue, we review the grants that the agencies have received from the Commission or Cooperating States and assess their procedures for collecting fees and other revenue where relevant.
3.1.7.
For spending, we examine payment transactions after spending is made, recorded, and accepted.
Prepayments will be checked after the beneficiary has proven their proper use and the agency has accepted the proof by clearing the prepayment Ń in the same year or later Ń.
3.1.8.
As part of an audit in accordance with the ISAs and ISSAIs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain a critical attitude throughout the audit.
In addition, we Ń identify and assess the risks of material Ń intentional or unintentional Ń misstatements in the financial statements and material Ń intentional or unintentional Ń violations of the legal framework of the European Union in the underlying transactions, design and perform audit procedures responsive to these risks and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
The risk that a material misstatement or violation of the law resulting from fraud will not be detected is higher than that resulting from error, since fraud involves collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations or the overriding of internal controls can
C 434/32 Ń Ń Ń Ń Ń Ń Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 we gain an understanding of the internal control system relevant to the audit in order to plan audit procedures that are appropriate in the given circumstances, but not with the aim of to issue an audit opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system; Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by management and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; Conclude on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on an agency's ability to continue as a going concern .
If we conclude that there is a material uncertainty, we are required to comment in our auditor's report on the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if the disclosures are inappropriate, to modify our opinion.
We base our conclusions on the audit evidence obtained to the date of our auditor's report.
We are responsible for directing, supervising and administering the exam.
EN 3.1.9.
We communicate with management, among other things, about the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in the internal control system that we identify during our audit.
3.1.10.
From the matters that we communicated with the agencies, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditor's report, unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our auditor's report, because it could reasonably be expected that the negative consequences of such a communication would outweigh the benefits to the public interest.
(24) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012.
AGENCY FOR THE COOPERATION OF ENERGY REGULATORY AUTHORITIES (ACER) INTRODUCTION 3.2.1.
The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăACERŇ), based in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (25).
As part of the REMIT regulation (26), the agency and the national regulatory authorities were given additional tasks with regard to the monitoring of the European energy wholesale market.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (27).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 13 Total staff at 31 December (1) 91 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 16 103 OPINION 3.2.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts(28) and reports on the implementation of the budget (29) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
L 211 of 14.8.2009, p. 1.
(26) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(27) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.acer.europa.eu.
(28) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(29) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/34 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.2.4.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.2.6.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.2.8. In the course of this year's audit of all EU agencies, the Court analyzed the accounting, including the aspect of timely (re)validation of the accounting systems.
In October 2017, the Agency delegated its accounting function to the Accounting Officer of the Commission.
Despite this drastic change, the accounting system was last validated in 2011.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.2.9.
In 2011, the Agency received an additional task related to the Monitoring of the Wholesale Energy Market (REMIT).
In 2017, all components provided for by the REMIT monitoring framework were implemented for the first time.
However, the disaster recovery site originally set up in Maribor, Slovenia was relocated to the Agency's main data center in Ljubljana in April 2017.
As a result, the backup data is now stored in the same location as the original data.
As a result, there is a considerable risk for the maintenance of business operations in the event of major disasters, since data could be irretrievably lost. COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.2.10. On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom (UK) informed the European Council of its decision to leave the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, the Agency did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the possible impact of Brexit on its organisation, operations and accounts.
3.2.11.
The agency publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies in one place.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/35 3.2.12.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common solution for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (30) (31). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
By the end of 2017, the agency had not implemented any of these tools.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.2.13.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report on human resources management at the Agency(32). The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement.
FOLLOW-UP OF REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.2.14. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(30) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(31) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(32) The Court has not audited the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/36 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations Court's observations According to the Headquarters Agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian Government, a European School is to be established in Slovenia, more than four years after the completion of the However, the agreement has still not happened.
In its May 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the urgent need to clarify roles and responsibilities and to analyze the contracting authority's workload in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures.
The IAS also concluded that there is a need for significant improvement in procurement planning and monitoring. The Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
The Agency carried over 4.9 million euros or 86% of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2015: 1.4 million euros or 59%).
As in previous years, these transfers of funds were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market and amounted to EUR 4.7 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 1.1 million).
For Title II (Administrative Expenditure), the Agency carried over 1 million euros or 38% of the committed appropriations to the following financial year (2015: 0.8 million euros or 35%).
The higher transmission rate is directly linked to the fact that procurement procedures and contracts are largely completed or signed towards the end of the year, which leads to a deferral of deliveries and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of a total of 299 contracts were signed in November and December (EUR 5,976,122.47 or 40% of the total value of contracts concluded in 2016).
The Agency may consider introducing differentiated budget appropriations to better reflect the multiannual nature of activities and unavoidable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments. Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/37 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.2.8.
The Agency agrees with the finding and clarifies that the Agency records all financial transactions in the financial system provided by the European Commission, which is updated, maintained and validated by the Commission.
With the outsourcing of the accounting services to the Commission from October 2017, the Agency will accept the validation of the accounting system to be provided by the Commission in 2018.
Since the ARIS primary site and disaster management site migrated to ACER's internal data center in early April 2016 and were integrated into a single site in June 2017 to optimize and boost performance and manage increasing space requirements, maintaining the operation can no longer be guaranteed.
However, it should be noted that the current situation, in which business continuity cannot be guaranteed, has been imposed on the Agency by the significant reduction in its budget over the past two years.
The Agency has repeatedly warned the Commission and the budgetary authorities about the serious consequences of the budgetary restrictions, but with no result in terms of additional funds.
The agency will continue to explore the possibility of restoring a disaster management site for ARIS, but without having the resources to do so in 2018.
Restoration of the disaster management site would require additional funding to be provided to the agency.
Given that the risks associated with BREXIT were considered to be low and limited, management conducted only an informal analysis of Brexit in 2017.
In early 2018, the agency published a comprehensive analysis of the impact of Brexit on governance, operations and finance, highlighting the impact and the actions needed.
In 2014, the Agency's Management Board adopted Resolution AB No. 15/2014 on the Agency's language regime.
Notwithstanding this, the Agency still has to translate the vacancy notices published on the EPSO website into all official EU languages.
Due to the very limited financial resources, which have been repeatedly pointed out to the budgetary authority, the Agency cannot afford the translation costs for each individual vacancy notice in all official EU languages for the publication of this notice on the EPSO website.
In 2017, four out of nine vacancy notices, including two public calls, were still published on the EPSO website and therefore translated into all official EU languages.
The other five advertisements for vacancies in operational departments were only published on the agency's website, since these were mainly of interest to applicants who were already working in the area and who usually also use the agency's activities on our website pursue.
This approach represents a pragmatic balance between outreach to potential applicants and efficient use of limited resources.
3.2.12.
In 2018 the Agency will start using e-procurement, which will be expanded in 2019 to include e-invoicing and e-submission of bids.
3.2.13.
Following the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) report on human resource management, the Agency has agreed an action plan with the IAS and is implementing the proposed improvements.
EN C 434/38 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.
The Office of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (hereinafter ădas Office), located in Riga, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (33).
The table contains the most important figures for the office (34).
Table Main Office figures 2017 Budget (million euros) (1) 4 Total staff at 31 December (2) 27 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the office. COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 4 27 OPINION 3.3.3.
We have obtained a) the Office's financial statements, comprising the annual accounts(35) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (36) for the financial year ended December 31, 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these financial statements under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.3.4. In our opinion, the Office's financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the position of the Office as of December 31, 2017, its results of operations and cash flows and changes in net assets for the year then ended then December 31, 2017 overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 337 of 18.12.2009, p. 1.
(34) More information on the competences and activities of the Office is available on its website www.berec.europa.eu.
(35) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(36) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.3.6.
Note 3.3.7.
The Office commissioned the Translation Center for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT) in December 2016 to translate four calls for expressions of interest with a view to drawing up reserve lists, even though all the posts approved by the Budgetary Authority in the Office's establishment plan were filled.
The payment made on this contract in March 2017 was 106 432.50 euros (or 2.5% of the 2017 budget).
3.3.8.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.3.9.
In the course of this year's audit of all EU agencies, the Court analyzed the accounting, including the aspect of timely (re)validation of the accounting systems.
The Office delegated its accounting function to the Accounting Officer of the Commission in 2016.
In 2017, it introduced a new paperless system.
Although these events resulted in significant changes to the Office's procedures and accounting system, the system has not been re-validated since 2013.
NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.3.10.
The Office signed in December 2017 legal commitments and budgetary commitments of 20 000 euros for a training planned for the end of March 2018.
The financing of 2018 activities from the 2017 budget is contrary to the budget principle of annuality.
The office launched a call for tenders in August 2015 for a cascading multiple service framework agreement for an estimated market volume of 3 million euros for the organization and planning of events such as meetings, workshops, conferences, etc.
In addition, only the bidder's administration fees were covered by the competitive procedure, but not the potential event costs.
The award procedure therefore did not ensure appropriate price competition, which means that the most economically advantageous offer may not have been accepted.
3.3.12.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (37) (38). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the organs of the EU, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
(37) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(38) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
EN C 434/40 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.13.
On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom (UK) informed the European Council of its decision to leave the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, the Office did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the possible impact of Brexit on its organisation, operations and accounts.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.3.14. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/41 ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations The appropriations in the 2014 budget for contributions from national regulators of EFTA(1) countries that have observer status in BEREC have been increased in the absence of agreements with them countries not paid.
In March 2016, the Office launched a procurement process with the aim of signing a framework contract for the children of its staff with the two Riga-based international schools.
The framework agreement signed in July 2016, worth 400,000 euros, is therefore based on contradictory concepts, creating legal uncertainty for the office and the schools.
In addition, a framework agreement was unnecessary in this specific case.
As part of a reclassification, one staff member was assigned directly to step 2 instead of step 1 of a higher grade. This violates the EU Staff Regulations.
In March 2016, the office concluded a contract worth 60,000 euros for the provision of professional support and consulting services in the field of human resources.
In 2016, the average tenure of office staff was 2.58 years. Staff turnover was high at 25%.
A possible reason is the weighting applied to salary costs for the host country (73%).
Periodic external performance evaluations are not required by the Office's founding regulation.
The Office, together with the Commission, should consider commissioning such an evaluation at least every five years, as do most other agencies.
Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 European Free Trade Association. Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) Pending (not under Office control) N/A N/A Completed Pending (not under Office control) (1) DE
EN C 434/42 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE OFFICE 3.3.7. Considering the high turnover of staff, which management saw as a risk factor for the implementation of its work programme, the management committee of BEREC's office requested that reserve lists be drawn up for at least 75% (39) of the job profiles in the agency.
In order to comply with the obligation to publish calls for expressions of interest (40) on the EPSO website (41), BEREC's office had to translate the documents into all official EU languages.
With reserve lists prepared in advance, the Agency is able to meet the Management Committee's target of keeping the vacancy rate below 15% and to send out vacancies within one month of identifying a need for recruitment.
In order to avoid the high cost of mandatory translations in the future, BEREC's office intends to develop standard templates for calls and short job-specific sections for translation.
3.3.9.
In 2016, the BEREC Office delegated its accounts to the European Commission.
Therefore, the Accounting Officer of the European Commission (within DG Budget) provides all the services required under Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to the Agencies, including the validation of local systems.
The validation approach is currently in progress and was announced by the Accounting Officer of the European Commission in an official memo with reference number Ares(2018)3149885 dated 14 June 2018.
The services of the Accounting Officer of the European Commission will complete the process and report on the results in the fourth quarter of 2018.
3.3.10.
The BEREC office had already started preparing for the training in November 2017, contacted potential trainers and checked the availability of the venues.
It was therefore necessary to sign the contract with the organizer to ensure the availability of both the trainers and interviewers and the venue for the scheduled dates of the training.
The contract was signed in December 2017, so a corresponding financial regulation commitment was made before the contract was signed.
Experience shows that it is extremely difficult to organize a training course in the first quarter of a year without carrying over funds from the previous year; the BEREC office will therefore consider later dates for future training courses.
3.3.11.
The decision for a framework agreement was made in 2015.
Fixed salary considered compatible with the Financial Regulation as other EU bodies have and are still making several such contracts (e.g. for travel agency or banking services).
Due to the specific nature of BEREC's activities, a large part of the expenditure on BEREC events borne by the BEREC office relates to the remuneration of experts, mostly from public bodies located in the EU Member States (e.g. national regulatory authorities Ń NRAs ).
Therefore, it should be noted that the contractor has no control over this type of expenditure.
Following the comments and the valuable exchange of views with the Court, when reopening the procurement procedure, BEREC's office will also consider other types of framework contracts that were not foreseen under the 2015 legal framework.
The Office of BEREC takes note of the Court's observations and informs the Court that it intends to introduce these modules by the end of 2018, taking into account the availability of corresponding Agency budgets.
3.3.13.
An assessment of the impact on the Agency's workload could only be made after the end of EU-UK relations.
Considering that the allocations and staffing of the BEREC Office have not changed to cope with the additional expenditure and workload of Croatia's accession to the EU, and given the small budget of the BEREC Office, Brexit should not involve any change to be expected.
(39) See page 9 of document MC (16) 136, Annual and Multiannual Programming of the BEREC Office Activities 2017-2019 of 9.12.2016; https://berec.europa.eu/eng/ document_register/subject_matter/berec_office/office_annual_work_programmes/6594-annual-and-multiannual-programming-of-the-berec-office-activities-2017-2019 (40) In the Opinion as ăJob advertisementsŇ.
(41) Article 11 of Decision MC/2015/3: Decision of the Administrative Committee of the Office of BEREC laying down general implementing provisions on the procedure for the recruitment and deployment of temporary staff in accordance with Article 2(f) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union Union.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/43 3.4.
EUROPEAN CENTER FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING (CEDEFOP) INTRODUCTION 3.4.1.
The European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (hereinafter ăthe CentreŇ, also ăCedefopŇ), based in Thessaloniki, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (42).
The main task of the center is the promotion and further development of vocational training at Union level.
3.4.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the center (43).
Table Main figures for the Center 2017 Budget (million euros) (1) 18 Total staff at 31 December (2) 117 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Centre. COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 18 122 OPINION 3.4.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Center comprising the annual accounts (44) and reports on the implementation of the budget (45) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.4.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Center for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Center as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 39 of 13.2.1975, p. 1.
(43) More information on the competences and activities of the Center is available on its website www.cedefop.europa.eu.
(44) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(45) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/44 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts 3.4.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.4.6.
3.4.7.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion. COMMENTS ON THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF OPERATIONS 3.4.8.
Management of two senior recruitment procedures showed weaknesses and the procedures are considered to be improper.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.4.9. The Center publishes vacancies on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common solution for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (46) (47). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
As of the end of 2017, the Center had not implemented any of these tools.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.4.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) issued an audit report on the Centre's web-based services in November 2017 (48).
(46) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(47) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(48) The Court has not verified this audit work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/45 RESPONSE OF THE CENTER COMMENT ON THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF THE TRANSACTIONS 3.4.8.
We note the Court's comment on the irregularities in the two recruitment procedures.
Cedefop is currently carrying out an in-depth assessment of the two procedures and is considering taking remedial action in both of them and in recruitment procedures in general to address the weaknesses identified by the Court.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.4.9.
Cedefop uses the EPSO platform in some cases.
Cedefop publishes its vacancy notices on its own website and on the inter-agency online platform, accessible to all EU citizens, and uses various channels to advertise vacancies, including ReferNet, SkillsNet, Management Board and other avenues such as networks of economists etc. Cedefop publishes the vacancies for the position of Director and Deputy Director at EPSO and uses its social media channels for managerial positions.
Cedefop considers that the additional costs involved in translating the vacancy notices into all official EU languages for the EPSO portal are disproportionate to the expected benefit.
Cedefop has taken first steps to join the e-tendering and e-submission (modules of the ăe-PriorŇ platform) in autumn 2018; this means that the deadline set in Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement for all contracting authorities to use the electronic exchange of information procedure with economic operators is met (http://ec.europa.eu/growth/single-market/public- procurement/e-procurement_en).
In this regard, Cedefop works together with the Commission's Directorate-General DIGIT, which is responsible for involving the contracting authorities.
The first general tender using the e-tendering and e-submission modules will be launched in October 2018.
Then all general procedures are handled using the electronic tools.
The timing of starting e-invoicing depends on whether Cedefop's management decides to either introduce accruals-based accounting (using e-invoicing as a module) or to continue using the internal Fibus platform (using a link to the platform for electronic invoicing must be set up).
EN C 434/46 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.
EUROPEAN AVIATION SAFETY AGENCY (EASA) INTRODUCTION 3.5.1.
The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEASAŇ), based in Cologne, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council(49), which was amended by Regulation (EC) No 216 /2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (50).
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (51).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 192 Total staff at 31 December (1) 771 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts(52) and reports on the implementation of the budget (53) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.5.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 240 of 7.9.2002, p. 1.
L 79 of 19.3.2008, p. 1.
(51) More information on the Agency's responsibilities and activities is available on its website www.easa.europa.eu.
(52) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(53) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/47 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts 3.5.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.5.6.
3.5.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.5.8.
The Court considers it necessary to strengthen the independence of the Accounting Officer by reporting directly to the Director (administrative matters) and the Management Board (functional matters) of the Agency. COMMENTS ON THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF OPERATIONS 3.5.9.
Framework agreements are made with companies to set out the terms and conditions that apply to specific purchases (single orders) during the term of the agreement.
The agency used a framework agreement with three contractors in the cascade system to award IT services worth up to EUR 22 million.
In this procedure, following a competitive procedure, the contractors are ranked (the cascade), which must be observed for all individual orders.
However, the terms of the framework agreement were not specific enough to allow for fair competition and to justify prioritizing the contractors for all future individual contracts.
According to the rules of application of the Financial Regulation(54), the specific contracts must in these circumstances be awarded through a competitive procedure between the selected contractors.
3.5.10.
According to the Agency's financial rules (55), procurements must be approved by the Governing Board, either in the Agency's annual work program or through an ad hoc financing decision.
An IT framework agreement for a maximum amount of 15 million euros was tendered and signed, although the funding decision only covered an amount of 5 million euros.
In 2014, the Commission, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including EASA), concluded a framework agreement with a contractor for the purchase of IT hardware and software, and for maintenance and support services (IT services) away.
The framework contractor acts as an intermediary between the Agency and companies that can provide the IT services.
Although most of these IT services and the associated prices were specified in the framework agreement concluded as a result of the competitive award procedure, this also allows the procurement of IT services that are not specifically mentioned.
In the case of an audited payment of around EUR 300,000, the agency had acquired IT services from the contractor without a competitive process.
In 2017, payments totaling EUR 2 million were made to the framework agreement contractor.
3.5.12.
(54) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 (OJ
(55) EASA Financial Regulations, Article 68(2) and (3).
EN C 434/48 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.13.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (56) (57). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017 the Agency had introduced e-tendering and e-submission for certain procedures, but not e-invoicing.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.5.14.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report on EASA's preparation of the European Aviation Safety Plan (58).
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement. FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.5.15.
(56) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(57) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(58) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/49 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations Although the activities financed by industry resulted in a deficit of 7,6 million euro in 2016, the budgetary outcomes differ from year to year year(1) and the Agency has accumulated a surplus of 52 million euros from this type of activity.
The Agency's founding regulation states that the fees to be paid by industry should be reasonable to cover the Agency's costs of related certification activities.
During the period 2014-2016, for its move to a new building, the Agency used 9.4 million euros (2016: 4.4 million euros) of its cumulative surplus to finance the 12.4 million euros in costs for the renovation (and the move) incurred.
For its part, the Commission contributed €3 million from the EU budget for this purpose.
Year 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN C 434/50 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.5.8.
The Agency has discussed this issue in the framework of the Network of Agencies forum in order to examine possibilities and to reach a common position.
The Agency will implement the agreed common approach and in any case will clearly separate the role of Accounting Officer from operational functions and involve the Management Board in the renewal and evaluation cycle.
3.5.9.
In preparation for this procedure, the Agency carried out a market analysis and concluded that the main IT service providers support all the necessary services under this procedure.
As a result, the Agency concluded that a multiple framework agreement with reopening of competition would have resulted in a high administrative burden which was considered disproportionate to the benefit that could result.
As in the past for high value tenders and following the Court's observation, the Agency will in future give more consideration to reopening competitions to encourage competition.
The aim of this framework agreement is to support the proof of concept and initial phase of a new project (Data4Safety) whose funding and structure have been developing over months with a number of parties.
The value of the contract was 15 million euros, but the financial commitments ultimately amount to a maximum of 4 million euros.
This means that there is no longer any possibility of making payments in excess of this amount.
3.5.11.
The Agency considers that this approach, using the existing interinstitutional framework agreement, is in line with the principle of sound financial management.
In the present case, a fee of EUR 24,816.60 was considered reasonable in relation to the volume of the purchase and the effort involved.
This facility was foreseen in the Framework Agreement and the Agency used it as agreed.
In 2015 the Agency's Management Board decided (Resolution No. 08-2015) that the working language at EASA in relation to the recruitment and selection procedures is English.
This decision has been communicated to the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which does not accept the decision as an exception to its rules for the publication of vacancy notices in all languages, and the decision does not meet the Agency's needs.
The Agencies Network has recently launched an online platform to allow agencies to publish their vacancies more widely.
EASA regularly publishes external job advertisements on this new platform.
3.5.13.
As the Court has noted, the tool for electronic submission of procurement procedures was introduced last year.
For e-invoicing, business specifications were finalized in 2017 and an IT solution is being sought within the Agency's resources and priorities.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/51 3.6.
EUROPEAN BANKING AUTHORITY (EBA) INTRODUCTION 3.6.1.
The European Banking Authority (hereinafter ăthe Authority, also ăEBAŇ), based in London, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (59).
3.6.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the authority (60).
Table Main figures of the Authority 2017 Budget (million euro) 38 Total staff at 31 December (1) 190 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Authority.
We have a) the annual accounts of the authority consisting of the annual accounts (61) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (62) for the financial year ending on December 31, 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these annual accounts are based under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.6.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Authority for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Authority as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year ended then that date overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 331 of 15.12.2010, p. 12.
(60) More information on the competences and activities of the Authority is available on its website www.eba.europa.eu.
(61) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(62) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/52 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.6.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.6.6.
Emphasis on a fact 3.6.7. Without questioning our audit opinion, the Court notes that on 29 March 2017 the United Kingdom notified the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
An agreement on the details of the withdrawal is currently being negotiated.
The London based Authority has prepared its financial statements and accompanying notes on the basis of information available at the time of signature (3 May 2018).
3.6.8.
On 20 November 2017, the General Affairs Council of the European Union agreed to move the Authority's seat to Paris, France.
The move is scheduled for early 2019 and the Authority has recognized in its accounts a provision of €6.7m for related costs and €11.2m for contractual payments due in future for the London office can afford.
3.6.9.
3.6.10.
In four of the five audited open tender procedures, only one bidder met the award criteria for quality, all other bidders were excluded.
This suggests that the authority overemphasizes the quality criteria.
With such processes it is not possible to determine the most economical solutions, in which there should be a good balance between quality and price.
3.6.12.
The Authority publishes vacancies on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies in one place.
3.6.13.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common solution for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (63) (64). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.6.14.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report on supervisory convergence Ń colleges and training (65). The Authority prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement.
(63) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(64) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(65) The Court has not verified this audit work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/53 3.6.15.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (66) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (67).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.6.16. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(66) EBA, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority.
(67) The Court has not verified this evaluation work.
C 434/54 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations To cover higher school fees, the Authority grants an education allowance to staff whose children attend primary or secondary school, in addition to the education allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations.
In 2012, the child-raising contributions totaled around 76,000 euros.
Year 2012 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) Completed
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/55 REPLY OF THE AUTHORITY 3.6.11.
When conducting procurement procedures, the EBA strives to use all the tools at its disposal to maximize competition.
In four out of five procedures the weighting of quality and price was 60/40, in the other 50/50. In our view, the low participation in the financial assessment cited by the Court is due to factors over which the EBA has no control; these include, among other things, the low level of interest in the tender (due to the exchange rate risk, the volume of the contract, the high costs of participating in the tender and the small profit margins) and the poor quality of the technical offers.
The EBA publishes its vacancy notices in a variety of media: EBA website, Twitter and LinkedIn, EU Training, EuroBrussels and EurActiv, ESCB-HRC network, Financial Times and similar (for higher profile vacancies).
In February 2018, the EBA published ten vacancies on the EPSO website in all official EU languages.
The EBA believes that by using the above channels to publish vacancies, the EBA maintains full transparency and reaches the target audience among EU citizens.
The EBA will introduce the electronic submission of bids (e-Submission) system in 2019 and will conduct training courses and test the updates of the introduced system in the first half of the year.
EN C 434/56 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.
EUROPEAN CHEMICALS AGENCY (ECHA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1.
The European Chemicals Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăECHAŇ), based in Helsinki, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (68).
Its main task is to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment and to ensure the free movement of substances in the internal market, while enhancing competitiveness and innovation.
The agency also promotes the development of alternative assessment methods for hazards associated with substances.
3.7.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (69).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 112 Total staff at 31 December (2) 563 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. (2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 110 578 OPINION 3.7.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts(70) and reports on the implementation of the budget (71) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.7.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 396 of 30.12.2006, p. 1.
(69) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.echa.europa.eu.
(70) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(71) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/57 Emphasis of matter 3.7.5.
Without calling into question the opinion expressed in paragraph 3.7.4, the Court would like to underline that the Agency is partly self-financed and that it receives a fee from any company applying for the registration of chemicals, as foreseen by the REACH Regulation (72).
The applicable fees depend on the size of the companies (micro, small, medium and large) and the volume of chemicals registered (different volume thresholds).
3.7.6.
As foreseen in the Implementing Regulation(73), the Agency calculates and invoices the fees on the basis of information provided by the companies at the time of application.
Since the first registrations in 2009, around 30% of companies have stated that they are micro, small or medium-sized enterprises.
The Agency has made significant efforts to put in place a system for ex-post verification to verify the company size information provided by these applicants.
As a result, the Agency was able to determine that, based on the reviews completed so far, around 55% of the above companies that self-reported to be micro, small or medium-sized enterprises (16% of all companies) had misrepresented their size, resulting in lower fees.
To remedy this, the Agency has charged around 16.4 million euros in correction fees as a result of ex-post verifications over the years.
However, verifications are significantly backlogged and the remaining amount of necessary fee corrections was not known at the end of 2017 (74).
This finding demonstrates the limitations of a system that relies too heavily on self-reporting by applicants.
The REACH regulation stipulates that checking the quantities declared by companies is the task of the member state authorities responsible for enforcement.
The Agency is therefore not involved in the verification of this second element for the fee calculation.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.7.8.
In our opinion, the payments underlying the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 are legal and regular in all material respects.
3.7.9.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.7.10.
The Agency's ex-post reviews showed that more than half of the companies that registered chemicals and claimed to be micro, small or medium-sized enterprises had false information about their size (see emphasis paragraph of a fact in Section 3.7.5).
This can be partly explained by the Commission's complex rules on company sizing (75) and partly by the financial incentive to under-declare, as registration fees are far higher for larger companies.
Because initial registration fees are based on reported company size, misrepresentations can have a significant negative impact on the Agency's revenue if not detected.
While the Agency verifies the reported size for smaller companies as part of ex-post reviews, the reviews are significantly backlogged and will only be completed by 2012 (for the years with the largest registered volumes of chemicals).
(72) Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006.
(73) Article 13 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 340/2008 on the fees and charges payable to the European Chemicals Agency in accordance with Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on registration, evaluation , Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (OJ
(74) At the end of 2017, the ex post verifications for the registrations up to 2012 were completed but are still ongoing for the following years.
(75) Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36).
EN C 434/58 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.11.
If errors are found, the Agency will charge the difference between the fee originally paid and the fee ultimately due, plus an administration fee.
On December 31, 2017, the amount to be recovered was EUR 4.7 million, of which EUR 3.2 million related to overdue management fees.
However, the agency appears to be encountering difficulties in collecting the administrative fees.
The Agency recorded a provision for bad debts of 2.8 million euros in its 2017 accounts (ie 600,000 euros more than at the end of 2016).
3.7.12.
The verification of the quantities declared by the companies is the task of the member state authorities entrusted with enforcement; the Agency has no enforcement powers (see the emphasis of matter paragraph in paragraph 3.7.5).
Actions taken by Member State enforcement authorities are coordinated by the Enforcement Information Exchange Forum.
On 6 December 2017, the Forum adopted new Strategies and minimum criteria for enforcement of Chemical Regulations, providing a framework for developing national enforcement strategies.
The Agency's ability to fulfill its mission depends on the effectiveness of the practical implementation of this framework by the national authorities.
In its 2017 general report, the agency states that around two-thirds of companies did not update registered information on the quantities of chemicals they handle.
This affects the effective implementation of the REACH regulation and also the accuracy of the fee calculation.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.7.13. The agency publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
OTHER REMARKS 3.7.14.
The agency's revenue from fees is linked to the registration deadlines for chemicals in the EU set in the REACH regulation (2010, 2013 and 2018).
As a result, the agency has no recurring fees and struggles with a mismatch between relatively stable spending and more volatile, less predictable revenues, making budgeting difficult.
The Agency is being helped in dealing with this situation by a grant it has received from the Commission.
With the third and final registration deadline for chemicals under REACH in 2018, revenue from fees and charges is expected to decrease from 2019 and the Agency to rely more on grants from the EU to fund its operations. household will be dependent.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.7.15. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/59 Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Ongoing (1) Ongoing Ongoing Pending ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations Expenditure on procedures related to a new specific activity of the Agency, the implementation of the Biocidal Products Regulation, was in principle covered by fees for the assessment of applications for registration of these products.
However, the fees collected in 2014 only covered 17% of this expenditure, so the rest was actually financed by contributions to the Agency's budget made by the Union (6.3 million euros) and EFTA countries (0.2 million euros). At 10.1 million euros or 39% (2015: 7.3 million euros or 32%), the rate of commitments carried over to the following financial year for Title III (operational expenditure Ń REACH) remained high. In the case of Title IV (operational expenditure → biocides), it was even higher at 1.3 million euros or 68% (2015: 1.5 million euros or 74%).
Such a high transmission rate is contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality. The Agency may consider making more use of differentiated budgetary appropriations to better reflect the multiannual nature of activities and unavoidable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
According to the Biocidal Products Regulation, ECHA contributes to the functioning of the market for biocides and biocidal products.
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the structure and operational implementation of ECHA's internal control system in relation to the Agency's processes and activities under the Biocidal Products Regulation is effective and efficient.
Although no serious deficiencies were identified, the IAS still sees room for improvement.
Unlike most other agencies, ECHA's founding regulation does not explicitly require periodic external evaluations of its activities, which are essential for the performance evaluation.
(1) In 2017, in the field of biocides, the Agency received fees and charges of 8.1 million euros (2016: 7.6 million euros), covering 65% of the expenditure on biocides (2015: 62% and 2016: 88%).
The remainder was financed by contributions to the Agency's budget from the Union (6.3 million euros) and EFTA countries (0.2 million euros).
EN C 434/60 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.7.10.
The relevant legislation (REACH Fees Regulation (EC) 340/2008) does not provide that the Agency should carry out an ex-post verification of the size of all SME registrants.
The Agency's Management Board approved an approach whereby SME registrants with the greatest financial impact (ie with the most registrations within the largest tonnage band) are screened as a matter of priority.
The Agency is currently verifying the company size of SME registrants who submitted their dossiers up to 2015. In 2017, the Agency also turned its attention to UK SME registrants to verify their company size ahead of the UK's withdrawal from the European Union.
In the future, the agency will increasingly conduct reviews of the size of SMEs on the basis of the cost-benefit principle.
3.7.11.
The REACH Fees Regulation (EC) No. 340/2008 does not provide the agency with any instruments that would be necessary to enforce the collection of overdue administrative fees.
The agency proactively reminds debtors of their payment obligations. When this is unsuccessful, she hires local law firms to claim the outstanding fees and charges directly in the Member States.
The law firms have so far contacted 74% of the companies that have overdue administrative fees to pay. The outcome of this initiative will then be subjected to a cost-benefit analysis to determine next steps.
The member states bear the main responsibility for the enforcement of the REACH and the CLP regulation, in particular the obligation to register chemical substances.
The Agency's ability to fulfill its mission and to generate reasonable revenue from fees depends on the effectiveness of the practical implementation of enforcement strategies by national authorities.
Discussions are being held with the Commission to address this issue.
3.7.13.
The Agency takes note of the preliminary remark. This is a horizontal issue affecting a number of agencies.
The Agency publishes vacancies similarly to other agencies on its own website, on social media and on the EU Agencies Network (EUAN) website (https://euagencies.eu/).
In order to increase transparency and publicity and to enable citizens to consult vacancies, the Agency recommends that the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) in turn refer to the EUAN website.
3.7.14.
The preliminary remark is correct.
The agency is funded from a combination of revenue from fees and charges and a compensatory grant from the European Union.
The agency has submitted a number of alternative funding proposals to the Commission, including the introduction of recurring fees, like some other EU agencies.
The agency points out that according to its communication on the review of the REACH regulation of 5 March 2018 (COM(2018) 116 final), the Commission will examine all possible options to ensure sustainable funding of the agency in the future.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/61 3.8.
EUROPEAN INSURANCE AND OCCUPATIONAL PENSION SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY (EIOPA) INTRODUCTION 3.8.1.
The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (hereinafter ădie BešrdeŇ, also ăEIOPAŇ), based in Frankfurt, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (76).
The authority's task is to contribute to the establishment of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices, to contribute to the coherent application of legally binding Union acts, to stimulate and facilitate the delegation of tasks and responsibilities among competent authorities, to monitor market developments in its jurisdiction to monitor and evaluate and to promote the protection of policyholders, pension members and beneficiaries.
3.8.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the authority (77).
Table Main figures of the Authority 2017 Budget (million euro) 24 Total staff at 31 December (1) 151 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Authority.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 21 139 OPINION 3.8.3.
We have a) the annual accounts of the authority consisting of the annual accounts (78) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (79) for the financial year ending on December 31, 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these annual accounts are based under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.8.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Authority for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Authority as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year ended then that date overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 331 of 15.12.2010, p. 48.
(77) More information on the competences and activities of the Authority is available on its website www.eiopa.europa.eu.
(78) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(79) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/62 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.8.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.8.6.
Note 3.8.7. Without questioning our audit opinion, the Court notes that on 29 March 2017 the United Kingdom notified the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
EIOPA's budget is funded 40% from European Union funds and 60% from direct contributions from EU Member States.
It is possible that the agency's revenues will decrease in the future as a result of the UK's decision to leave the EU.
3.8.8.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.8.9.
At the agency, the head of the Corporate Support department is the superior of the accounting officer.
The Authority publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies in one place. RESULTS OF EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS 3.8.11.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (80) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (81).
(80) EIOPA, European Banking Authority and European Securities and Markets Authority.
(81) The Court has not verified this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/63 AUTHORITY'S REPLIES 3.8.9.
Until April 2018, the Accountant's reports were addressed to the Head of Corporate Support and the Board of Directors.
In view of the Management Board's final assessment of the annual performance of the accounting officer, no conflict with the hierarchical and functional independence of the accounting officer was assumed in this arrangement.
A change was made in May 2018 to strengthen the position of Accounting Officer with the following new reporting lines: hierarchical reporting to the Executive Director and functional reporting to the Governing Board.
3.8.10.
In order to be able to publish vacancy notices on the EPSO website, they must be translated into all 24 official EU languages.
As this has a significant impact on the budget, EIOPA decided to make more use of other media where most EU agencies advertise their vacancies.
EIOPA also uses the Inter-Agency Job Advertisement Board, a common platform for job advertisements developed by the network of agencies, to which all citizens have access.
In addition, EIOPA leads a joint procurement process to publicize recruitment procedures, which provides better visibility and reaches a wider audience in the EU.
EN C 434/64 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.
EUROPEAN INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE (EIT) INTRODUCTION 3.9.1.
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (hereinafter ădas InstitutŇ, also ăEITŇ), based in Budapest, was established by Regulation (EC) No 294/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (82).
The aim of the institute is to contribute to sustainable economic growth in Europe and to increasing competitiveness by strengthening the innovative capacity of the Member States and the European Union.
The Institute provides grants to a growing number of Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs), which bring together higher education, research and business to foster innovation and entrepreneurship.
The KICs coordinate the activities of hundreds of partners.
3.9.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the institute (83).
Table Main figures of the Institute 2017 Budget (million euros) (1) 303 Actual total headcount at 31 December (2) 60 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. (2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the institute. COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 283 59 OPINION 3.9.3.
We have a) the annual accounts of the Institute, consisting of the annual accounts(84) and reports on the implementation of the budget (85) for the financial year ended December 31, 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these annual accounts are based under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.9.4.
In our opinion, the financial statements of the Institute for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Institute as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 97 of 9.4.2008, p. 1.
(83) More information about the competences and activities of the Institute is available on its website https://eit.europa.eu/.
(84) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(85) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/65 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts 3.9.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.9.6.
Other remarks 3.9.7.
In December 2016, just before the end of the eligibility period (1 January 2016-31 December 2016), the EIT signed amendments to the specific grant agreements with the KICs EIT Digital, InnoEnergy, Health and RawMaterials.
The amendment to the individual grant agreement with Climate KIC was even signed in January 2017, after the end of the eligibility period.
The increase in individual reimbursement rates agreed in these amendments allowed the KICs to receive an additional EUR 15 million in grants from the EIT (EUR 6.0 million additional for Climate KIC, EUR 5.6 million for EIT Health, 2.2 million euros for KIC InnoEnergy and 1.2 million euros for EIT RawMaterials).
This approach runs counter to the intention to encourage KICs to seek funding sources and to incentivize them to progressively reduce their financial dependency on the EIT.
It could also affect fair competition between KICs as co-financing of expenditure also plays a role in annual grant decisions.
3.9.8.
Due to changes in the business plans of KIC InnoEnergy and EIT Digital, some activities not provided for in the original business plans were added retrospectively, with a total value of around EUR 3.3 million and EUR 0.6 million, respectively.
The activity added in the case of KIC InnoEnergy represents, in the Court's view, a significant change to the original business plan on the basis of which the initial maximum grant amount was awarded.
Since the level of grants awarded to each KIC is the result of a merit-based review process applied to their initially proposed business plans, subsequent significant changes to those plans call into question the grant decisions and the equal treatment of the KICs, thereby breaching Article 180(4). of the rules of application of the Financial Regulation.
3.9.9.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.9.10.
In 2017, the institute introduced a paperless payment system.
Although this has resulted in changes to its procedures and accounting system, the accounting system has not been re-validated since 2012.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.9.11.
To further strengthen the internal control system for grants to KICs, the EIT introduced centralized ex-ante controls for those KIC partners whose cost claims exceeded 325 000 euros.
The controls were carried out by two auditing firms on behalf of the EIT (86) and resulted in certified cost statements from the KIC partners.
The results of the ex-post controls carried out by another auditing firm contracted by the EIT confirm that the new approach of the certified cost claims is effective and important, as most of the material errors found concerned cost claims using this ex-ante - had not been subjected to controls.
(86) In previous years, the attestation audit was carried out by numerous private auditing firms on behalf of each KIC partner, whose submitted cost statements exceeded the threshold of 325 000 euros (reimbursement of actual costs and unit costs).
EN C 434/66 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.12.
The EIT business continuity plan and disaster recovery plan were adopted in 2013 and are outdated.
For example, more than half of the crisis management team members were no longer working for the EIT in 2017.
An updated version of the plans has been in the works for two years but has not yet been adopted.
As in previous years, the KICs did not fully absorb the financial support provided by the EIT.
The accepted total eligible costs of the KIC value-added activities of the five KICs operational before 2016 (first and second wave KICs combined) were 15% lower than assumed in the specific grant agreements concluded in early 2016 (87).
The main reason for the non-implementation of the funds was the incomplete implementation of business plans, partly due to the late approval of grant agreements and the multi-annual nature of KIC activities, and the self-financing rate of administrative costs, which was higher for some KICs turned out as planned.
Part of this appropriation has been used to increase the individual reimbursement rates originally set for eligible costs related to KIC value-added activities (see paragraph 3.9.7).
In particular, the second wave KICs (EIT Health and RawMaterials) have faced delays in starting their activities.
For the first wave KICs, according to the EIT assessment reports, the performance of Climate KICs in particular was insufficient.
3.9.14.
The EIT performed a performance assessment of the implementation of the business plans and then calculated some corrections.
However, these corrections had no financial implications for any of the KICs.
In line with the Horizon 2020 methodology for grant calculation, the EIT only applies the higher of the two for corrections that become necessary due to financial controls and performance evaluations.
While this methodology is appropriate for individual Horizon 2020 projects, it is less appropriate for the grants awarded to the KICs, which fund a wide range of different activities.
It is questionable whether it is justified to offset corrections due to performance, for example in educational activities, against corrections due to financial controls, which may concern, for example, innovation projects.
3.9.15.
In 2017, all KICs adopted Funding Sustainability Strategies in line with the EIT Guidelines, marking an important step towards making the KICs more sustainable in the future.
However, the first wave KICs continued to generate little revenue (between 2% and 6% of the cost of KIC value-added activities) and little progress was seen in 2017.
Co-funding from the KIC partners also remains low (and lower than foreseen in the individual grant agreements originally signed): the KIC value-added activities are still funded from 62% to 90% through EIT grants, depending on the KIC.
3.9.16.
The EIT publishes vacancies on its own website and on the website of DG Human Resources and Security, but generally not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.9.17.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (88). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for e-invoicing (2010), e-tendering in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and e-submission of bids (2015).
OTHER REMARKS 3.9.18.
The current Interim Director of the EIT took office in July 2014.
A selection process to appoint a new director was launched in 2016 but was unsuccessful.
Since then, no new recruitment process has been initiated.
Holding this post ad interim for such a long period of time is contrary to the Staff Regulations, which stipulate that a post may be occupied temporarily for a maximum of one year.
3.9.19.
Pursuant to Article 5(1) of the Statute of the EIT, EIT staff shall be directly employed by the EIT on fixed-term contracts and shall be subject to the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union.
Consequently, the EIT can only offer its temporary agents fixed-term employment contracts for a maximum period of five years, renewable once for a period of five years.
Those staff who joined the EIT shortly after its creation in 2009 will reach the maximum contract term of 10 years in 2020, which could create disruption to the continuity of operations and management in the coming years.
(87) And still 6% lower than assumed in the amended specific grant agreements concluded in December 2016 and January 2017.
(88) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/67 INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.9.20.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) audited in 2017 how the Institute handles the monitoring of grant agreements (89).
The Institute prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement.
3.9.21.
In 2016-2017, the EIT underwent an interim evaluation for the period 2011-2015 on behalf of the Commission (90).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.9.22. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(89) The Court has not verified this audit work.
(90) The Court has not verified this evaluation work.
C 434/68 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2012 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Completed (1) Ongoing (2) Ongoing (3) Completed In Ongoing Completed ANNEX Follow-up of previous years' observations Court's observations The grant agreements did not set specific thresholds for certain cost categories (staff costs, subcontracting, legal services, etc.).
The institute overestimated its need for budget funds for 2014 by 13.1 million euros or 5.6% (2013: 3.4 million euros or 2.5%), so that only 220 million euros of the available 233.1 million euros euros were tied.
The low implementation rate is mainly due to unused grant appropriations (€11.4 million) to finance KIC activities.
According to the business plans of the KICs, on the basis of which the grant agreements were concluded, the Institute's 2014 budget did not have to be fully utilised.
The unused appropriations will be included in the 2015-2017 budgets in accordance with the Financial Regulation of the Institute.
Although the KICs need to develop strategies for sustainable funding, to date, in their fifth year of existence, they still depend entirely on funding from the Institute and the KIC partners.
Since its establishment in 2009, the institute has had to contend with high staff turnover and instability at management level.
Two of the three head of department positions have been vacant since 2013.
One of them has been filled ad interim since 2013, contrary to the statute, which stipulates a maximum duration of one year.
The other is currently held by the COO, who is also interim director and thus fulfills three functions at the same time.
In its special report 4/2016, the Court concluded that the eligibility condition that the EIT contribution to the KICs must not exceed 25% does not offer any significant benefit and its removal would reduce the burden on the KIC partners operational and financial reporting would be significantly reduced (4).
However, these certificates are of extremely different quality, so that the security that can be derived from them is limited and the institute has to carry out additional controls.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/69 EN Court's observations According to the EIT founding regulation, the Institute's tasks include mobilizing funds from public and private sources and deploying the resources in accordance with the provisions of that regulation.
In particular, the Institute aims to raise a significant and growing proportion of its budget from private financial contributions and from revenues generated through its own activitiesŇ.
Despite this provision, which clearly refers to the budget of the EIT, the contribution from Horizon 2020 funds accounted for 99% of its 2015 budget.
Although the Institute is allowed to use unused funds (i.e. funds not committed during the year or funds released at the end of the year) in the budgets for the following three years, it has not adjusted its procedures in time to allocate 26.6 million euros available from the 2014 grant agreements in the budgets for the years 2015-2017.
These funds were available because the KICs took up less funding than expected.
According to the Commission's original objective, the institute was to achieve financial autonomy in 2010.
In June 2011, however, the Institute was granted only partial financial autonomy, as grant transactions and procurement procedures worth more than 60,000 euros remain subject to the prior approval of the (supervisory) Directorate-General for Education and Culture.
The Institute sponsors the EIT Digital Masters School program, in which 16 European universities participate.
The model for reimbursement of the universities' costs is based on a combination of a lump sum of maximum 8 000 euro/student (according to the regulations of the Erasmus Mundus programme) plus the actual costs including indirect costs calculated as a lump sum.
On this basis, in 2015 the universities received an average total of 15 000 euros/student (including the lump sum).
However, the model was never formalized and it is not possible to distinguish which activities fall under the lump sum and which fall under actual costs.
The institution should move to a clear and formalized model for claiming costs, based on a single method, such as a single lump sum based on cost evidence.
Year 2015 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
C 434/70 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observation The principle of sound financial management was breached when another KIC partner, through a procurement procedure, provided public relations services with daily rates ranging from 800 euro to 3 250 euro EUR per person, which were reimbursed in full by the institute (7).
The Institute used a framework contract from the Commission to organize conferences scheduled for 2015 and 2016 on the theme of innovation.
The agreed prices for these services ranged from EUR 800 per day for a junior consultant to EUR 2 250 per day for a senior consultant (almost four times the tariff stipulated in the framework contract for an executive).
The services procured at these prices amount to more than 100,000 euros per conference.
The Court found weaknesses related to the ex post verifications of the procurement procedures carried out by the legal entities of the KICs.
At least for one of the legal entities of the KIC, the selection of the procurement procedures to be reviewed was not representative of the population.
In addition, the Court came to a different conclusion regarding the legality and regularity of two procurement procedures.
In these cases, the Institute had accepted the direct specification or excessive expansion of the orders.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded in its audit report 'Grant Management: Transition to Horizon 2020' that the Institute has successfully aligned its procedures with the rules applicable to Horizon 2020, in particular the Rules for participation, and that the controls carried out by the Institute during the start-up phase have generally proved to be an effective means of supporting new KICs.
The IAS also concluded that urgent action is needed to ensure the reliable application of the legal framework applicable to Horizon 2020 and to further improve the start-up phase of new KICs. The Institute and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
At EUR 0.4 million or 40% (2015: EUR 0.4 million or 44%), the rate of commitments carried over to the following financial year was high for Title II.
These transfers mainly relate to multi-year contracts for IT services and meeting expenses for which no invoices have yet been received.
Year 2015 2015 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) N/A N/A 2016 Completed 2016 Ongoing 2016 N/A
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/71 EN Court's observations The grants for calendar year 2015 were only awarded in April 2015 and the grant agreements were signed in June and July 2015.
For the 2016 calendar year, the grants were awarded and the grant agreements were signed in April 2016.
Despite an improvement in 2016, these delays in grant decisions and the signing of grant agreements create uncertainty and reduce partners' willingness to commit resources and kick-start activities at the beginning of the year.
Recent calls for new KICs, thematic areas of which have been identified in the EIT's Strategic Innovation Agenda for 2014-2020, have sparked little competition.
Only seven proposals were submitted to the 2014 call for two KICs (Health and RawMaterials).
As a result of the call for two additional KICs (Food and Manufacturing) published in 2016, three proposals were received and the single KIC Manufacturing (Added Value in Manufacturing) proposal was not selected for quality reasons.
The director's post has been filled ad interim since August 2014 and another managerial post since February 2013.
Not only does this violate the statute, according to which the temporary appointment may not last longer than a year, the frequent changes and long-term interim solutions also unsettle the stakeholders and affect strategic continuity. The institute is a key player in the implementation of the Horizon 2020 programme, with a budget of €2.4 billion over the period 2014-2020.
The Commission has created a central support point for Horizon 2020 to ensure coherence between the program implementing bodies in areas such as legal services, IT tools, grant management, dissemination and exploitation of research results, etc.
However, unlike bodies such as the Commission's executive agencies and public-private partnerships, the Institute does not have direct access to the support body, but has to have each case approved by the Commission's overall Directorate-General.
This requirement affects the efficiency of the Institute's activities.
Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
C 434/72 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations The coordination and representation of the KICs is carried out by the legal entities of the KICs, which are almost entirely funded by the Institute.
During its audit, the Court paid particular attention to the procurement procedures carried out by these bodies, which it considers to be a high-risk area.
According to the 2015 Grant Agreements, KIC legal entities and/or KIC partners must ensure that procurements achieve best value for money or, where appropriate, the lowest price criterion.
For all contracts over EUR 60 000, the grant agreements require the KIC legal entities and/or KIC partners to invite at least three economic operators to submit bids and to document the procurement process to demonstrate its transparency.
We audited a sample of procurement procedures, worth around 7 million euro, carried out by the legal entities of the KICs and fully funded by the EIT.
The audit revealed significant deficiencies, such as direct award of contracts, missing essential elements in tenders, significant extensions of the original contracts in terms of duration and/or scope, contracts without limitations in duration and/or scope, or quality/price weightings that eliminate price competition.
The Institute had also identified the shortcomings in the procurement procedures of one KIC legal entity and prepared an action plan to improve the procurement procedures of all KIC legal entities in the future.
Despite the significant increase in budgetary resources from EUR 309 million (2008-2013) to EUR 2.4 billion (2014-2020) and although there have been six KICs since the end of 2016 instead of the previous three, the number of KICs approved has increased Places hardly changed (see Table 2).
As noted by the Court in its Special Report No 4/2016 (9), there is a risk that the Institute will not have sufficient capacity to cope with the increased workload.
The Interim Director of the Institute has highlighted this risk in the Institute's 2015 Annual Activity Report.
Year Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) 2016 Ongoing 2016 Pending (not under the control of the institution) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) Since 2016, administrative costs have been capped in the grant agreements.
The need for budget funds for 2016 was overestimated by 13.1 million euros or 5.0% (2015: 25 million euros or 9.4%), so that only 249.9 million euros of the available 263 million euros were committed .
The unused appropriations can be included in the 2017-2019 budgets.
The EIT financed on average 90% of the eligible costs reported by the KICs under the 2015 grant agreements.
The amounts collected by the KICs from various sources accounted for 2.5% of the funds requested from the EIT.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology needs to change its delivery mechanisms and some conceptual elements in order to have the expected impact.
The EIT continues to interpret the EIT Regulation differently, as set out in its response to the 2015 report.
In 2016, based on the model described, which is based on a combination of actual costs and lump sums, universities received an average total of 17 000 euros per year per student. The model was formalized at the end of 2016 and will be applied from 2017 onwards.
In 2016 (grant operations of 2015) the EIT reimbursed 410 000 euro for this contract.
The management position was filled in February 2018.
In June 2018, the Commission started the recruitment process for the post of Director.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology needs to change its delivery mechanisms and some conceptual elements in order to have the expected impact.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/73 REPLY OF THE INSTITUTE 3.9.7.
The EIT would like to clarify that amendments to the Specific Grant Agreements under the EIT KIC Framework Partnership Agreements can be submitted at any time during the eligibility period.
The KICs' amendments were subject to a technical and financial assessment by the EIT and pre-approval by the European Commission.
The amendments were then signed in December 2016.
In the case of EIT Climate-KIC, the KIC was formally notified of the approval of the amendment request on 21 December 2016 (i.e. within the eligibility period).
Regarding the increase of the individual reimbursement rates, the EIT notes that no additional grant amount was paid to the KICs as a result of the changes to the 2016 Individual Grant Agreements.
The total amount of the grant finally awarded (241.8 million euros) was significantly lower than the amount initially awarded (274.9 million euros).
Regarding the call for KICs to find their own funding sources and become financially viable, we refer to our reply to section 3.9.15.
As part of the assessment of the amendments, the EIT, after consultation with the European Commission, came to the conclusion that the adjustment of the individual reimbursement rates corresponds to the applicable legal basis and does not affect the equal treatment of KICs.
The possibility of adjusting the individual reimbursement rates was open to all KICs on the same terms.
Regarding the second observation, the EIT considers that the changes complied with Article 180(4) of the Rules of Application of the Financial Regulation as they did not call into question the decisions awarding grants and did not go against the equal treatment of applicants.
It should be noted that there is no provision for a materiality threshold that indicates which change to an action is to be considered “substantial” when assessing whether the change is relevant to the award of the grant.
The compliance with said provision of starting new activities has to be determined on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the relevance and impact of the activities for the overall KIC business plan.
The EIT carried out the assessment before approving the amendments and concluded that the amendments did not call into question the decisions to award grants.
As each KIC had the possibility to include new eligible activities in their amended business plans on equal terms, the equal treatment of KICs was also ensured.
Finally, the EIT points out that in the case of EIT InnoEnergy, the only activity at issue represented only 3.9% of the amended budget of the KIC business plan.
At EIT Digital, this share was 0.6%.
3.9.10.
3.9.12.
The updated versions of the contingency plan and the disaster recovery plan will be adopted by the EIT in 2018.
3.9.13.
The 2016 Individual Grant Agreements with EIT Health and EIT RawMaterials were signed later than expected as the Framework Partnership Agreements had to be signed first.
The specific grant agreements for 2017 and 2018 were systematically signed in February, allowing the KICs to start their activities early in each year.
Due to their dynamic and fast-paced nature, innovative measures cannot be planned linearly.
Some innovation projects or plans do not live up to expectations of their potential and have to be suspended while the grant agreements are being implemented. Moreover, some of the operational activities of the KICs, such as masters and doctoral courses or long-term research and innovation projects, are inherently multi-annual.
To address this issue, the EIT intends to enter into multi-annual grant agreements with KICs after 2020, provided the EIT budget allocates appropriate funds for commitments in multi-annual tranches.
In fact, the EIT has fully followed the methodology for grant calculations required by the Horizon 2020 legal basis and will continue to do so in the future.
The financial viability of KICs is a unique ambition of the EIT-KIC model and one of the most challenging aspects of the EIT's mission.
Some of the Innovation Communities already have significant co-financing to support their activities and generate substantial income compared to their budget.
For example, EIT Digital had 26% co-financing (€22 million) to cover the cost of the 2016 KIC value-added activities. In addition, complementary KIC activities worth more than 200 million euros have been implemented and paid for by the partner organisations.
Another example is EIT Health: the KIC generated over €6 million in revenue in its first year of operation Ń a respectable amount compared to the total funding it had received from the EIT (around €19 million).
EN C 434/74 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.17.
The EIT intends to launch the e-tendering and e-submission tools after the necessary agreements have been reached with the European Commission.
3.9.18.
The European Commission advertised the post of EIT Director on 1 June 2018 (91).
The first staff joined the EIT in 2010, reaching the maximum ten-year tenure in 2020.
In doing so, the EIT is aware of the risks, which were also highlighted in the EIT's 2017 Annual Activity Report.
The EIT formally requested the legal opinion of the European Commission by letter dated 14 May 2018.
C 187 A of June 1, 2018, p. 6.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/75 3.10.
EUROPEAN MARITIME SAFETY AGENCY (EMSA) INTRODUCTION 3.10.1.
The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEMSAŇ), based in Lisbon, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council (92).
The Agency's tasks include ensuring a high level of safety at sea, preventing pollution from ships, providing technical assistance to Member States and the Commission, and monitoring the application of Union legislation and evaluating its effectiveness.
3.10.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (93).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff at 31 December (2) 250 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. (2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 71 246 OPINION 3.10.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts(94) and reports on the implementation of the budget (95) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.10.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 208 of 5.8.2002, p. 1.
(93) More information about the Agency's responsibilities and activities is available on its website www.emsa.europa.eu.
(94) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(95) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/76 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.10.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.10.6.
3.10.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.10.8.
In 2014, the Commission, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), concluded a framework agreement with a contractor for the purchase of software licenses, maintenance and support services.
The framework contractor acts as an intermediary between the Agency and companies that can meet the Agency's needs.
For these intermediary services, the contractor of the framework agreement receives a surcharge of two to nine percent on the supplier prices. In 2017, payments totaling EUR 1.7 million were made to the contractor for the framework agreement.
The Agency did not systematically check the calculated prices and surcharges against the companies' offers, nor did it systematically check the invoices issued to the framework contractor. COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.10.9. The agency publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.10.10.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (96) (97). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.10.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) issued audit reports on project-funded actions and human resource management(98).
3.10.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance over the period 2011-2016 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (99).
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement. FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.10.13.
(96) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(97) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(98) The Court has not verified this audit work.
(99) The Court has not reviewed this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/77 EN ANNEX Follow-up of previous years' observations Court's observations In 2014, the Agency concluded a 6-year framework contract worth 3,5 million euro for the purchase of IT goods and services -area off.
The agency underestimated the need and the expected contract value, resulting in an 80% contract utilization at the end of 2016.
A new procurement procedure has to be initiated four years earlier than expected, which means additional administrative costs.
In 2016, the Agency concluded seven framework contracts for the purchase of oil pollution response systems.
Each framework contract (one lot each in the procurement procedure) referred to a specific piece of equipment.
The procurement procedure was launched on the assumption that the total value of the seven framework contracts would be 7 million euros.
However, this assumption underestimated the Agency's needs and seven framework contracts were signed, each worth 7 million euros, bringing the total value of the contracts to 49 million euros.
Year 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) N/A
EN C 434/78 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.10.8.
The Agency will remind the relevant Project Officers to consistently carry out the necessary checks on the prices charged by the Provider and/or to verify that the correct mark-ups are being applied.
EMSA will also request the lead contracting authority in this framework contract to regularly ask the contractor to always justify the market price/premium when responding to requests for quotations.
3.10.9.
Following a court decision, EPSO decided that only vacancy notices in all official EU languages or in the languages specified in the agency's founding act can be published on the EPSO website.
Due to the high translation costs of this new policy (around EUR 19000 per advertised vacancy), EMSA Ń as well as many other agencies Ń no longer use EPSO services in their vacancy advertisements.
This issue was raised with EPSO by some agencies in December 2015.
EMSA would welcome a solution that offers both sufficient transparency and respects the principle of sound financial management.
The agency strives to promote its job postings to a wide audience by sharing them on various social media used by many people.
It should be noted that most EMSA vacancies are addressed to technical professionals who regularly check the EMSA website.
In 2017, EMSA made extensive preparations to adapt all internal procedures to the use of e-procurement.
EMSA can confirm that since the beginning of 2018 it has been introducing the e-procurement modules.
The deadline for EU bodies to use e-procurement is October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/79 3.11.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR NETWORK AND INFORMATION SECURITY (ENISA) INTRODUCTION 3.11.1.
The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăENISAŇ), based in Athens and Heraklion(100), was established by Regulation (EC) No 460/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (101), which, after several amendments, was replaced by Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 (102).
The Agency's main task is to improve the Union's ability to prevent and respond to network and information security problems by making use of the measures implemented at national and EU level.
3.11.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (103).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 11 Total staff at 31 December (1) 70 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (104) and reports on the implementation of the budget (105) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.11.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
(100) The workplace of the operational staff of the Agency was transferred to Athens in March 2013.
L 77 of 13.3.2004, p. 1.
L 165 of 18.6.2013, p. 41.
(103) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.enisa.europa.eu.
(104) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(105) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/80 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.11.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the annual accounts are based 3.11.6.
3.11.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.11.8.
The agency's new accounting officer took office on 1 December 2017.
The surrender process was not carried out properly and did not meet the requirements of Article 55 of the Rules of Application.
In particular, no handover report was sent to the new accounting officer. COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.11.9. The agency publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.11.10.
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT 3.11.11.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance over the period 2013-2016 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (106).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.11.12. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(106) The Court has not verified this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/81 (1) According to ENISA, the number of staff was reduced to eleven at the end of 2017. Year 2015 2016 Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) Ongoing N/A 2016 N/A EN ANNEX Follow-up to observations from previous years Court's observations The Agency plans to partially transfer administrative staff in 2016 from Heraklion to Athens.
The rate of committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year is high for Title II (administrative expenditure) at 0.3 million euros or 25% (2015: 0.15 million euros or 22%).
This high rate is mainly due to transfers in Title I (staff expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) and is mainly related to IT investments and the purchase of a company car just before year-end.
As foreseen in the Agency's Financial Regulations, external evaluations of the Agency's performance have been carried out for 2014 and 2015; the final reports were presented in October 2015 and May 2016 respectively.
The 2014 evaluation concluded that the core operational activities carried out under the 2014 work program clearly relate to the legal mandate of the Agency; the effectiveness of the agency was rated as good.
However, room for improvement was identified regarding the division of the agency between Heraklion and Athens, which leads to cumbersome work processes and a lack of communication and collaboration.
The 2015 evaluation concluded that the Agency's activities and outputs respond to network and information security needs across the EU and Member States and that the Agency is effective in meeting the expectations of its stakeholders.
However, the report stressed that communication between the Agency and its stakeholders, who consider the Agency's mandate and outreach too limited, needs to be improved.
The Agency is currently implementing an action plan which it has subsequently agreed with the Management Board.
In 2016, the agency transferred eight more staff to Athens, reducing the number of staff in Heraklion to 14(1).
As the Court highlighted in its 2013 report, pooling all staff in one location could probably further reduce costs.
EN C 434/82 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.11.8.
While the handover to the new Accounting Officer was never formalised, informal meetings were held with the former Acting Accounting Officer to share knowledge.
The new accounting officer also received updated training on SAP to ensure a good understanding of the accounting system.
Nonetheless, ENISA will take remedial action to ensure an appropriate handover between outgoing and new staff.
3.11.9.
All vacancy notices published by EPSO must be translated into all official EU languages.
Unfortunately, due to its limited budget, ENISA is unable to meet these costs.
However, the agency uses traditional and social media and has pledged its cooperation in creating an inter-agency portal to reduce the risks related to the publication of vacancies, as many of the decentralized bodies face the same problem.
ENISA has not carried out a formal operational and financial impact assessment of Brexit as it is not expected to have a material direct impact on ENISA's budget, operations and administration.
Nonetheless, relevant internal procedures (namely procurement and recruitment) have been revised in the context of Brexit.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/83 3.12.
RAILWAY AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (ERA) INTRODUCTION 3.12.1.
The European Union Agency for Railways (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăERAŇ) based in Lille and Valenciennes was replaced by Regulation (EC) No. 881/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, by Regulation (EU) 2016/796 of the European Parliament and Council (107).
The agency's task is to improve the interoperability of railway systems and to develop a common approach to safety in order to contribute to the creation of a more competitive European railway sector with a high level of safety.
3.12.2.
The table below presents the Agency's main figures (108).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 budget (million euro) 31 Total staff at 31 December (1) 164 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 28 155 OPINION 3.12.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (109) and reports on the implementation of the budget (110) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.12.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
(107) OJ.
L 220 of 21.6.2004, p. 3, and OJ.
OJ L 138 of 26.05.2016, p. 1. According to the latter regulation, the original designation of the agency Ń European Railway Agency Ń was replaced by the designation Railway Agency of the European Union.
(108) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.era.europa.eu.
(109) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(110) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/84 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.12.5.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.12.6.
3.12.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.12.8.
In December 2016, the Agency's Accounting Officer was appointed Interim Head of Finance and Procurement in addition to this role.
As part of this additional role, he is responsible for managing the staff responsible for initiating and verifying commitments and payments.
The agency's financial rules stipulate that these financial actors report to the authorizing officer.
However, according to the principle of segregation of duties, authorizing officers and accounting are separate and mutually exclusive functions.
In 2014, the Commission, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), concluded a framework agreement with a contractor for the purchase of IT hardware and software, as well as maintenance and support services (IT services) away.
In the case of an audited payment of around EUR 47,000, the agency had acquired IT services from the contractor without a competitive process or prior market analysis. In 2017, payments totaling EUR 1.1 million were made to the contractor.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.12.10.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented an audit report on the Agency's human resources and skills management(111).
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement. FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.12.11.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years. (111) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/85 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations Court's observations The Agency's headquarters are in Lille and Valenciennes.
As mentioned by the Court in its special 2006 annual report, it is likely that costs could be reduced by concentrating all activities in one location.
This could also facilitate the conclusion of a comprehensive headquarters agreement with the Member State where the agency is located. The conditions under which the Agency and its staff work would thus be clarified.
Year 2013 Corrective action status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Ongoing (not under Agency control)
EN C 434/86 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.12.8.
The Agency is currently undergoing a thorough reorganization to accommodate its new responsibilities.
As part of this, and in line with the action plan agreed with the Internal Audit Service, an appropriate segregation of duties for the Accounting Officer should be established.
3.12.9.
The Court found that the contract was used in accordance with the contractual provisions of the DIGIT framework contract DI07360.
Any other considerations related to sound financial management should be communicated to the contract manager, ie DG DIGIT.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/87 3.13.
EUROPEAN SECURITIES AND MARKETS AUTHORITY (ESMA) INTRODUCTION 3.13.1.
The European Securities and Markets Authority (hereinafter ăthe BehšrdeŇ, also ăESMAŇ), based in Paris, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (112). 3.13.2.
The Authority aims to improve the functioning of the EU's internal financial market by ensuring a high, effective and consistent level of regulation and supervision, preserving the integrity and stability of financial systems and enhancing international coordination in supervision to ensure stability and effectiveness of the financial system.
3.13.3.
The table contains the most important figures for the authority (113).
Table Key figures of the Authority 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 42 Total staff at 31 December (2) 226 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
We have a) the annual accounts of the authority consisting of the annual accounts (114) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (115) for the financial year ending on December 31, 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these annual accounts are based under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.13.5.
L 331 of 15.12.2010, p. 84.
(113) More information on the competences and activities of the Authority is available on its website www.esma.europa.eu.
(114) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(115) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/88 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts 3.13.6. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.13.7.
Note 3.13.8.
Without questioning our audit opinion, the Court notes that on 29 March 2017 the United Kingdom notified the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
An agreement on the details of the withdrawal is currently being negotiated.
The agency's budget is funded 27% from European Union funds, 42% from direct contributions from EU Member States and 29% from fees charged by the supervised entities (rating agencies and trade repositories). The remaining 2% comes from other sources.
The UK's exit could have an impact on the Authority's activities as the main regulated entities are currently based there.
3.13.9.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.13.10. The Authority publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not always on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.13.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) issued in 2017 an audit report on ESMA's peer review processes with national competent authorities (116).
The authority then drew up an action plan.
3.13.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (117) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (118).
(116) The Court has not verified this audit work.
(117) ESMA, the European Banking Authority and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority.
(118) The Court has not verified this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/89 REPLY OF THE AUTHORITY 3.13.7.
ESMA recognizes the issue and will continue to monitor developments in the Brexit negotiations.
EPSO has decided to publish ESMA vacancy notices on its website only when the vacancy notices are available in 24 languages.
In 2017, the translation costs to be borne by ESMA (five vacancies out of 16) amounted to EUR 32 431.
ESMA considers that the cost of translating all vacancy notices into 23 languages each is not justified in terms of sound financial management and has therefore decided to use other media where the majority of EU agencies publish their vacancy notices .
EN C 434/90 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.14.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK (EU-OSHA) INTRODUCTION 3.14.1.
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEU-OSHAŇ), based in Bilbao, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 (119).
The agency's tasks include collecting and disseminating information on national and EU priorities in the field of safety and health at work, providing support to national and EU bodies involved in policy making and implementation, and providing information on preventive measures .
3.14.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (120).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 15 Total staff at 31 December (1) 64 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 17 65 OPINION 3.14.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (121) and reports on the implementation of the budget (122) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.14.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
(119) OJ.
L 216 of 20.8.1994, p. 1. This regulation was last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No. 1112/2005 (OJ
(120) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.osha.europa.eu.
(121) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(122) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/91 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts 3.14.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.14.6.
3.14.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.14.8.
The manager of the Agency's Accounting Officer is the Head of the Resource and Service Center.
NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.14.9.
The appropriations carried over for Title II (administrative expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) were high at 40% for each title or a total of 3.5 million euros, which is contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality.
There is no indication that the appropriations carried over are linked to expenditure planned during the budgetary process.
In December 2017, for example, the agency ordered IT equipment and office furniture for an amount of EUR 220,000.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (123) (124). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
The agency had not implemented any of these tools by the end of 2017.
3.14.11.
Unlike most other agencies, the Agency did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the possible impact of Brexit on its organisation, operations and accounts.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.14.12. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(123) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(124) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
C 434/92 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 2016 Pending Ongoing EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations At 417 279 euro or 30 % (2015: 364 740 euro or 26 %), the rate of on Title II (Administrative Expenditure) committed appropriations carried over from the 2017 financial year.
These transfers of funds relate primarily to IT services that had not yet been fully rendered or invoiced at the end of the year.
The commitments in Title III carried over to the following financial year amounted to 3370616 euros or 43% (2015: 3383052 euros or 41%).
These transfers of appropriations relate mainly to research projects and studies lasting more than one year.
In 2014, the agency concluded a framework agreement for IT consulting services for the period 2014-2017 for a total amount of 1.1 million euros.
Although project services were clearly defined in the individual contracts signed in 2016 for the implementation of the framework agreement, consultants were engaged on the basis of time and resources required. The price is not fixed and directly linked to the service, but is based on the number of days worked.
In addition, around 50% of the IT consulting services were provided outside the agency's premises in 2016, so that the agency was only able to monitor the efficient implementation of the orders to a limited extent.
In 2016, the payments made in accordance with this framework agreement amounted to around EUR 0.4 million.
The agency's founding regulation does not explicitly require external evaluations of its activities.
The Commission's proposal for a new founding regulation stipulates that an evaluation must be carried out every five years. Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Ongoing (not under Agency control)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/93 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.14.8.
For organizational reasons, the Accounting Officer is attached to the Resource and Service Center in the organigram, carrying out his duties in the offices of the financial staff.
However, the Accounting Officer reports directly to the Director (not the Head of the Resource and Service Centre) to ensure his independence.
3.14.9.
Transfers for Title III relate mainly to large-scale research projects lasting more than one year and are linked to the 2017 annual work programme.
The transfers in Title II relate primarily to services for which contracts exist for a period of two calendar years.
Regarding the amount of 0.2 million euros, it should be noted that the level of appropriations for Title II has increased since 2014 and the Agency's move to new premises, which resulted in savings of 0.6 million euros per year 1.4 million euros was reduced.
In 2017, an amending budget adopted in June further reduced Title II appropriations by 60 000 euros, due to a reduction in the contribution of local authorities to EU-OSHA's infrastructure budget.
The majority of the IT equipment purchases concerned were planned for 2018 (and documented as such in the 2017 draft budget and further budget planning phases). However, the funds required for this (100,000 euros) were finally committed in 2017 when funds were available.
From budget 2019, a list of possible additional IT purchases will be attached to the programming document provided e.g. B. funds are available due to favorable renegotiation of prices.
The transfer between titles (according to the provisions of the framework financial regulation) has been notified to the Management Board, Parliament and Council.
3.14.10.
Since the end of 2016, the Agency has provided electronic access to all initiated procedures (ex ante notices of low and medium value contracts and contract notices) via its website, with the addition of dedicated e-mail addresses for the award of public contracts.
In 2018 (Target October) the Agency will launch the electronic tendering tool for the phase of notification and processing of information requests up to the submission of offers.
The agency has now carried out an analysis of the possible impact of Brexit on its organisation, operations and accounts.
EN C 434/94 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.15.
EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS (EUROFOUND) INTRODUCTION 3.15.1.
The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (hereinafter ăthe FoundationŇ, also ăEurofoundŇ), based in Dublin, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (125).
The Foundation's mission is to contribute to the design and creation of better living and working conditions in the Union through the promotion and dissemination of relevant knowledge.
3.15.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the foundation (126).
Table Main figures of the Foundation 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 Total staff at 31 December (1) 100 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Foundation.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 21 104 OPINION 3.15.3.
We have a) the Foundation's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (127) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (128) for the financial year ended December 31, 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these annual accounts are based under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.15.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Foundation for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Foundation as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 139 of 30.05.1975, p. 1.
(126) More information on the Foundation's competences and activities is available on its website www.eurofound.europa.eu.
(127) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(128) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/95 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts 3.15.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the financial statements 3.15.6.
3.15.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.15.8.
As part of this year's audit of all EU agencies, the Court analyzed accounting, including the hierarchical position and independence of their accounting officers.
At the Foundation, the head of the administration and finance department is the superior of the accounting officer.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (129) (130). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017 the Foundation had introduced e-invoicing and e-tendering for certain procedures, but not e-submission of tenders.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.15.10. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(129) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(130) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
C 434/96 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years The Court's observations In its report on the 2014 annual accounts, the Court pointed to under-pay for staff in the period 2005-2014, linked to the transition to new EU staff regulations in 2005.
Although the reasons for the underpayments are different (2014: non-compliance with the guaranteed minimum wages; 2015: application of an incorrect multiplication factor to the salaries), the Court again found underpayments (43350 euros) and some overpayments (168930 euros) which 30 active and former employees were affected.
Eurofound corrected all underpayments but will not recover the overpayments (in line with Article 85 of the current Staff Regulations).
The Foundation should re-analyze what mistakes may have been made in the transition to the 2005 Staff Regulations and carry out a comprehensive evaluation of its payroll.
In its December 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the need for the Foundation to improve its project management, particularly in terms of governance, monitoring and reporting.
The Foundation and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
The rate of commitments carried over to 2016 increased in Title III (operational expenditure) to 2.8 million euros or 43% (2015: 2.1 million euros or 31%), mainly due to cross-year projects (studies and pilot tests).
The Foundation may consider introducing differentiated budget appropriations to better reflect the multiannual nature of activities and unavoidable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
External evaluations of its activities are not expressly required in the founding regulations of the Foundation.
The Commission's proposal for a new founding regulation stipulates that an evaluation must be carried out every five years.
Year 2016 2016 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/97 REPLY FROM THE FOUNDATION 3.15.8.
The Management Board is satisfied with the current independence of the Accounting Officer, in particular with regard to his pre-existing power to report directly to the Chair, in accordance with Article 6.1 of the Charter of the Accounting Officer, and the Management Board's involvement in the appointment process.
However, a new founding regulation currently being discussed between the institutions is likely to give the role of Appointing Authority to the Management Board rather than the Director.
This will allow Eurofound to reassess the issue of greater independence for the accounting officer in the future.
3.15.9.
However, two pilot agencies have encountered significant problems with the software.
In addition, the e-procurement software is currently only available for open calls (but not for negotiated calls), of which Eurofound has very few per year.
Therefore, Eurofound will continue to monitor developments and is ready to invest in e-procurement once satisfied with its stability and functionality.
EN C 434/98 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.16.
AGENCY FOR THE EUROPEAN GNSS (GLOBAL NAVIGATION SATELLITE SYSTEM) (GSA) INTRODUCTION 3.16.1.
The Agency for the European GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite System) (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăGSAŇ), whose seat was transferred from Brussels to Prague(131) on 1 September 2012, was created by Regulation (EU) No. 912/2010 of European Parliament and of the Council (132) repealing Council Regulation (EC) No. 1321/2004 (133) on the management bodies of the European satellite navigation programs and amending Regulation (EC) No. 683/2008 of the European Parliament and of the rates(134).
Established under Council Regulation (EC) No. 1321/2004, the European GNSS Authority officially took over on 1 January 2007 all the tasks previously entrusted to the Galileo Joint Undertaking. The Agency continues to carry out these tasks as the ăAgency for the European GNSSŇ on the basis of Regulation (EU) No. 912/2010 as amended.
The Commission has also delegated the operation of the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay System (EGNOS) to the Agency through a delegation agreement.
3.16.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (135).
Table Main figures about the agency Budget (million euro) (1) Total staff at 31 December (3) 2017 704 (2) 166 2016 626 160 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
(2) Of which the Agency received €676 million through delegation agreements with the Commission.
(3) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents, and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (136) and reports on the implementation of the budget (137) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
(131) Unanimous Decision 2010/803/EU of the representatives of the governments of the Member States (OJ
L 276 of 20.10.2010, p. 11.
L 246 of 20.7.2004, p. 1.
L 196 of 24.7.2008, p. 1.
(135) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.gsa.europa.eu.
(136) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(137) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/99 Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.16.4.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.16.6.
Emphasis on a Fact 3.16.7.
On December 15, 2016, the Agency signed a framework agreement worth 1.5 billion euros for the operation of the Galileo satellite system during the period 2017-2027.
The agreement was awarded following a public procurement process.
One of the bidders involved has brought proceedings against the Agency before the Court of Justice of the European Union to challenge the outcome of the procurement procedure.
The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union will rule on the legality and regularity of the procurement procedure for the framework agreement and all associated individual orders and future payments.
The Agency disclosed and explained the matter in the 2017 Preliminary Financial Statements and further stated that in 2017 EUR 49 million (7% of the 2017 budget including amounts received through the Delegation Agreements) was disbursed in connection with the Framework Agreement .
Note 3.16.8.
Negotiations for an agreement on the details of the withdrawal are currently underway.
The Agency operates both the Galileo Security Center (GSMC) and Galileo Earth Stations in the UK.
In the annual accounts, in the chapter 'Events after the balance sheet date', the agency refers to the Commission's decision, adopted on 24 January 2018, to relocate the second location of the Galileo Security Center (GSMC) from the United Kingdom to Spain.
3.16.9.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.16.10.
The agency was relocated and its mission redefined in 2013.
The Agency revised its financial rules in 2014 and delegated its accounting function to the Accounting Officer of the Commission in 2015.
Although these events have resulted in significant changes to the Agency's procedures, the accounting system has not been re-validated since 2012 (138).
(138) See also the related comment made in 2015 in the follow-up table.
EN C 434/100 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 OBSERVATIONS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.16.11. The agency publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.16.12.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (139) (140). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for e-invoicing (2010), e-tendering in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and e-submission of bids (2015).
The agency was not using any of these tools at the end of 2017.
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT 3.16.13.
In 2017, a mid-term evaluation of the Galileo (141) and EGNOS programs and the Agency's performance in 2014-2016 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (142).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.16.14. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(139) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(140) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(141) Galileo is the European Union's Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS).
(142) The Court has not verified this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/101 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations Court's observations Fixed assets (net book value: 1,0 million euro) are not insured.
The accounting systems were last validated in 2012.
The promised validation of the systems did not take place due to the expected extensive changes in the procedures and in the flow of information after the agency's move.
The new accounting officer plans the next validation for 2020.
The agency has prepared business continuity plans for the security sites in France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.
However, there is no emergency plan for the headquarters in Prague and the agency as a whole.
The Agency's 2015 annual work plan was only adopted in March 2015 and its multi-annual work program 2014-2020 has yet to be adopted.
The late acceptance of central planning documents harbors risks for the achievement of the agency's goals.
In 2015, the agency had a high staff turnover with 14 leaving and 26 new employees.
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that no Agency-wide annual risk assessment was carried out in 2016 and that the significant risks for the Agency are not mentioned in its planning documents or activity reports.
In addition, the IAS noted that the terminology used for the different elements of the performance measurement system is not consistent, making performance monitoring difficult.
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan. At 2.8 million euros or 46% (2015: 2.5 million euros or 42%), the rate of commitments carried over to the following financial year was high for Title II (administrative expenditure).
EN C 434/102 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.16.10.
The GSA agrees with the Court's observation.
In 2015, GSA outsourced its accounting to the European Commission, so the Commission's Accounting Officer (within DG Budget) provides all services, including validation of local systems, required by Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to agencies.
The validation concept is currently being discussed and planned within the services of DG Budget.
3.16.11.
The publication of vacancies on the EPSO platform requires a translation into all official EU languages, whereas English is the agency's sole working language and the publication of vacancies in English is seen as a useful pre-selection step to ensure our working language is understood at first becomes.
In addition, the translation of job advertisements into all official EU languages would mean additional financial and time expenditure for the agency, so that no benefit can be derived from it Ń also for the above reasons Ń. Instead, the GSA intends to publish all vacancy notices on the inter-agency portal, which the agencies consider equivalent to EPSO and which offers EU citizens a sufficient level of transparency.
In addition, the agency also publishes its vacancies on specialized space websites.
Electronic communications in TED (provided by the Publications Office) for the publication of contract notices, contract award notices, notices of rectification, notices of changes, etc. are currently used in the GSA whenever appropriate under Article 264 of the Rules of Application.
The agency also intends to use the TED e-tendering system to create and publish tenders.
With this in mind, the GSA is currently coordinating with the Publications Office to register and create a system account.
With regard to high value bids (above the thresholds of Article 118(1) FR), the GSA is currently taking the necessary administrative steps to use the ăe-SubmissionŇ module of the ăe-PRIORŇ information system developed by the European Commission (available from DG DIGIT provided) to ensure that the electronic system set up for the submission of all bids meets all the requirements of the HO and AB.
It is pointed out that the ăe-SubmissionŇ module currently only supports open procedures and the GSA may therefore only use it for such procedures.
In this context, the GSA has already held a first coordination meeting with DG DIGIT and is in the process of finalizing and signing an agreement with them to define the framework for ăe-SubmissionŇ and start its implementation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/103 Agencies funded under MFF heading 2 Ń Sustainable growth: natural resources 3.17.
EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (EEA) INTRODUCTION 3.17.1.
The European Environment Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEUAŇ), based in Copenhagen, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90(143).
The Agency's task is to set up an environmental monitoring network that will provide the Commission, Parliament, Member States and, more generally, the public with reliable information on the state of the environment.
3.17.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (144).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 70 Total staff at 31 December (1) 212 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency; the figures given include both core and non-core funds.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 50.5 208 OPINION 3.17.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (145) and reports on the implementation of the budget (146) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.17.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 120 of 11.5.1990, p. 1.
(144) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.eea.europa.eu.
(145) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(146) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/104 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.17.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.17.6.
3.17.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.17.8.
As part of this year's audit of all EU agencies, the Court analyzed accounting, including the hierarchical position and independence of their accounting officers.
The Agency's Accounting Officer is subordinate to the Head of Administrative Services.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.17.9. The EEA noted that one of the European Topic Centers (ETC Inland, Coastal and Marine) implemented the 2016 Action Plan with significant delays.
It therefore did not accept some of the results and rejected part of the costs claimed by the ETC.
The correction of the amount of the final payment also shows that the financial and performance controls related to the grants awarded to the ETC have been further improved.
3.17.10.
Some shortcomings were identified in several award procedures.
For several tenders, the agency used specifications that did not contain minimum requirements for economic and financial capacity in the selection criteria.
Based on these criteria - contrary to their objective - it is therefore not possible to determine whether a bidder fulfills the necessary requirements for the implementation of the contract.
3.17.11.
Price competition for some high value tenders was based solely on the daily rates offered for specific profiles and not on the estimated time required to complete the tasks.
Framework agreements were concluded with only one bidder, although a reopening of competition between different bidders would lead to better results in relation to the individual contracts.
3.17.12.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (147) (148). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
3.17.13.
In particular, the decisions made in the minutes of the selection committee were not justified in sufficient detail.
The criteria used at each stage of the selection process and the role of each member of the selection committee need to be clarified in order to improve transparency and equal treatment of candidates.
(147) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(148) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/105 3.17.14.
The agency publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies in one place. The main reason given by the Agency is the high cost of translating EPSO publications, which have to be translated into all official EU languages.
NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.17.15.
In order to implement the Copernicus delegation agreement concluded with the Commission, the Agency made several Copernicus-related legal commitments before receiving the pre-financing from the Commission.
Although these commitments had an exceptional report signed by the Director of the Agency, this practice is in breach of the rules of application of the Financial Regulation.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.17.16. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
C 434/106 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations Court's observations In 2016 the Agency updated its security policy, but many of its other internal procedures are outdated.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) performed a performance audit of the processes used to produce the State of the Environment Report 2015 (SOER).
In 2014, the Commission, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), concluded a framework contract with a contractor for the purchase of software and licenses, as well as related IT maintenance and consultancy services.
In 2016, the agency used this framework agreement to purchase software licenses totaling EUR 442,754.
The largest order concerned the renewal of software licenses provided by an exclusive Scandinavian reseller (112 248 euros).
In this case, the use of the framework contract, which led to unnecessary surcharges, was not justified. Year 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) Completed N/A 2016 Ongoing
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/107 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.17.8. The Agency has discussed the Court's observation with the auditor and is satisfied that the functional independence is guaranteed by the fact that the auditor is a senior grade (AD 12) official and direct has access to the board of directors.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.17.9.
The Agency welcomes the Court's recognition of the further improvement in its management of ETC, both in terms of financial and operational controls.
In order to avoid a repeat of the problem encountered in 2017 at ETC Inland, Coastal and Marine waters, the task in question has been removed from the annual action plan and transferred to the Agency.
The Agency endeavors to maintain the current level of controls on grants awarded to ETCs.
The Agency confirms that it changed the requirements related to the verification of the financial capacity of bidders during 2017 and that bidders are now required to provide information on financial ratios (liquidity, solvency and profitability); in addition, in accordance with the provisions of Article 147(1)(a) of the Application Rules (AB), a minimum turnover is now required, which must be at least twice the estimated annual contract value.
The Agency would like to reiterate that the decision to offer framework contracts to individual contractors was made consciously and with due regard to the limited competition in the relevant markets and the nature and complexity of the services to be provided.
When awarding specific contracts on the basis of the framework contracts, the Agency takes into account not only the contractually agreed daily rates, but also the estimated number of days required to carry out the tasks in order to calculate an estimate of the budget available for a specific Individual order to be applied.
Only then will negotiations begin with the contractor on the details of his bid, always making sure to get the best value for money.
If the tender is resumed, the agency has no means of further negotiations on the bidders' offers.
In accordance with the decision of the Board of Directors of November 9, 2015 to introduce a solution for the electronic processing of procurement procedures in the EEA, the Agency introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures in the course of 2014 and is now in the process of applying this module to all expand their procedures; the electronic tender, on the other hand, has been valid since January 1, 2015 for all general tenders.
The integration of electronic submission of tenders started in early December 2017 and the first call for tenders using this module was launched on 18 June 2018 (EEA/COM/18/002 Ń Provision of publishing services to the EEA).
The Agency takes note of the Court's observation and confirms that it is currently adapting its selection/recruitment procedures on the following points: a) The completion of the individual steps in the different phases (pre-selection, selection, application interview and written test) is described in the relevant Documents additionally confirmed with the time (not only with the date). b) Expected answers to the questions given for the interview and the written test are systematically worked out in the pre-selection phase. c) An electronic (paperless) procedure will be introduced to improve reporting.
3.17.14.
EPSO has refused publication for the agency on the grounds that the precondition that all vacancies are translated into all official languages is not met.
However, the Agency does not have the means or the resources to respond to EPSO's request.
In this case, not only would all job offers have to be translated, but also the applications in all official languages would have to be processed, which would involve prohibitively high additional costs.
Like most other EU agencies, the agency has therefore looked for an alternative to the EPSO website and has been using a website for its announcements since May 2018 that serves the same purpose; it is the agency job advertisement board set up and maintained by the network of EU agencies .
In addition, the agency uses LinkedIn, its own website and its own Facebook pages to ensure the best possible dissemination.
EN C 434/108 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 BUDGETARY REMARKS 3.17.15.
Before finalizing the delegation agreement for Copernicus with DG GROW, the Agency underlined that the pre-financing conditions are incompatible with the Financial Regulation (Article 7 QD to the Financial Regulation 2014).
Initially, DG GROW was understanding in its reply; however, DG BUDG, responsible for preparing the standard template, refused to amend the delegation agreement.
After the start of the implementation of the delegation agreement, the agency continued to point out the problems and explained that it is regularly forced to claim exceptions in order to be able to continue its operational activities; this eventually led DG GROW to amend the pre-financing terms of the Delegating Agreement in August 2017 and to undertake an additional pre-financing in November 2017.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/109 3.18.
EUROPEAN FISHERIES CONTROL AGENCY (EFCA) INTRODUCTION 3.18.1.
The European Fisheries Control Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEFCAŇ), based in Vigo, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 768/2005(149).
3.18.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (150).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 17 Total staff at 31 December (2) 72 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations. (2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 10 64 OPINION 3.18.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (151) and reports on the implementation of the budget (152) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
L 128 of 21.5.2005, p. 1.
(150) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.efca.europa.eu.
(151) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(152) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/110 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.18.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.18.6.
3.18.7.
Internal Audit Service reports and external evaluation reports 3.18.8.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service provided the Agency with an audit report on 'IT monitoring and project management'(153) in November 2017.
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
3.18.9.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency was carried out on behalf of the Management Board (154).
The agency drew up a plan to implement the recommendations.
(153) The Court has not verified this audit work.
(154) The Court has not verified this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/111 REPLY OF THE AGENCY The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
EN C 434/112 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies funded under MFF heading 3 Ń Security and Citizenship 3.19.
The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEPAŇ), based in Budapest, was established by Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council (155), which repeals and replaces Council Decision 2005/681/JHA (156).
3.19.2.
The table below presents the Agency's main figures (157).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 9 Total staff at 31 December (1) 53 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 10 51 OPINION 3.19.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (158) and reports on the implementation of the budget (159) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.19.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
(155) Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training (EPA) and replacing and repealing Decision 2005/ 681/JHA of the Council (OJ
L 256 of 1.10.2005, p. 63.
(157) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.cepol.europa.eu.
(158) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(159) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/113 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.19.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.19.6.
3.19.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.19.8.
The Agency delegated its accounting function to the Accounting Officer of the Commission in 2014.
In addition, in 2014 the agency's headquarters were relocated and in 2016 its mission was redefined.
Although these events have resulted in changes in the Agency's procedures, the accounting system has not been re-validated since 2013.
In December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement with an economic operator worth EUR 1.6 million and lasting four years for the provision of temporary staff.
The only competition criterion in the award procedure was the price.
A framework agreement with several companies selected on the basis of price and quality criteria would have been better in order to provide quality services in a timely manner.
3.19.10.
On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to leave the European Union (Brexit).
3.19.11.
The agency publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies in one place.
3.19.12.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (160) (161). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.19.13.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report in 2017 on the Agency's training needs assessment, planning and budgeting (162).
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement. FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.19.14.
(160) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(161) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(162) The Court has not audited the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/114 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations Court's observations The rate of carry-overs was 140 055 euro or 30 % (2015: 212 456 euro or 49 %). Medium at Title II (Expenditure on Supporting Activities) High.
Staff turnover is high, which could affect the Agency's business continuity and ability to carry out the activities foreseen in its work programme.
Between 2013 and 2016, the number of host country staff increased from one to 16, representing 31% of the total staff in 2016.
Possible reasons for the low number of applications from other Member States are the correction coefficient (69%) applicable to salary costs for the host country and competition with another EU body also based in Budapest.
Year 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) N/A Ongoing
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/115 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.19.8.
CEPOL agrees with the Court's observation.
In 2014, CEPOL outsourced its accounting to the European Commission, so the Commission's Accounting Officer (within DG Budget) provides all services, including validation of local systems, required by Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation applicable to agencies.
The validation concept is currently being discussed and planned within the services of DG Budget.
3.19.9.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's observations but does not share its opinion.
The quality criteria were included in the technical specifications and tenderers who did not confirm their ability to meet the criteria were to be excluded.
The decision to award a single framework contract is based on previous experience and specificities of the national labor market.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's observations.
Brexit was discussed in executive meetings; the discussions in the NAPO (inter-agency network for procurement officers) and in the IALN (inter-agency legal network) as well as the communications sent by the Commission were closely followed.
The risks for CEPOL were assessed as low, but not officially documented.
The estimated cost of translating vacancy notices into all official EU languages, as required for publication on the EPSO website, is considered to be too high given the expected benefits.
From 2018, CEPOL will also publish all vacancies on the interagency job exchange developed by the network of EU agencies.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's observations and has confirmed that progress is being made towards the introduction of electronic submission of tenders in cooperation with DG DIGIT.
3.19.13.
The Agency confirms that progress has been made in the implementation of the action plan, with two out of four recommendations rated as implemented by the Internal Audit Service.
EN C 434/116 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.
EUROPEAN ASYLUM SUPPORT OFFICE (EASO) INTRODUCTION 3.20.1.
The European Asylum Support Office (hereinafter ădas OfficeŇ, also ăEASOŇ), based in Valletta, was established by Regulation (EU) No 439/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (163) to promote practical cooperation in the field of asylum and to To support Member States in fulfilling their European and international obligations to protect vulnerable people.
Since 2015, the office has been supporting Greece and Italy in the context of the migration crisis.
3.20.2.
Table 1 contains the most important figures for the office (164).
Table 1 Key Office figures 2017 Budget (million euros) (1) 79 Total staff at 31 December (2) 200 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the office. COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 53 125 OPINION 3.20.3.
We have obtained a) the Office's financial statements, comprising the annual accounts(165) and reports on the implementation of the budget (166) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.20.4. In our opinion, the Office's financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the position of the Office as of December 31, 2017, its results of operations and cash flows and changes in net assets for the year then ended then December 31, 2017 overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 132 of 29.05.2010, p. 11.
(164) More information on the Office's responsibilities and activities is available on its website www.easo.europa.eu.
(165) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(166) The reports on the implementation of the budget include all revenue and expenditure transactions as well as the explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/117 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.20.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Basis for adverse opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts 3.20.6.
Paragraphs 3.20.9-3.20.31 describe material and systematic violations of the Office's financial regulations and other rules and regulations in the payments. Payments made in connection with procurement and hiring procedures were particularly hard hit.
The cumulative error due to irregular payments is at least €7.7 million or 10.3% of the total payments made by the Office in 2017.
Opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.7.
In our opinion, the payments underlying the financial statements for the financial year ended December 31, 2017 are material because of the significance of the matters described in the section Basis for Disagreed Opinion Regarding the Legality and Regularity of Payments Underlying the Financial StatementsŇ buggy.
Emphasis of Matter 3.20.8.
From the end of 2017, the staffing situation at the office deteriorated exponentially.
At the management level of the Office, four out of ten Head of Unit posts and 18 out of 27 Head of Division posts were vacant.
In the ăAdministrationŇ department, three out of four head of department posts and five out of ten department head posts were vacant. This poses a significant challenge to the senior management of the office.
In addition, at the end of May 2018, 129 temporary staff positions were filled, but 78 were still open.
Of the posts for contract staff, 71 were filled and 13 were still open.
The office currently does not have the administrative capacity to fill that many vacancies (see Table 2).
Overall, the continuation of the office's activities to the current extent is significantly jeopardized by this situation.
EN C 434/118 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Table 2 Office organizational chart at the beginning of June 2018
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/119 COMMENTS ON THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF PAYMENTS AND THE RELEVANT INTERNAL CONTROLS The nature of its activities poses major risks for the Office 3.20.9.
Since 2016, the Office has faced an unprecedented expansion of tasks and activities to provide operational and technical support to Member States in the context of the migration crisis.
This is reflected in an increase in the budget from an initial €19 million in 2016 to €79 million after the second budget change in 2017.
The number of award procedures rose from 87 in 2015 to 140 in 2017.
Payments increased by 225% from 2 578 in 2015 to 8 381 in 2017.
3.20.10.
The office is one of the few institutions in the European Union that has multiple locations.
In addition to the headquarters in Malta with 179 permanent staff, the Office manages two major support operations in Greece and Italy, involving in 2017 747 experts from Member States and associated countries, 202 cultural mediators (interpreters), 178 temporary staff and 21 permanent staff of the Office.
3.20.11.
As already noted by the Court in our special report 6/2017 'EU response to the refugee crisis: the hotspot approach', the Office is highly dependent on Member States providing sufficient resources.
The efficiency of the activities is hampered in particular by the fact that Member States send their experts for very short periods (six to eight weeks).
The exceptional operational challenge caused by the migration crisis has not been mitigated by sound governance and effective internal controls 3.20.12.
When it started supporting Greece and Italy in 2015, the Office was confronted with Member States providing insufficient resources for deployments.
The office had previously encountered difficulties in filling the posts foreseen in its staffing plan.
Since 2014, the Court has regularly repeated its remark that the Office is struggling with high staff turnover.
The Court has repeatedly emphasized in its previous annual reports that this situation poses a significant risk to the achievement of the objectives set in the annual and multiannual work programmes.
Despite repeated attempts (36 recruitment processes and 100 new contracts in 2017) the Office has not managed to recruit and retain sufficient staff (see also the 'Emphasis on a matter' paragraph in paragraph 3.20.8).
3.20.13.
The extraordinary operational challenge caused by the migration crisis was not mitigated by a solid management structure.
The Management Board did not set up an internal audit function at the Office and the actions in Greece and Italy were not subject to internal audit.
Until the end of 2017, the Board of Directors exercised only limited oversight over the financial management.
3.20.14.
The Office does not have an internal legal service, nor is there any systematic internal review of legal documents.
The office outsources most legal issues (mainly personnel and procurement issues) without internal resolutions or guidelines clearly specifying who may outsource which legal issues, to which law firm and under what conditions.
Although the office consults at least eight different law firms, it lacks a comprehensive inventory of all relevant contracts, cases and opinions.
3.20.15.
Legal services are not adequately reviewed by the Office to ensure that they are solely in defense of the Office's interests and not in defense of the interests of any individual.
Appropriate procedures to protect against conflicts of interest are not always effective.
In general, the use of external lawyers reduces the possibility of settling disputes before a lawsuit is filed.
3.20.16.
The matters set out in paragraphs 3.20.13-3.20.14 expose the Office to risk of financial loss and damage to its reputation.
The Office is currently investigating these matters internally.
Numerous material breaches of regulations due to lack of internal controls Payments for contingency services 3.20.17.
In 2017, payments totaling 7.7 million euros were made for temporary work.
In the absence of a competitive public procurement procedure, the Court found the contract for auxiliary services in Greece to be irregular in its audit carried out in relation to 2016.
Nevertheless, in 2017 the Office still made payments of 4.8 million euros under this irregular contract.
EN C 434/120 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.18.
The procurement procedures for temporary services carried out in Malta in 2017 (payment volume in 2017: 1.0 million euros) were inadequate in their execution (e.g. short deadlines for submitting offers, lack of transparency in the case of deadline extensions), which made the competition Ń one of the most important principles in public procurement procedures Ń was impaired.
As a result, the procedures had to be repeated several times because no offers were received.
3.20.19.
Contracts were inadequately checked for compliance with national regulations on temporary employment, exposing the office to significant financial and reputational risks.
In addition, the verification of time sheets for temporary workers and identified irregularities showed significant weaknesses.
Payments for personnel expenses 3.20.20.
Personnel-related payments amounted to 13.5 million euros in 2017. The Court found serious weaknesses in four of the 14 recruitment procedures audited.
3.20.21.
For example, the Office did not publish a vacancy notice to fill the post of senior consultant, but instead recruited directly from a reserve list prepared for the post of department head.
The extensions of deadlines were not always justified in view of the number of applications received by the original deadline.
3.20.22.
Some procedures for recruiting AD staff were not appropriate for the grade advertised.
In a procedure for filling a managerial post in the 'Administration' department, the vacancy notice was more restrictive than for the same posts in other departments.
In another procedure, the office did not adequately document the suitability of the applicants.
Payments for Rent and Related Works 3.20.23.
The total rent for all offices at the various locations amounted to two million euros in 2017.
The Court found that the Office had signed the leases for the expansion of the headquarters in Malta and several new offices in Athens, Lesvos and Chios without having properly analyzed the local market beforehand.
3.20.24.
In June 2017 the office signed a lease for office space in Lesvos.
It also accepted a contract with the landlord - without any competition - for works to adapt the rented building to the needs of the office.
The value of the construction contract (0.7 million euros during the first months of the lease) exceeded the annual value of the lease many times over.
Investing significant amounts in rented buildings involves significant financial and operational risks.
3.20.25.
In 2018, the office decided to terminate a lease for office space in Chios and related construction work.
It is currently trying to limit the financial risk exposure caused by the termination.
Payments for travel expenses 3.20.26.
The Court found a contract for travel services worth €4 million for 2016 to be irregular in its audit.
The contract was awarded to a bidder who did not meet all the selection criteria.
The Office continued to make payments of 1.5 million in 2017 based on this irregular engagement.
3.20.27.
In 2017, the Office found significant deficiencies in the recognition of travel services, in particular the lack of supporting documents to prove that the travel services in question were actually requested or provided.
The Office is currently investigating this matter internally.
Other payments 3.20.28.
In addition, other services such as cleaning services, security services, interpreting and consulting services, which were based on public procurement procedures, were also systematically affected by the same deficiencies.
The Court found significant weaknesses in the needs assessment for the office, the drafting of the specifications, the choice of contract type, the procurement procedures used, the deadlines for submitting tenders, the evaluation and award procedures (ie the weighting of price criteria versus quality criteria), the € Changes and renewals of contracts, the execution of the contracts and the review of the services provided.
These shortcomings affect the principles of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination of bidders.
The following paragraphs contain some examples of the above deficiencies.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/121 3.20.29.
The Office directly awarded a service contract in 2017 for consultancy services related to the implementation of the Action Plan on Greek islands.
The contract was awarded to a pre-selected economic operator without using any of the procurement procedures provided for in the Financial Regulation.
The procurement procedure and all related payments (992000 euros) were therefore irregular.
3.20.30.
The office has since amended the original contract concluded in 2016 with a law firm for 5,000 euros several times and increased it to 259,000 euros in 2018.
Payments totaling EUR 98,332 were made under the contract in 2017, partly for consulting services that required a competitive public procurement process.
The changes and payments relating to these consulting services were therefore irregular.
3.20.31.
The execution of the contract concluded in 2013 (value: 120,000 euros, increased to 132,000 euros in 2017) for the organization of four to six major events in an international hotel over a period of four years was not in accordance with the original subject matter of the contract.
The office instead used the contract for about 50 smaller events.
The contract was therefore not executed in accordance with the regulations.
NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.20.32.
According to the agreements between the European Union and the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein (also referred to as Associated Countries) regarding their participation in the Bureau, the Associated Countries are fully involved in the work of the Bureau and are entitled to Office support measures.
The Office received a grant from the Commission in 2016 to ensure adequate capacity building in Greece, support the implementation of the Declaration of European Union and Turkey and significantly speed up the relocation to alleviate the current heavy burden on Greece.
All of these activities form part of the Office's core business of supporting activities of common interest.
The Office used the grant to pay (6.4 million euros in 2016 and 1.7 million euros in 2017) commitments related to these activities.
However, it did not include these amounts in the calculation of the associated countries' contributions.
If these contributions were included, the associated countries would have to pay EUR 0.5 million more.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.20.33. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
C 434/122 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 Corrective action status (completed/ongoing/pending/ N/A) Ongoing (1) N/A (2) Ongoing Pending Ongoing ANNEX Follow-up of Observations from previous years Court's observations Of all payments, 446 (18%) were made after the deadlines set in the Financial Regulation.
According to a decision of the Executive Director, participants in meetings organized by the Office are classified in one of three categories (A, B or C) for reimbursement of expenses.
The number of participants classified as recipients of ăAŇ category reimbursements increased from 61% in 2013 to 69% in 2014.
Two of the three bidders participating in an audited procurement procedure for the provision of travel services based on a framework service contract worth 4 million euros for the period 2016-2020 were asked to provide additional information on each of the same selection criteria.
The framework contract and the payments based on it for 2016 amounting to 920,561 euros are therefore irregular.
2016 Outstanding in 2017 (3)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/123 The Court's observations In February 2016, the Office directly awarded a 12-month framework contract worth EUR 3,6 million for support services related to the management of the migration crisis.
The framework contract was awarded to a pre-selected economic operator without using any of the procurement procedures provided for in the EU Financial Regulation. The award is therefore not in line with the relevant EU rules and the resulting 2016 payments of EUR 592 273 are irregular.
In August 2016, the Office launched an open procedure (five lots) to award a framework contract to cover its needs for cultural mediators/interpreters in different countries.
The total value of the framework contract for the four awarded and tested lots (lots 2-5) was 60 million euros over four years.
However, this contractor met the financial requirements of the selection criteria (annual turnover of EUR 1 million) for only two of the three previous years; for the other year, a declaration of commitment was concluded with a non-profit organization, according to which it made its "sales" available to the contractor (approval loan).
At the extraordinary meeting of the European Council on April 23, 2015 and in the ten-point plan on migration adopted by the foreign and interior ministers on April 20, 2015, Member States were called on to introduce fingerprinting for all secure migrants.
This required the purchase and subsequent donation to the Greek State of 90 fingerprint scanners and 90 compatible computers (equipment) for an amount of €1.1 million under a grant agreement between the Commission and the Office.
However, no officials from the office were on hand to meet this request. Furthermore, confirmation from the Greek competent authorities that the fittings had been delivered to the hotspots in February and early March 2016 and put to their intended use only came in July 2017.
Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
C 434/124 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations Contracting authorities must request in writing clarification of the essential elements of the prices or costs when these appear unusually low and must give the tenderer an opportunity to comment (5).
In its October 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the lack of adequate planning of procurement procedures related to administrative expenditure and weaknesses in the monitoring of both procedures and individual contracts concluded in the context of framework contracts .
In 2016, the Office faced various challenges in its operational environment, including not only the significant increase in its budget and the expansion of its tasks, but also the significant increase in the number of transactions, the replacement of the post of Accounting Officer with several interim solutions and the introduction of a paperless workflow system.
Neither the re-validation of the accounting system nor the introduction of a system for regular ex post transactional checks has compensated for this significantly changed and unstable situation.
In 2014, the Commission signed a framework contract with a contractor on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Office) for the purchase of software licenses, maintenance and support services.
In 2016, payments totaling 534 900 euros were made to the framework contractor.
On behalf of the Commission, the Office's performance in the period 2011-2014 was subjected to an external evaluation, for which the final report was presented in December 2015.
The Office is implementing an action plan agreed with the Board of Directors in view of its expanded mandate. The final implementation report was planned for June 2017.
Year 2016 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) N/A Ongoing (6) Completed (7) 2016 Ongoing (8) 2016 N/A
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/125 EN Court's observations The Office acquired and set up 65 containers for a total value of 852136 euro to be used as mobile offices in the Greek and Italian hotspots.
VAT refunds for the years 2014 (180,919 euros) and 2015 (245,960 euros) were still pending at the end of 2016.
At 2.5 million euros or 43.9%, the rate of carry-over of title II (administrative expenditure) was high (compared to 2015: 1 076 583 euros or 36.9%).
The transfers of appropriations relate mainly to IT infrastructure, translation and publishing services, business consultancy and expenses for board meetings, which were contracted towards the end of 2016 and/or invoiced only in 2017. Year 2016 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) N/A (9) Ongoing (10) N/A
(2) The internal control standards have been transformed by the Commission into the internal control framework.
(3) The new contract for the provision of travel agency services was signed in March 2018.
(4) The new contract for the provision of support services to EASO in Greece was signed in March 2018.
(5) Article 151 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 1268/2012 on the rules of application of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No. 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ .
(6) In September 2017, the Office described the implementation of the recommendations to the IAS as “ready for review”.
(7) The accounting system was validated in May 2018.
Private auditing companies are commissioned with the ex-post verification of transactions.
(8) The Office plans to introduce systematic controls for all offers above 135 000 euros from 1 January 2018.
To date, none of the transactions have been above this threshold.
(9) The insurance companies did not submit the offers requested by the bureau.
(10) The Office applied to the Maltese tax authorities for a VAT refund for all reporting periods up to 31 December 2017.
In 2017, VAT was recovered for a total of 203277 euros (2014 and Q3 2016).
EN C 434/126 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE OFFICE The Office thanks the Court for the extremely helpful report.
At the same time, the Office is grateful to the Court for its acknowledgment of the extremely difficult situation in which the Office found itself during the reporting period, due to the enormous increase in its tasks: it was given additional mandates to support Member States and to participate in the implementation of initiatives to participate at EU level; these included the redistribution and the EU-Turkey Statement, the budget increase, the exponential increase in payments and the increase in procurement procedures (both in number and in complexity).
In addition, the office has to manage a large number of locations and numerous management positions (heads of departments, heads of divisions, heads of sectors) are vacant.
In its present reply, the Office will elaborate on some of the Court's observations; overall, however, it accepts the report and the findings it contains.
3.20.6. and 3.20.13.
Regarding the systematic breaches of policy in the Office, the Office – under new management – has begun to take the necessary steps to ensure that compliance is a priority and central to the culture and execution of all its actions.
This includes an objective, honest and open internal control, ăself-assessmentŇ.
The Office accepts the Court's finding that the supervisory and internal control structures for which the Office is responsible have not in the past received the attention required to ensure reasonable legality and regularity.
Here, too, the Office would like to state that the development of the structures and procedures for the systematic guarantee of legality and regularity (and the correspondingly precise and comprehensive reporting) will have absolute priority under the new management.
3.20.6., 3.20.8. and 3.20.12.
The Court rightly underlines the fact that the staffing situation in the office has deteriorated and is insufficient, and that it is also an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal control system.
The current staffing situation is one of the main challenges facing the Office in addressing the shortcomings identified by the Court in its observations, which can largely be seen as a consequence of the lack of resources to work in a structured and orderly manner.
The Office is taking a head-on approach to solving this problem and, on the basis of a thorough recruitment plan, which has been preceded by a needs assessment, is pursuing urgent recruitment procedures to fill managerial and other key positions (operational and administrative).
In addition, the office is making efforts in the area of employee satisfaction to solve the problem of staff turnover. Although in this context it must be borne in mind that the low weighting plays an important role compared to the rather high cost of living in Malta, the Office recognizes that more effort needs to be made to improve staff satisfaction.
Some measures such as flexible working options, improved internal communication and the organization of employee events have already been introduced.
3.20.9. and 3.20.19.
The Court gives a correct account of the difficulties and the rapid growth, in absolute terms, of financial transactions and procurement procedures.
These figures speak a clear language, but basically they do not adequately reflect the constraints in terms of finances and allocation.
These figures do not take into account other facts and measures that add to the procurement dilemma, such as the following two aspects: Ń The use of externally funded experts (Articles 204 and 287 of the Financial Regulations), which is a heavy workload for the procurement sector.
This is expected to deteriorate further in the years to come as the Office will need to call in [medical] experts to assist with COO medical information tasks.
Ń market-specific difficulties and limitations associated with our geographic areas of operation.
In rural regions of Italy and Greece, the conditions for a competitive market for the provision of office services and products are not very good.
In addition, the Office is atypical in terms of contract size for Maltese economic operators as clients, who tend to lack the capacity to meet the needs of the Office's larger contracts.
3.20.10.-3.20.12. and 3.20.19.
This feature is essential for understanding the relatively large amount of administrative support required and the extremely complex environment when it comes to introducing functioning internal control structures.
It should also be noted that the Office relies to an unusually large extent on contractors due to its operational activities, its geographically widespread area of work and (as the Court rightly notes) the limitations in the use of Member State experts.
This is a factor causing a multiplication of tasks related to procurement and finance (including decentralized financial actors) since for sites in Greece, Italy and Cyprus
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/127 specific contracts are required for hotspots in Greece and Italy (leasing contracts, contracts for cleaning, security, water supply and essential contracts, e.g. for the provision of temporary and interpreting services) .
In this case too, human resources are of crucial importance and the Office is currently (acknowledging the multiplication factor due to its nature as a multi -site agency) exploring the possibility of allocating the necessary resources to ensure overall accuracy and quality in the procurement and financial cycles as well as to ensure legality and regularity and to have the decentralization checked by a consulting firm.
3.20.14., 3.20.15. and 3.20.16.
The Office recognizes the need for in-house legal expertise and accepts this need.
In addition, the Office fully agrees that legal services must always strictly represent the interests of the Office and not the interests of any individual (but are not mutually exclusive).
The Office acknowledges that the involvement of outside legal services was not adequately controlled.
As the Court states in its report, internal investigations into this matter are continuing and the results are being communicated to the Court.
3.20.17. and 3.20.26.
The office accepts the remarks.
These corrective actions were taken immediately after the Court identified the irregularity in its 2016 audit report (Court's report received in September 2017).
Unfortunately, however, due to the deadlines and the fact that the Office replaced the contracts as soon as possible after finding them non-compliant, payments under the contract did occur in 2017.
3.20.18. and 3.20.19.
The Office accepts the comments and reiterates that these problems can be seen as a result of insufficient resources and deficiencies in internal control and management, all of which the Court identifies in its report.
3.20.23.-3.20.25.
As the Court mentions in its report, an internal investigation into this matter is ongoing.
3.20.29.-3.20.31.
3.20.32.
As regards the last paragraph of the report (43), the Office has some doubts as it carried out its work in 2016 according to the agreements with DG BUDG.
The Office has been in contact with DG BUDG on this matter to further clarify this matter and will take immediate action should DG BUDG change its previously communicated position.
EN C 434/128 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.21.
EUROPEAN CENTER FOR DISEASE PREVENTION AND CONTROL (ECDC) INTRODUCTION 3.21.1.
The European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (hereinafter ăthe CentreŇ, also ăECDCŇ), based in Stockholm, was established by Regulation (EC) No 851/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (167).
It is also intended to coordinate the Europe-wide networking of bodies active in this area.
3.21.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the center (168).
Table Main figures for the Center 2017 budget (million euro) 58 Total staff at 31 December (1) 279 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 58 260 OPINION 3.21.3.
We have in possession of a) the Centre's annual accounts, comprising the annual accounts(169) and reports on the implementation of the budget(170) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.21.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Center for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Center as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 142 of 30.4.2004, p. 1.
(168) More information on the competences and activities of the Center is available on its website www.ecdc.europa.eu.
(169) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(170) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/129 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.21.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.21.6.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.21.7. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
C 434/130 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Year 2015 2016 2016 Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Completed Completed (1) Completed (2) ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations The Court's observations identified various deficiencies affecting the transparency of the audited procurement procedures, such as the lack of a clear link to the Centre's annual work programme, insufficient underpinning of the estimated contract value or the lack of a financial benchmark (threshold) to assess the bidder's financial capacity.
In May 2015, the Centre's interim director was appointed by a decision of the Management Board.
As of December 31, 2016, this post exceeded the one-year maximum stipulated in the Staff Regulations by eight months.
This also resulted in 15 other transitional arrangements for other staff.
In its October 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted that despite the Centre's ongoing efforts to strengthen its internal procurement controls, significant procurement weaknesses remain.
The IAS concluded that there are weaknesses in the planning and monitoring of procurement processes and that procurement processes are not always covered by the annual work program or a funding decision.
Reference is also made to the Court's report on the Center's 2015 accounts and the weaknesses identified affecting the transparency of procurement procedures.
The Center and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
As in previous years, the rate of carry-overs in Title III (operational expenditure) was high at 7.9 million euros or 41% (2015: 7.5 million euros or 42%).
The transfers of funds were mainly related to multi-year projects in the areas of scientific advice (€2.4 million), surveillance (€1.3 million), public health training (€1.4 million) and IT Public health applications (2.1 million euros).
The Center may consider introducing differentiated budget appropriations to better reflect the multiannual nature of activities and unavoidable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
(1) (2) Following a selection process, the interim Director was appointed Director in 2017.
The Center has introduced new IT tools to improve planning and monitoring of procurement procedures.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/131 REPLY OF THE CENTER The Center takes note of the Court of Auditors' report.
EN C 434/132 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.22.
EUROPEAN FOOD SAFETY AUTHORITY (EFSA) INTRODUCTION 3.22.1.
The European Food Safety Authority (hereinafter ăthe Authority, also ăEFSAŇ), based in Parma, was established by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council(171).
3.22.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the authority (172).
Table Main figures of the agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 81 Total staff at 31 December (2) 443 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Authority. COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 79 443 OPINION 3.22.3.
We have a) the annual accounts of the authority consisting of the annual accounts (173) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (174) for the financial year ending on December 31, 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these annual accounts are based under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.22.4.
L 31 of 01.02.2002, p. 1.
(172) More information on the competences and activities of the Authority is available on its website www.efsa.europa.eu.
(173) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(174) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/133 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.22.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.22.6.
3.22.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.22.8.
The Accountant of the Authority is supervised by the Head of Administration/Corporate Services.
In May 2017, the authority concluded three framework agreements in the cascade system on behalf of nine agencies that participated in the open tender, which covered a wide range of audit services.
Although inter-agency procurement procedures offer a good opportunity to increase administrative efficiency, in the case of procurement procedures in which the specific services to be provided are not known at the time of the call for tenders, framework agreements in which competition is called for each individual order again better suited to achieve a good cost-benefit ratio than framework agreements in the cascade system.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.22.10.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report in 2017 on the process for the assessment of regulated products/assessment phase in the authorization of pesticides (175).
The Authority is preparing an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there is potential for improvement.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.22.11.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years. (175) The Court has not verified this audit work.
C 434/134 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of previous years' observations Court's observations The Authority has not yet put in place a clear and comprehensive ex-post financial control strategy covering all areas of activity and defining the frequency and scope of these controls .
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the controls in place for IT project management are adequate, but highlighted significant weaknesses in the area of IT governance.
EFSA and IAS agreed on a corrective action plan. Year 2015 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/135 REPLY OF THE AUTHORITY 3.22.4.
EFSA welcomes the Court's unqualified opinions on the reliability of the accounts, and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
3.22.8.
In order to ensure the independence of the Accounting Officer, the formal requirement set out in EFSA's Financial Regulations is implemented at EFSA as follows: The current Accounting Officer was appointed in 2008 by EFSA's Management Board.
The accounting officer reports to the head of the BuS department. To ensure the accounting officer's functional independence in the performance appraisal procedures, the head of the BuS department acts as assessor and the chairman of the audit committee acts as countersigning officer.
The Board of Directors may at any time remove the Accounting Officer temporarily or permanently from his post.
3.22.9.
On the issue of single tenders versus cascading framework agreements, there is no obligation to use the single tender model and either model may be appropriate depending on the particular scenario.
EFSA believes that single competitive calls are again more appropriate for standard services and are used in EFSA contracts for statistical services, systematic literature review and target group research.
EFSA uses the cascade model in cases where the focus is on a long-term contractual relationship.
In particular in the case of the framework contract for external audit services, the main issues are to ensure i) a proper understanding of EFSA's activities, ii) a coherent audit methodology and iii) credibility at all levels of governance.
EFSA has control over the budget for proposals made in the cascade system by the contractor.
3.22.10.
EFSA will duly implement the agreed post-IAD action plan on the assessment of regulated products/assessment phase in pesticide authorization.
EN C 434/136 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.23.
EUROPEAN INSTITUTE FOR GENDER EQUALITY (EIGE) INTRODUCTION 3.23.1.
The European Institute for Gender Equality (hereinafter ădas InstitutŇ, also ăEIGEŇ), based in Vilnius, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1922/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (176).
3.23.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the institute (177).
Table Main figures of the Institute 2017 Budget (million euro) 8 Total staff at 31 December (1) 45 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 8 45 OPINION 3.23.3.
We have a) the annual accounts of the Institute, consisting of the annual accounts (178) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (179) for the financial year ended December 31, 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these annual accounts are based under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.23.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Institute for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Institute as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's Accountant, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
(177) More information about the competences and activities of the Institute is available on its website www.eige.europa.eu.
(178) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(179) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/137 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.23.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.23.6.
3.23.7.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion. COMMENTS ON THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF OPERATIONS 3.23.8.
At the end of the 2017 financial year, the Institute was a defendant in four disputes brought before the courts by rejected bidders in connection with three procurement procedures.
In each of these cases, the applicant sought annulment of the award decision and an award of damages.
The damages claimed in these four cases amount to 700 000 euros or 9% of the Institute's annual budget.
According to the assessment of the Institute's external lawyer, a provision of EUR 75 000 (or 1% of the Institute's annual budget) has been booked to cover expected losses.
The judgment rendered by the court in each of these cases will determine the legality and regularity of the award procedures for these contracts and future payments.
In 2016, the institute issued an open call for tenders for travel services.
The specifications and the evaluation process did not offer a sufficient guarantee of the best value for money.
The award formula and pricing mechanism were inappropriate as they did not allow for a proper evaluation of the bids submitted by the bidders.
The framework agreement was concluded for a maximum period of four years and a maximum amount of 700,000 euros.
In 2017, payments amounting to 137,000 euros were made.
3.23.10.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (180) (181). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017 the institute had introduced e-invoicing for certain procedures, but not e-tendering and e-submission of bids.
3.23.11.
The Institute publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies in one place.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.23.12.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report in 2017 on EIGE's management of stakeholder relations and external communication' (182).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.23.13. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(180) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(181) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(182) The Court has not verified this audit work.
C 434/138 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 Closed EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations At 1,7 million euro or 51 % (2015: 2,2 million euro or 60 %) the rate of Title III (operational expenditure) commitments carried over to the following financial year remained high, mainly due to cross-year studies.
The Institute may consider introducing differentiated budget appropriations to better reflect the multiannual nature of activities and unavoidable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
In 2016, the Institute launched an open call for a framework contract for the maintenance and updating of its gender statistics tools and sources for a maximum amount of 1.6 million euros.
When asked by a bidder, the institute clarified on its website that the maximum amount per lot was 800,000 euros.
However, two separate framework contracts were signed with the same bidder for a maximum amount of 1.6 million euros per lot, with an option to further increase the amounts by up to 50% per lot, allowing the Institute to continue throughout the term of the framework contract (up to four years) to conclude individual orders of up to EUR 4.8 million or three times the amount specified in the contract notice.
In 2016 payments amounting to 87 920 euros were made.
In response to the audit, the Institute signed addendums to both framework contracts reducing the maximum amounts to EUR 800000 each (with a potential maximum increase of 50%).
In the invitation to tender under a negotiated procedure with a single bidder for the procurement of services for the maintenance and support of IT tools and databases, the maximum price for all three services described was capped at 81 000 euros (excluding VAT) and it was stipulated that higher offers would not be considered.
However, after receiving offers for two of the three requested services, the institute concluded a service contract with a price of 97 410 euros.
In 2016, payments amounting to 73,057 euros were made. Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/139 EN Court's observations In January 2016, the Institute published its external evaluation.
Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) Ongoing
EN C 434/140 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE INSTITUTE 3.23.8.
EIGE takes note of the remark.
EIGE has investigated the weaknesses and, regardless of the Court's rulings in these cases, will adjust the tendering procedures to minimize the risk of future litigation and potential dissatisfaction with rejected applicants.
3.23.9.
EIGE takes note of the remark and stresses that internal controls are in place to check and control the pricing of flight and hotel offers submitted by the contractor.
EIGE will raise this matter with the EU Agencies Network with the aim of exchanging examples of good practice.
In addition, EIGE has expressed an interest in participating in a joint tendering process organized by the Commission Services (PMO).
Following the award of this contract, EIGE intends not to renew its existing framework contract for the provision of travel, accommodation and related services.
The full implementation of these modules in EIGE is expected in the third and fourth quarter of 2018.
Given the limited number of procedures and the high costs associated with the services, EIGE has decided not to pursue this option, in accordance with the principles of economy and proportionality.
Taking into account the costs involved in making job descriptions available in all 24 official EU languages and the fact that some vacancies, due to their specific nature, should be advertised on other job boards, EIGE considers that the current time for the publication of its vacancies channels used ensure appropriate transparency and disclosure.
3.23.12.
In line with the recommendations made in the audit report, EIGE has developed an action plan which is regularly reviewed and updated.
The agreed deadline for the implementation of all measures is December 31, 2018, and implementation is already well advanced.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/141 3.24.
EUROPEAN MEDICINAL AGENCY (EMA) INTRODUCTION 3.24.1.
The European Medicines Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEMAŇ), based in London, was replaced by Council Regulation (EEC) No. 2309/93, by Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (183), created.
3.24.2.
Table Main figures for the agency Budget (million euros) Total staff at 31 December (2) 2017 331 (1) 766 2016 305 768 (1) Approved budget. The final budget depends on the revenue generated from fees and charges in 2017.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (185) and reports on the implementation of the budget (186) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.24.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
(183) OJ.
(184) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.ema.europa.eu.
(185) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(186) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/142 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.24.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.24.6.
Emphasis of Matter 3.24.7.
The London-based Agency has prepared its provisional financial statements and accompanying notes on the basis of information available at the date of signature (1 June 2018).
3.24.8.
On 20 November 2017, the General Affairs Council of the European Union agreed to move the Agency's headquarters to Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
The move to temporary premises is scheduled for early 2019 and the Agency has made a provision in its accounts of €18.6 million for the costs involved.
3.24.9.
In addition, the lease for the agency's current premises in London includes a lease period until 2039 Ń with no opt-out clause Ń.
In the notes to the annual accounts, the rental costs remaining until 2039 are shown at 489 million euros. Of this amount, a maximum of EUR 465 million - this corresponds to the remaining rental period after the agency's planned move to Amsterdam - is disclosed as a contingent liability.
3.24.10.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.24.11.
At the Agency, the Chief Financial Officer is the superior of the Accounting Officer.
3.24.12.
The Agency has also undergone two major reorganizations since 2014, while at the same time being entrusted with new extensive tasks (see paragraphs 3.24.15-3.24.17). Although these events have resulted in changes to the Agency's procedures and accounting system, the accounting system has not been re-validated since 2013. COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.24.13.
The Agency publishes vacancies on its own website, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various EU agencies and bodies in one place.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/143 3.24.14.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (187) (188). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
By the end of 2017, the agency had introduced e-tendering for certain procedures, but not e-invoicing and e-submission of bids.
Administration of Consulting Services 3.24.15.
In the previous year it was checked how the agency manages consulting services. Among other things, two selected projects for the implementation of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No. 1027/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (189)) and the regulation on clinical trials (Regulation (EU) No. 536/2014 of the European Parliament and Council (190)), which required the construction of complex EU-wide networks, which required extensive technical IT developments.
As the number of posts in the agency's establishment plan was not increased, which would have allowed it to build up the necessary expertise in-house, the agency turned to consultancies to carry out these tasks.
However, the over-reliance on consulting firms has left the agency critically dependent on this outside expertise.
3.24.16.
In order to bring the projects back under its control, the agency determined which functions must not be outsourced but must be carried out internally.
In addition, the agency is no longer awarding consultancy contracts based on the criteria of time and resources, but on a fixed price basis.
It also set up a more appropriate process for approving project changes.
3.24.17.
It will take time to reduce the Agency's critical reliance on consulting firms and the impact of the actions taken will only be felt over the years.
One of the two major projects reviewed in 2016, the pharmacovigilance project (EudraVigilance Adverse Drug Reactions Database), was completed in 2017 at an additional cost of around EUR 0.5 million.
The clinical trials project is still ongoing. A date for the start-up was not set, but the budget was increased again in 2017 by a further 4.9 million euros (191).
Initial planned start-up date Planned start-up date 31 December 2016 Actual/planned start-up date 31 December 2017 Original budget (euro) Budget on 31 December 2016 (euro) Q3 2015 Q4 2017 Q4 2017 3rd quarter .7 million 14.3 million Q1 2017 Q3 2018 not defined 6.1 million 24.3 million EudraVigilance Adverse Drug Reactions Database Clinical Trials and EU Database INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS Budget as at 31 December 2017 ( Euro) 14.8 million 29.2 million 3.24.18.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service audited in 2017 how the Agency implemented the Pharmacovigilance Fees Regulation(192)(193). The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement.
(187) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(188) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
L 316 of 14.11.2012, p. 38.
L 158 of 27.05.2014, p. 1.
(191) In 2018 this project was merged with a new project (SUSAR Ń CTIS Ń Information Systems for Clinical Trials). The estimated total budget is 34.3 million euros.
(192) Regulation (EU) No. 658/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ
(193) The Court has not verified this audit work. EN C 434/144 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 FOLLOW-UP TO OBSERVATIONS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.24.19.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/145 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations Court's observations The Regulation on the Agency's fees specifies due dates for the collection of fees from applicants and the related payments by the Agency to the competent national authorities fixed(1). Most of the transactions audited by the Court failed to meet these deadlines.
In 2014, the Agency conducted an administrative procedure against its Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) staff member.
Since the introduction of a new IT accounting system in 2011, the reporting on the work processes related to the commitments and on the utilization has not been transparent enough.
The agency negotiated business rate agreements for accommodation of experts with 25 hotels in London without using a competitive tendering process.
The six agreements on business tariffs and the payments based on them in 2016 amounting to around 2.1 million euros are therefore illegal.
In 2014, the Commission, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), concluded a framework contract with a contractor for the purchase of software and licenses, as well as related IT maintenance and consultancy services.
In 2016, payments totaling EUR 8.9 million were made to the contractor for the framework agreement.
The Agency did not systematically check the calculated prices and surcharges against the suppliers' offers, nor did it systematically check the invoices issued to the framework contractor.
C 434/146 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations Since 2014, the Agency has undergone two major reorganizations, with senior and middle management positions being reassigned internally.
The reallocation of key IT and administrative staff was unsuccessful, leaving the Agency and its operations at significant risk of instability.
In addition, there is no system in place to analyze available skills, identify gaps, and recruit and allocate appropriate staff.
Year 2016 Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) Completed 2016 Consulting services In addition to the audit work carried out annually for all agencies, we analyzed how the agency used consulting services in two major projects.
The Parliament and the Council have entrusted the Agency with the implementation of the regulation on pharmacovigilance (Regulation (EU) No. 1027/2012) and the regulation on clinical trials (Regulation (EU) No. 536/2014), making the structure more complex EU-wide networks required.
The Agency was given these tasks at a time when it was expected to reduce its staff, in line with the Interinstitutional Agreement on Budgetary Discipline of 2 December 2013.
The number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan has not been increased, which would have allowed it to acquire the necessary expertise in business and IT development.
Extensive use of external consultants With only 13 employees in its IT delivery department, the agency relied on the services of consulting firms in the areas of business analysis, information technology, project management and quality assurance.
In the second quarter of 2016, the agency had 131 on-site consultants and another 60 off-site consultants.
The agency has therefore been critically dependent on external expertise since the projects began, but does not have a strategy governing the use of consultants.
Insufficient control over project development and implementation When the Agency was given its new tasks in 2012 and 2014, it did not have an adequate method to manage projects of this size.
In 2014 a new method was introduced, which had to be made more precise in September 2016.
Ongoing (See paragraphs [3.24.15-3.24.17])
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/147 EN Court's observations A number of cases deviated from the planned activities or approach before being approved through formal amendments.
All external consultants were contracted on a time and resource basis by mid-2016, although project deliverables were clearly defined.
Delays and cost increases The agency faced delays and cost increases in the development of the systems.
The numerous changes in project scope, budget and timelines were primarily due to repeated adjustments in system requirements to reflect the changing needs of Member States(2).
The table below shows two large projects as examples. Initial Planned Date of Commissioning Current Planned Date of Commissioning Original Budget (euro) Budget on 31 October 2016 (euro) EudraVigilance Adverse Drug Reactions Database Q3 2015 Q4 2017 3.7 million 14, 3 million clinical trials and EU database 1st quarter 2017 3rd quarter 2018 6.1 million 24.3 million The founding regulation stipulates that the Commission carries out an external evaluation of the agency and its activities every ten years.
Such a long period of time does not guarantee that the interested parties will receive timely feedback on the service.
Year Status of Corrective Action (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) 2016 Ongoing (1) Agency Fees Regulation, Articles 10(1) and 11(1).
(2) Telematics governing bodies, in which Member States are represented, to develop and approve the requirements for future IT systems.
EN C 434/148 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.24.8.
3.24.11.
The Agency complies with the EMA Financial Regulations: The Accounting Officer is already nominated by the Management Board under Article 50(1) of the EMA Financial Regulations, and the Management Board has adopted a detailed charter of the duties and responsibilities of the Accounting Officer.
The declaration of integrity signed by the accounting officer and the administrative director reinforces this independence.
In March 2018 the validation of the Agency's accounting systems started.
3.24.13.
The EMA offers the necessary level of transparency and publicity by publishing on or having access to the EMA website, LinkedIn, inter-agency job boards or in specialist publications, depending on the profile.
As a result, the EMA is attracting great interest from applicants across the EU. Some selection procedures involved more than 1 000 applicants.
In addition, the General Implementing Rules relating to the recruitment and use of temporary agents state that the selection letters for temporary agents under Article 2(f) of the CEOS may only be published in the working languages of the agencies; Agencies that do not have a fixed working language, on the other hand, publish the selection notices in all official languages of the European Union.
Since June 2015, the working language of the EMA has been English, following a decision by the Administrative Director, supported by the Management Board.
However, EPSO has informed EMA that, for publication on its website, it still requires EMA to translate the vacancy notices into all official EU languages and to make these language versions available on the EMA website.
It should be noted that advertising vacancies in all official EU languages has a significant impact on the length of the selection procedure and is associated with higher costs.
3.24.14.
By the end of 2017, the agency had introduced electronic tendering for all procedures above the specified limit and email tendering for all procedures below the specified limit.
Although the Agency has not implemented e-invoicing or e-submission, in September 2017 the Agency signed an agreement with the European Commission on access to and use of e-submission and is awaiting a date from the European Commission Commission.
The Agency welcomes the Court's acknowledgment that EMA has implemented several important actions to respond to the Court's observations from the 2016 audit in relation to the management of advisory services.
For the two projects audited, it is acknowledged that additional budgetary resources were needed for clinical trials due to the complexity of the ecosystem of the stakeholders and the desired system to be built.
This change request was made and approved as part of the portfolio regulation. The project status was discussed in detail with the EMA Board of Directors.
3.24.18.
The Agency takes note of the remark.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/149 3.25.
EUROPEAN MONITORING CENTER FOR DRUGS AND DRUG ADDICTION (EMCDDA) INTRODUCTION 3.25.1.
The European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction (hereinafter ăthe CentreŇ, also ăEMCDDAŇ), based in Lisbon, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (194).
The main task of the observatory is to collect, analyze and disseminate information on drugs and drug addiction with the aim of compiling and publishing objective, reliable and comparable information at European level.
3.25.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Observatory (195).
Table Main figures for the Observatory 2017 Budget (million euros) (1) 16 Total staff at 31 December (2) 111 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Observatory.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 15 101 OPINION 3.25.3.
We have a) the annual accounts of the Observatory, comprising the annual accounts(196) and reports on the implementation of the budget (197) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.25.4. In our opinion, the annual accounts of the Observatory for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the assets and liabilities of the Observatory as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year ended on that date overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
(194) OJ.
(195) More information on the Observatory's competences and activities is available on its website www.emcdda.europa. eu available.
(196) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(197) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.25.6.
3.25.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.25.8.
At the Observatory, the Head of Administration/Corporate Services is the superior of the Accountant.
3.25.10.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (198) (199). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.25.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report on the Observatory's handling of data collection, validation and quality assurance (200).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.25.12.
(198) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(199) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(200) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/151 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations In 2012 the Observatory signed a framework contract for a maximum amount of 250 000 euro in order to be able to sign individual contracts.
At the end of 2015, payments made under this contract totaled 382 181 euros, ie exceeding the ceiling by 50%.
For two framework contracts with a maximum value of EUR 135 000 and EUR 650 000 respectively, an officer of the Center acted as authorizing officer by delegation in setting up the evaluation committee, taking decisions on awards and signing the contracts.
However, the delegation of powers granted by the authorizing officer was limited to EUR 130000 and framework contracts were not explicitly mentioned.
In 2016, payments amounting to 35,310 euros were made.
In its January 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the urgent need for the Observatory to improve the management of IT projects.
In particular, the IAS concluded that there was a lack of an overall long-term strategic vision for the IT systems supporting the Observatory's core operations, that the Observatory's IT project management methodology was only partially adapted to its needs, and that the method for managing system requirements is inadequate.
The Observatory and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan.
EN C 434/152 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE MONITORING CENTER 3.25.8. The Observatory considers that the current organizational structure has not compromised the independence of its accounting officers.
On the contrary, this independence has been consistently ensured in accordance with the relevant rules, in particular through the appointment of the accounting officers by the Observatory's Management Board, the functional reporting and accountability of these accounting officers to the Management Board and the careful observance of the rules on the segregation of duties of the various financial actors of the Observatory observatory.
In this context, the Observatory stands ready to act on the Court's recommendation, ensuring that the actions taken are proportionate to the size of the organization and the effectiveness and efficiency of its functioning are maintained.
3.25.9.
The Observatory also advertises its vacancy notices by way of standard dissemination via the members of its governing bodies, the national contact points involved in Reitox and the other EU agencies.
In addition, the Observatory's next competitions will also be published on the inter-agency job portal; the network of EU Agencies has developed this common online platform to increase public awareness of Agencies' recruitment processes.
In this context, the Observatory will examine the cost-benefit ratio of an additional publication on the EPSO portal.
The Observatory fulfills the requirements set in relation to e-procurement, in line with the relevant EU legal framework and the timetable established for the introduction of e-procurement in the EU.
Already in August 2015, the Observatory, in cooperation with the relevant services of the European Commission, set up the technical configuration/ICT tool needed for e-invoicing (and used by the European Commission's DG DIGIT to execute the framework contracts of the DG DIGIT provided).
In addition, in 2017 the Observatory planned the preparatory actions needed to be able to use the e-tendering and e-submission modules under the above-mentioned legal framework from October 2018.
Implementation of this plan is ongoing and the Observatory expects to meet this deadline without major problems.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/153 3.26.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF LARGE-SCALE IT SYSTEMS IN THE AREA OF FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE (EU-LISA) INTRODUCTION 3.26.1.
The European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (eu-LISA) (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) with headquarters in Tallinn and locations in Stra§burg and St. Johann im Pongau was established by established Regulation (EU) No 1077/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (201).
The central task of the agency is the operational management of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), the Visa Information System (VIS) and the European system for comparing fingerprints (Eurodac).
3.26.2.
The table gives the main figures for the agency (202).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff at 31 December (2) 152 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 82 144 OPINION 3.26.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (203) and reports on the implementation of the budget (204) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.26.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 286 of 1.11.2011, p. 1.
(202) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.eulisa.europa.eu.
(203) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(204) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/154 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.26.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.26.6.
3.26.7.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.26.8. In 2017, the Agency had difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of bidders in several medium-value procurement procedures.
3.26.9.
The Agency currently manages three standalone, non-integrated large-scale IT systems (SIS II, VIS and Eurodac), all of which process data related to the EU's Freedom, Security and Justice policy area.
This approach could prevent the Agency from achieving economies of scale and synergies between the different systems.
Current considerations to expand the Agency's mandate to manage several additional IT systems in the coming years underscore the increasing urgency of this issue.
The Agency, in consultation with the Commission and Member States, should prepare a detailed cost-benefit analysis to contribute to a discussion on the future development strategy for the systems.
3.26.10.
The project to construct a new building at the Strasbourg site was significantly delayed.
Although the agency had already paid full price for the construction works in 2016, at the end of 2017 these were still not completed and the progress reports on the works accepted covered only around 70% of the works.
Some of the Agency's staff have already moved into the new building, although the work is still ongoing.
The agency and the contractor blame each other for the delays. The contractor made financial claims against the agency in December 2017 and filed a lawsuit.
The agency is examining its own legal claim against the contractor (205).
3.26.11.
3.26.12.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common solution for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (206) (207). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
Consultation 3.26.13.
Due to the nature of its activity, the Agency uses consulting services mainly in connection with IT projects.
According to the Agency's records, IT projects in 2017 were implemented within budget and on schedule.
Exception reports were written for the few engineering maintenance projects that were slightly behind schedule.
(205) See also the Agency's 2017 annual accounts, section 2.1.5 'Events after the balance sheet date'. (206) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(207) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/155 3.26.14.
The Agency uses an outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, with around 90% of the related work being carried out by contractors.
There are three main framework agreements with three consortia, one for each system.
Payments made under these framework agreements in 2017 amounted to EUR 3 million for Eurodac, EUR 16 million for SIS II and EUR 13 million for VIS.
Although all phases of IT projects, from defining requirements and milestones to deploying new system components, are owned and controlled by the Agency, a model in which development activities for such sensitive IT systems are outsourced on this scale entails , significant risks of over-dependence on contractors.
This is all the more true in view of the limited number of potential contractors who can handle systems of this size and these requirements due to operational and safety-related reasons.
3.26.15.
At the same time, the small number of staff in key operational units, particularly in the ăApplication Management and Maintenance UnitŇ (AMM) poses a significant risk to the continuity of operations.
In the second half of 2017, the Head of Unit AMM also temporarily held the post of Head of the 'Operations Department' and the post of Head of the 'Operations and Infrastructure Unit', thus combining the top three management positions in the Operations Department, which further poses risks for continuity.
3.26.16.
The framework agreements concluded with the respective consortia for the operation of the main IT systems cover not only the normal maintenance but also the developmental maintenance work, the price of which cannot be calculated on the basis of the cost estimates attached to the framework agreements.
The agency calculates the prices for the individual contracts on the basis of a combination of a fixed price and an estimate of the time and resources involved, aiming at sound cost control.
For the VIS contract, the Agency also relied on the IFPUG(208) method, a standard method based on function point analysis for pricing development activities.
The Agency could consider using the IFPUG method for other systems as well.
NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.26.17.
The Agency made global budget commitments totaling 69.9 million euros to cover future expenditure on new tasks and IT systems, which were originally due to be entrusted to it in 2017 but for which the legal basis will either not be available by the end of the year (Eurodac Recast and Post-Dublin Allocation System) or recently adopted (Entry/Exit System Regulation of 30 November 2017).
The corresponding payment appropriations were reduced by two amending budgets of EUR 85.6 million, from EUR 153.3 million in the initially approved budget to EUR 85.6 million in the final adopted budget.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.26.18.
In December 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented an audit report on the control of procurement procedures at eu-LISA (209).
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.26.19. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(208) International Function Point Users Group. (209) The Court has not verified this audit work.
C 434/156 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2013 Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Ongoing ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations Court's observations According to the Agency's founding regulation, countries that associated with the implementation, application and further development of the Schengen acquis and Eurodac-related activities, contribute to the Agency's budget.
The agency concluded a framework agreement for EUR 2 million for procurement services provided by a contractor for training, coaching and learning offers from third parties (training offers).
In 2016, the Agency received and accepted goods worth EUR 2.8 million for which there were no budgetary commitments and legal obligations (contracts).
2015 (not under the control of the Agency) Pending 2015 2015 2016 Ongoing (not under the control of the Agency) Pending N/A
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/157 EN Court's observations The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded in its July 2016 audit report that the overall structure and practical implementation of the procedures ensure that the eu-LISA operates the IT systems SIS II, VIS and Eurodac in a way that enables the national authorities using these systems to exchange data continuously and without interruption.
The rate of committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year is high for Title II (Administrative Expenditure) at 5 million euros or 63% of committed appropriations (2015: 9 million euros or 50%).
In June 2015, the agency completed a €21.5 million construction contract for its Strasbourg premises.
At one of the Agency's Management Board meetings in 2016, the representative of the Commission raised the issue of rising maintenance costs.
For example, while the increasing costs can be explained by, among other things, the ongoing development and enhanced functionality of the systems, the Court identified procurement procedures where the Agency did not verify that the most cost-effective solution had been chosen.
For example, the agency purchased a new software license under a framework contract for €4.6 million without verifying whether the framework contractor, acting as an intermediary between the agency and potential software suppliers, had obtained the best price.
In May 2016, the Agency signed a €194 million framework agreement with a consortium for the further development and maintenance of the Visa Information System (VIS) and the Biometric Matching System (BMS) for a period of up to concerned six years.
Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
C 434/158 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations An external evaluation of the Agency was carried out on behalf of the Commission from March to December 2015; the results were presented in March 2016 in the final evaluation report.
The evaluators made 64 recommendations to further improve operational management; seven of these recommendations are considered to be of critical importance and eleven as very important.
The Agency has drawn up a plan to follow up on the recommendations; this plan is currently being implemented. Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) N/A
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/159 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.26.8.
For medium value procurement procedures, the Agency shall systematically publish ex ante notices on its website in accordance with Article 103(2) of the Financial Regulation.
In December 2017, the Commission presented two proposals for a regulation establishing a framework for interoperability between EU information systems (in the areas of borders and visas, as well as police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration).
In addition, as part of the revision of the Agency's mandate (in the final stages to be adopted), responsibility for the development of interoperability measures will be established, subject to the adoption of relevant legislative proposals.
The Agency has so far contributed its technical expertise and know-how to the discussions of the High Level Expert Group on Information Systems and Interoperability.
At the same time, a study (which is not yet completed) was carried out to get a clear picture of the future architecture of interoperable IT systems.
The study also includes an impact assessment and a migration and integration plan for the interoperability components of existing and future systems.
The Agency confirms the delay in the implementation of the construction project in Strasbourg.
The staff moved to the new office building after the preliminary acceptance of the work.
The construction work in the other building concerns the data center and is still ongoing.
The agency signed a contract with an external law firm to provide legal support for this construction contract.
She points out that she also publishes job vacancies on the EU Agencies Network website and on the ăEU TrainingŇ website.
However, this requires additional funding to accommodate EPSO's language regime, which requires vacancy notices to be translated into all EU languages (e.g. the cost of translating a vacancy notice into all EU languages is set at EUR 12 000 protected).
Regarding the electronic submission of tenders, the tool could not be used due to technical problems on the platform managed by the Commission's DG DIGIT; like other agencies, the agency was therefore unable to reliably use the platform in 2017.
Once the platform is stable, the Agency intends to use it for its procurement activities.
3.26.13.
The Agency takes note of the findings. The Agency aims to further reduce the number of projects that are behind schedule and has therefore started implementing measures to improve the planning process (see also finding 3.26.16).
According to the agency's key performance indicators (item 22) in the 2017 consolidated annual activity report, the actual value for the 'completed projects' compared to the parameters quality, cost and time is 8.79%, which is within the target of 10%.
In addition, in 2017 the project management methodology of eu-LISA was adjusted and updated to bring it more in line with the PRINCE2 strategy and methodology.
An Enterprise Project Management tool was also recently introduced to enable better reporting and resource allocation across the agency.
3.26.14.
The Agency confirms the high involvement of external contractors in IT projects (operational and organizational).
This high outsourcing rate is directly related to the Commission Communication COM(2013) 519 on the financial and human resources planning for the decentralized agencies in the period 2014-2020.
When the agency was founded in 2012, the establishment plan did not provide enough posts for the scope of the tasks assigned to it.
In addition, the scope of the agency's tasks has increased significantly from 2013; however, their requests for additional staff were rejected and the Agency had to reduce staff (a total of seven posts) as requested in the Commission Communication.
In order to ensure a proper separation of tasks, the contractors involved in quality assurance do not provide any external support services for the operational management of large IT systems.
The Agency confirms this exceptional situation, in which one staff member had to take on additional duties on a temporary basis.
The appointment was inevitable due to the long absence of the head of the ăOperations DepartmentŇ and the ongoing recruitment process for the remaining vacant managerial position.
To remedy the situation, the Agency appointed another staff member, the Head of the Security Unit, as interim Head of the Operations and Infrastructure Unit until the newly hired manager took office on 1 July 2018.
EN C 434/160 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.26.16.
System developments can only be described in summary form when the tender for framework contracts is initiated, which is why specific developments must be negotiated as soon as the requirements are known (e.g. if the legal basis of the systems changes).
As part of the review of its procurement strategy, the Agency will look at procurement options, including the adoption of the IFPUG methodology to reduce reliance on a single contractor for further developments.
The action plan for the 2017 audit of procurement procedures carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) includes elements relevant to this comment.
3.26.17.
The scenario and the associated risks were already identified in 2016 and included in the Agency's 2017 estimate of revenue and expenditure.
Due to delays in adopting the legal basis of the new tasks, the Board was regularly briefed throughout the year on the risks and constraints of adopting major global commitments.
3.26.18.
The agency confirms this information.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/161 3.27.
EUROPEAN JUDICIAL COOPERATION AGENCY (EUROJUST) INTRODUCTION 3.27.1.
Council Decision 2002/187/JHA(210) established the European Judicial Cooperation Unit (hereafter ăEurojustŇ), based in The Hague, with a view to stepping up the fight against serious organized crime.
3.27.2.
The table contains the main figures for Eurojust (211).
Table Main figures for Eurojust 2017 budget (million euro) 48 Total staff at 31 December (1) 242 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 44 245 OPINION 3.27.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of Eurojust, comprising the annual accounts (212) and reports on the implementation of the budget (213) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.27.4.
In our opinion, the financial statements of Eurojust for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the net assets and financial position of the entity as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 63 of 03/06/2002, p. 1.
(211) More information on Eurojust's competences and activities is available at www.eurojust.europa.eu.
(212) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(213) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/162 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.27.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.27.6.
3.27.7.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.27.8. Eurojust publishes vacancies on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.27.9. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/163 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations The Court's observations In its 2010 report, the Court noted that it was considering redefining the respective roles and responsibilities between the Administrative Director and the College of Eurojust should be drawn to avoid the overlapping of responsibilities currently resulting from the founding regulation.
At 6446530 euros or 40% (2015: 1.6 million euros or 22%), the rate of commitments carried over to the following financial year was high for Title II (expenditure on support activities).
These transfers of appropriations related mainly to works extending beyond the end of the year and purchases commissioned in preparation for Eurojust's move to new premises in 2017 (4 867 482 euros).
Year 2011 2016 The new Eurojust regulation is still being examined by the legislator. Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) Ongoing (not under Eurojust's control) N/A
EN C 434/164 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM EUROJUST 3.27.8. The statement that Eurojust does not use EPSO for recruitment processes is correct.
This approach stems from financial constraints as EPSO requires vacancy notices to be translated into all 24 official EU languages.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/165 3.28.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT CO-OPERATION (EUROPOL) INTRODUCTION 3.28.1.
The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEuropolŇ), based in The Hague, was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of the European Parliament and of the Council (214), which adopted Decision Council Regulation 2009/371/JHA (215) repeals and replaces.
The purpose of the Agency is to monitor the activities of the police and other law enforcement authorities of the Member States and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime, terrorism and forms of crime affecting two or more Member States which violate a common interest which is the subject of a policy of the Union is to support and strengthen.
3.28.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (216).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 118 Total staff at 31 December (1) 804 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 104 737 OPINION 3.28.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (217) and reports on the implementation of the budget (218) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.28.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 135 of 24.05.2016, p. 53.
L 121 of 15.05.2009, p. 37.
(216) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.europol.europa.eu.
(217) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(218) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/166 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.28.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.28.6.
3.28.7.
COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.28.8. The agency publishes vacancies on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.28.9.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report on procurement in the European Police Office in 2017(219).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.28.10.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years. (219) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/167 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations As in previous years, the rate of carry-over of commitments for Title II (Administrative Expenditure) was EUR 3.5 million and 39% (2015: 4.2 million euros or 41%) high.
These carry-overs relate mainly to expenditure incurred in 2016 for the Office's headquarters, which will only be invoiced by the host country in 2017 (2 million euro).
Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) N/A
EN C 434/168 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.28.8.
Europol employs over 220 liaison officers from EU Member States and third countries and organizations.
The common working language at Europol is English. Therefore, Europol's internal language rules, adopted by the Management Board, stipulate that, unless otherwise agreed, recruitment procedures are to be carried out in English.
For this reason, Europol's vacancy notices are published in English.
Europol has an effective and transparent recruitment process with a 0% vacancy rate at the end of 2017. In the 89 recruitment procedures conducted in 2017, there were an average of 58 applicants per selection procedure.
In addition to the English version, a translation into the official EU languages is required for publication on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
Due to the high number of vacancy notices per year, translation into the official EU languages would entail high costs and lengthen the procedures.
Europol focuses budget spending on operational needs, therefore translation of vacancy notices into all official EU languages, including publication through EPSO, is only done in specific cases (e.g. Executive Director(s)/Deputy Executive Directors). .
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/169 3.29.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS (FRA) INTRODUCTION 3.29.1.
The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăFRAUŇ), based in Vienna, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 168/2007 (220).
3.29.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (221).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 23 Total staff at 31 December (1) 108 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (222) and reports on the implementation of the budget (223) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.29.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 53 of 22.2.2007, p. 1.
(221) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.fra.europa.eu.
(222) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(223) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/170 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.29.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.29.6.
3.29.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.29.8.
At the agency, the head of Corporate Services is the manager of the accounting officer.
In 2017, the agency encountered difficulties in obtaining studies due to an unrealistic market assessment.
At least three open tenders were unsuccessful, as the agency only received offers of the required quality that significantly exceeded the specified maximum contract value.
3.29.10.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common solution for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (224) (225). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.29.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service carried out an audit on governance and ethics at the Agency(226).
3.29.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance in 2013-2017 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (227).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.29.13. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(224) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(225) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(226) The Court has not verified this audit work.
(227) The Court has not verified this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/171 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations The formal delegations (or sub-delegations of authorizing authority) of authorizing officers (or authorizing officers by delegation) do not always correspond to the authorizing rights for ABAC module transactions Workf low match.
At 5.2 million euros or 68% (2015: 5.7 million euros or 70%), the rate of commitments carried over to the following financial year was high for Title III (operational expenditure).
This is primarily due to the nature of the activities, which include the funding of studies that extend over several months, often also over the turn of the year.
The Agency may consider introducing differentiated budget appropriations to better reflect the multiannual nature of activities and unavoidable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
Year 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Completed Ongoing
EN C 434/172 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.29.8.
Following the reorganization of the Agency, which will be completed by the end of 2018, the position of Accounting Officer will come under the administrative responsibility of the Director, and he will report directly to the Management Board (as has always been the case).
In order to maintain existing synergies, the Accounting Officer will continue to work closely with the Corporate Services department.
3.29.9.
All studies concerned were put out to public tender and were therefore accessible to all economic operators.
The extensive studies carried out by the FRA are quite unique in the EU, both in terms of subject matter and in that they have to be carried out in all EU Member States.
In addition, the agency has limited funds at its disposal for these measures.
However, for future calls for tender of this nature, the Agency will consider conducting market research, reviewing the technical requirements where necessary and reassessing the priority of the studies to be conducted where possible.
Nevertheless, this problem would be much easier to solve if more funds were available for operational expenditure.
The agency started introducing such systems in 2018; these will be available within the set deadline.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/173 3.30.
EUROPEAN BORDER GUARD AND PRICES AGENCY (FRONTEX) INTRODUCTION 3.30.1.
The European Border and Coast Guard Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăFrontexŇ) was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/1624 of the European Parliament and of the Council (228) (ănew founding regulationŇ), which amends Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 of the Council (229).
It was expanded Ń while retaining the abbreviation ăFrontexŇ and the seat in Warsaw Ń on the basis of the European Agency for Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States.
With the new founding regulation, the mandate of the agency is extended; in addition, the agency is entrusted with the task of ensuring integrated border management at the external borders at the European level in order to efficiently control the crossing of the external borders.
This includes addressing the migratory pressures and potential future threats at these borders, while contributing to the fight against serious crime with a cross-border dimension, in order to maintain a high level of internal security within the Union, with full respect for fundamental rights and respect of freedom of movement in this space.
3.30.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (230).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 281 Total staff at 31 December (1) 526 (1) Actual staff employed by the Agency, including officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
More posts were foreseen in the 2017 final establishment plan: 352 posts for officials and temporary agents and 303 posts for contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (231) and reports on the implementation of the budget (232) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.30.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 251 of 16.9.2016, p. 1.
L 349 of 25.11.2004, p. 1.
(230) More information about the competences and activities of the Agency is available on its website www.frontex.europa.eu.
(231) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(232) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/174 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.30.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.30.6.
Note 3.30.7.
The Agency's expenditure on grants saw a significant increase from €123 million (2016) to €167 million (2017).
Unlike in previous years, the Agency did not subject the reimbursements of grant-related expenditure in 2017 to ex-post verifications.
She considers that the ex-ante checks carried out before reimbursement have been improved and now - once they reach a certain level - offer the necessary certainty.
However, the Court has consistently reported since 2014 that cooperating countries often under-declare the expenditure they declare, as confirmed again in this year's audit (see paragraphs 3.30.12 to 3.30.13).
3.30.8.
In 2016, we recommended that the Agency conduct an in-depth analysis to identify the most appropriate funding mechanism (233).
In this context, the Court notes that, at the end of 2017, the Management Board decided to increase the use of unit costs instead of reimbursement of actual costs for operational activities.
At the same time, a pilot project was launched in 2018 to determine the unit costs for resources sent by cooperating states.
In addition, in June 2017, the Management Board approved a new organizational structure for the Agency, to be operational from 2018, which includes the creation of a new Inspection and Control Office reporting directly to the Executive Director and the Management Board, in order to adapt the previous organization to the new mandate ( see paragraph 3.30.9).
3.30.9.
In 2016, the agency's mandate was significantly expanded in response to the migratory crisis facing the Union.
The Agency's budget increased by 75% in 2016 and the budget for 2017 was again 21% higher than last year.
The workforce was increased by 18% in 2016 and by a further 43% compared to the previous year.
The systems and procedures are still being adapted to the new mandate and circumstances.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion and should be read in the light of the challenges the Agency has faced.
COMMENTS ON THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF OPERATIONS 3.30.10.
Following an open call for tenders, the Agency received four offers for ferry services for the transportation of migrants within Greece.
After checking the selection criteria, three offers were retained and one was excluded.
The only award criterion was the price.
In April 2017, the agency signed a framework agreement for 2 million euros over three years with the carrier that had offered the lowest price.
However, the contractor's transport capacity was seasonally limited and it was struggling to fulfill the contract, leading the agency to terminate the contract at the end of 2017.
To ensure continuity of service, the Agency signed a new framework agreement for the remainder of the period for 1.8 million euros with the second-ranked bidder in November 2017, having offered the second-lowest price.
It did not negotiate the terms of this replacement contract with the second and third-ranked bidders, but instead signed the new contract based on the original bid submitted by the second-ranked bidder.
The outright award of the replacement contract was irregular because the original procurement procedure had been completed and there was no negotiated procedure to agree on the terms of the contract pending the completion of a new open procedure.
No payments were made for this replacement order in 2017.
3.30.11.
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the event of an external competition, temporary agents will only be recruited at grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (234).
In 2017, the Agency recruited two staff (2016: 14) at AST senior grades.
(233) Special Report No 12/2016 'Agencies' use of grants: not always appropriate or proven to be effective'. (234) Article 53(2) of the Staff Regulations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/175 COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
In 2017, the Agency provided financial assistance to the Icelandic Coast Guard in connection with the deployment of an aircraft in Greece.
Before reimbursement of the expenditure declared by Iceland, the Agency required invoices as evidence for one category of expenditure declared.
Although the invoices were never presented, the agency reimbursed around 440,000 euros.
In this case, the ex-ante verification was therefore ineffective.
3.30.13.
The Agency also co-funded the deployment of an aircraft used by the Spanish Civil Guard.
In the absence of supporting documents for the costs claimed for inspection and maintenance work, the Agency reimbursed 430,000 euros on the basis of an average cost per flight hour.
These average costs were calculated using cost caps used in contracts between the Spanish authorities and private contractors for inspection and maintenance work.
There is a risk that higher costs were reimbursed than were actually incurred.
3.30.14.
Although the agency moved into its current offices in 2014, it has still not put in place a comprehensive contingency plan approved by the Board.
NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.30.15.
The Agency again canceled a large amount of committed appropriations carried over from the previous year for the reimbursement of the expenditure of States participating in joint operations, namely 7.7 million euros or 16.5% (2016: 5.6 million euros or 17 .6%).
This shows that the cooperating states had again overestimated the expenses to be reimbursed by the agency.
Although appropriations carried over for joint actions had to be canceled for two consecutive years, in 2017 the Agency carried over an amount of 9.6 million euros from other budget lines to joint actions, again carrying over an amount of 40.5 million euros to the following financial year.
Joint actions account for 69% of the total canceled appropriations in 2017 (11.1 million euros) and 46% of the total appropriations carried over to 2018 (87.6 million euros).
3.30.16.
In 2017, 66.5 million euros were available for return campaigns. However, fewer actions were carried out than funds were available.
The agency therefore repaid the Commission 13.5 million euros or 20.3% (2016: 23 million euros or 37.5%).
In addition, the Agency repaid 4 million euros of appropriations entered in Title I of the budget (staff expenditure) due to the inability to recruit as many new staff in 2017 as planned.
3.30.17.
The Agency's original budget for 2017 included €8.8 million for the mandatory operational financial reserve to fund rapid border interventions and return operations (235).
However, in September and again in October 2017, the Agency each transferred EUR 1.9 million (total EUR 3.8 million) from the reserve to its operational budget to fund other activities.
3.30.18.
After making transfers from other budget lines and preparing an amending budget, the appropriations entered in the reserve amounted to 24.7 million euro or 8.1% of the initial budget.
However, the agency used the reserve mainly to fund standard operations (8.4 million euros) and to fund a remote air surveillance project (drones, 7 million euros) for which it had budgeted only 1.1 million euros.
The assessment and use of non-prescribed reserves is not compatible with the budgetary principle of the specialty and impairs the budgetary transparency.
REMARKS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.30.19. The Agency publishes vacancies on its own website and other media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.30.20.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common solution for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (236) (237). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017 the Agency had introduced e-invoicing and e-tendering for certain procedures, but not e-submission. (235) Pursuant to Article 75(13) of its founding regulation. (236) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(237) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
EN C 434/176 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 FOLLOW-UP TO PREVIOUS YEARS' COMMENTS 3.30.21.
However, the documents submitted by the cooperating states to support the expenditure claimed are not always sufficient.
In addition, audit certificates were not required, although this is recommended for grants above certain ceilings in the Rules of Application of the EU Financial Regulation (1).
Given the large and ever-increasing number of grant agreements and the magnitude of the associated expenditure that must be verified and reimbursed by the Agency, the question arises as to whether more efficient and less expensive forms of funding could be used.
The contributions of the Schengen associated countries (Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway) need to be calculated more precisely in order to better comply with the legislation(3).
The ex-post audit carried out by the Agency in Iceland in October 2015 identified irregular payments totaling 1.4 million euros related to the write-off of a vessel involved in seven joint operations over the period 2011-2015 .
The Icelandic Coast Guard had applied for reimbursement of the ship's depreciation costs even though its useful life had already expired according to the agency's guidelines.
Although the Agency is entitled to recover irregular payments made within the last five years, it has announced that it will only recover payments made since January 2015, amounting to 0.6 million euros.
C 434/178 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations The Internal Security Fund was established for the period 2014-2020.
It consists of two instruments: the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas, and the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, worth EUR 2.8 billion (external borders and visas) and EUR 1 billion (police cooperation). ) to finance missions.
Under the Instrument for Financial Support for External Borders and Visas, the Commission reimburses Member States for the cost of purchasing equipment such as vehicles or ships and operating costs such as fuel or maintenance costs.
The Agency also reimburses such costs to participants in joint actions.
There is therefore a risk of double funding (4) which is not addressed.
States participating in border operations declare the costs incurred on the basis of cost claim forms, which include 'fixed costs' (depreciation and maintenance costs), 'variable expenses' (mainly fuel) and 'operational costs' (mainly compensation and other crew member expenses).
Reported costs are based on actual values and comply with national standards. The approaches of the participating states consequently differ from one another, which leads to a particularly complex system for all those involved.
In our special report 12/2016, we recommended that the agencies use simplified cost options whenever appropriate to avoid such inefficiencies (5).
The agency's founding regulation, which was in force until October 5, 2016, provided for the financing of joint repatriation operations carried out with participating states.
However, from January to October 2016, the agency funded national return campaigns with an amount of 3.6 million euros.
These payments are illegal.
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the event of an external competition, temporary agents shall only be recruited at grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (6).
In 2016, the Agency recruited 14 staff at AST senior grades.
With 6.4 million euros or 43% (2015: 3.2 million euros or 38%) for Title II (administrative expenditure) and with 67.3 million euros or 37% (2015: 40.2 million euros or 35%) in Title III (operational expenditure) there was an increase in the rate of commitments carried over to the following financial year.
The Agency may consider introducing differentiated budget appropriations to better reflect delays that inevitably arise between legal obligations, contract execution and activities and the corresponding payments.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/179 EN Court's observations The cancellation rate of commitments carried over from 2015 was high for Title III (operational expenditure) at 6.4 million euro or 16 % due to 2015 costs , which had yet to be reimbursed to the participating states in 2016, had been overestimated.
Within the framework of the expanded mandate of the agency, return actions are given high priority; in the agency's budget for 2016, funds totaling 63 million euros were allocated for return campaigns.
However, 23 million euros or 37.5% of this amount was returned to the EU budget as fewer return operations were carried out than planned.
The significant delay in the award procedure for a framework contract worth 50 million euros for the chartering of aircraft and related services for Frontex repatriations contributed to this situation and continues to have a negative impact on the number of repatriations organized by the Agency.
The initiation of this award procedure was scheduled for March 2016 and had still not taken place by the end of the year.
On 22 December 2015, the Commission and the Agency, as co-beneficiaries and coordinator of three other co-beneficiaries (EASO, IOM and UNHCR) (7), signed a grant agreement for €5.5 million for regional support to protection-based migration management in the Western Balkans and Turkey, the effective from January 1, 2016 for a period of three years.
However, the cooperation agreements with the three partners (legal obligations) for 3.4 million euros were only signed between August and November 2016.
In the case of two of these agreements, the commitments – which should have been used to decommit funds before legal commitments were made – were only made in October and December 2016.
In addition, the commitments amounted to 1.2 million euro and only covered the pre-financing payments.
Such action constitutes a breach of the provisions of the Financial Regulation on budgetary management; moreover, the late signing of the agreements led to uncertainty as to the operational cooperation between the partners.
The Agency's 2016 establishment plan provided for 275 official and temporary agent posts (8). At the end of 2016, only 197 or 71% of these posts were filled, mainly because 50 new posts were only created in October 2016 and recruitment has yet to be completed.
The Agency regularly encounters difficulties in recruiting staff with the required profiles, partly due to the correction coefficient applied to salaries (66.7%). Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
C 434/180 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations As a result of the extension of its mandate, the Agency's staff will more than double from 365 in 2016 to 1 000 in 2020(9).
This increase was not based on a sound estimate of needs.
The agency is currently analyzing, together with the Commission and the host country, the possibilities for covering this need.
Year 2016 2016 Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) n/a Completed (1) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 (OJ
(2) Pursuant to Article 3(4) of Regulation (EC) No. 2007/2004, co-financing of joint actions by the Agency is limited to grants.
(3) Agreement between the European Community on the one hand and the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the other hand to determine the modalities of the participation of these states in the European Agency for operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the European Union (OJ
(4) The Court had already pointed out this risk in paragraph 39 and recommendation 4 of its Special Report No 15/2014 ăThe External Borders Fund contributed to more financial solidarityă, but there is a need to improve measurement of results and create additional EU added valueŇ.
(5) Recommendation 1 of the Court's Special Report No 12/2016 'Agencies' use of grants: not always appropriate or proven to be effective'.
(6) Article 53(2) of the Staff Regulations.
(7) European Asylum Support Office (Malta), International Organization for Migration (Belgrade) and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (Geneva).
(8) In addition, 192 posts for contract agents and seconded national experts have been authorised.
(9) Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Border and Coast Guard and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, Regulation (EC) No 863/2007 and Decision 2005/267 /EC of the Council (COM(2015) 671 final Ń 2015/0310(COD)).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/181 RESPONSE OF THE AGENCY OBSERVATIONS ON THE LEGALITY AND REGULARITY OF TRANSACTIONS 3.30.10.
After Frontex decided to terminate the contract, it was necessary to ensure the continuity of the services pending the selection of a new contractor.
Considering the limited market for the required services in the region (extremely small number of economic operators), the most appropriate solution was to enter into a 'bridging agreement' with the company selected as the second-best provider had cut off.
In this case, therefore, it is not a matter of continuing a tendering procedure that has already been completed.
In making its decision, the agency took into account that the company already had experience in providing ferry services to Frontex and the feedback on this was extremely positive; the offered ferry fulfilled all minimum technical requirements.
The contractor agreed to provide the services on the same terms requested and offered in the original tender.
An exemption agreement was signed in November 2017, explaining the reasons for this decision.
The bridging agreement was signed by both parties in December 2017 and came into effect in January 2018.
The use of price as the sole criterion had been carefully considered and was based on Frontex's experience in the past two years of contracting out ferries for readmission operations between the Greek islands and Turkey.
Due to the market limitations in the geographic region - extremely small number of operators with a limited offer of ferries - it was not appropriate to apply qualitative award criteria.
The services requested by Frontex were short voyages between Greek islands and Turkey to transport returnees under the EU-Turkey Readmission Agreement, ensuring that these operations were carried out in a safe environment and in full respect of the fundamental rights were implemented.
In line with the last sentence of Article 31(2) of the Staff Regulations (ăIn order to meet specific needs of the institutions, the recruitment of officials may also take into account the labor market situation in the Union.Ň), Frontex took into account the recruitment to higher AST grades the labor market conditions (= low correction coefficient compared to the professional experience required).
This decision was fully in line with the establishment plans (which form part of the budget) and had never been questioned by the budgetary authorities.
Since March 2017, Frontex has not recruited external applicants at grades higher than AST 4 grade.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
The cost of inspection/maintenance work is defined as “the cost of all inspection/maintenance work throughout the lifetime of the resource (...).
Rate based on data provided by the manufacturer or service center to the agency using the productŇ.
This means that the hourly rate can take the form of a cost declaration from the beneficiaries, based either on the manufacturer's estimates, or on a price calculated on the basis of actual costs incurred in previous years, or on a cost estimate using reference data for similar assets if the asset is new and no data is available.
Invoices (or equivalent booking documents due to the volume of data) can only be provided if the hourly price is based on the costs actually incurred in the reference year.
However, the beneficiary also has the possibility to set an hourly rate based on average reference prices if in fact no invoices have been issued.
This was the case for the payment selected, with the Icelandic Coast Guard providing Frontex with an estimate of hourly maintenance costs.
The documents submitted by the Icelandic Coast Guard incorporate the results of ex-post controls carried out by a Frontex ex-post control team during a visit to the maintenance center in Iceland in 2015; the team had checked the documents submitted by the Icelandic Coast Guard and used as the basis for their calculation methods.
Therefore, Frontex considers that the document submitted by Iceland provides sufficient grounds to authorize the issuance.
The total amount of an hourly rate for all inspection/maintenance work of an aircraft with fixed wings results from three contracts with special regulations: Ń Maintenance of the engines Ń The signed contract provided for a maximum amount of 9 010 475.50 EUR; however, payments are based on the hourly rate for servicing an engine.
The Guardia Civil charges Frontex the hourly rate for engine maintenance in accordance with the contractual specifications.
If less time is spent servicing the engines, the overall cap will not be reached.
Therefore, in this case, it is not the total value of the contract that is relevant, but the hourly rate.
EN C 434/182 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Ń General maintenance work Ń According to the provisions of the relevant contract, this is an all-in-one price contract (not a framework contract) with monthly invoices for each contractor's work .
The Agency understands that upon termination of the contract, the Guardia Civil will pay the total amount specified in the contract.
The amount of an hourly price is calculated by dividing this total cost by the number of flight hours.
Ń Supply of spare parts Ń According to the terms of the contract, as above, this is a contract for a total price (not a framework contract), with monthly invoices foreseen for the specific work carried out by the contractor.
The Agency understands that upon termination of the contract, the Guardia Civil will pay the total amount specified in the contract.
For the above reasons, the Agency cannot agree with the Court's risk assessment, since the amounts reimbursed to the Guardia Civil, estimated on the basis of a contract for a total price, would ultimately correspond to the amounts reimbursed on the basis of actual invoices.
The applicable concept for the measures to ensure operation, the applicable strategy and the resulting emergency plans were developed and (annually) updated on the basis of the legal framework and structure that were in force until the end of 2016.
Due to the expanded mandate and the corresponding new structure, the emergency plans in particular are being revised by the responsible bodies , since the organizational changes also require a complete revision of the underlying processes.
NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.30.15.
The main challenge relates to the availability of commitment appropriations during a given year.
Additionally, to avoid the risk of high cancellations, in the fourth quarter of 2016 Frontex contacted beneficiaries to submit their final payment requests for operations that ended in the first half of this year and to provide Frontex with precise estimates of the costs for current deployments (December 2016) or planned deployments (January 2017) as part of the operational activities in 2016.
The main objective of these calls was to identify any overestimates, reduce the corresponding SFD allocations and recycle the funds in 2016.
Despite some positive results from this action, transfers of appropriations were still relatively high.
Consequently, despite a proper estimate of the actual financial needs, Frontex needed additional funds to ensure the financial coverage of the operations in autumn 2016, since the funds set aside from the completed and ongoing operations were not available at that time.
The Agency has developed a simplified funding scheme, which will be implemented from the 2018 operational cycle onwards, in which unit costs are applied to a significantly higher extent for grants of up to one year; not only is the Agency stepping up its monitoring of grant processing, but it is also striving to reduce the cancellation of transfers.
Return Despite the repayment of funds to the Commission, the Agency's main objective related to return operations was achieved: it provided technical and operational support to Member States for the implementation of return operations and implemented specific pre-return activities ( for identification of returnees, training/education, exchange of knowledge between Member States, etc.).
In 2017, the number of return operations coordinated by Frontex increased significantly: the number of migrants in an irregular situation increased from 10,700 in 2016 to 14,200 in 2017, with an increase of 47% compared to the previous year.
This corresponds to a share of almost 10% of the total number of EU migrants actually returned to third countries (in 2014 the corresponding value was 2%).
Recruitment The repayments of appropriations for staff expenditure were mainly due to the difficulties and related delays in the recruitment process: lengthy procedures, long notice periods, insufficient number of applicants and geographical imbalance due to a low weighting.
Nevertheless, the agency considers it a success that over 250 new employees were hired and trained within a year.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/183 3.30.17.
For the agency, 2017 was the first year of implementation of the new EGKW regulation.
for operational measures in its budget to finance RABIT and return operations .
At least one quarter of the reserve should remain available by October 1st of each year to meet any needs that may arise through the end of the year.
The operational reserve requirement was introduced to allow the Agency to have a certain reserve at any time during the year to conduct rapid border interventions and to cover the initial costs of such rapid interventions.
The European Parliament had amended the original text of the ECR regulation proposed by the Commission to add that as of October 1st only a quarter of the reserve must remain available for the remaining three months of the year.
The EGKW regulation is silent on what should happen to the remaining three quarters of the reserve after October 1st; this point is unclear.
The first transfer, at the end of September, was intended to fund increased air and sea operations and the acquisition of its own air surveillance services; the second transmission took place after October 1st.
The Board of Directors was informed of transfers in the monthly report.
The Agency believes that legislators should provide clarity.
The non-mandatory reserve had already been envisaged during the preparations for the Single Programming Document (SPD) 2017-2019.
In accordance with Article 75 Paragraph 3ff of the EGKW-Regulation, the preparation of the SPD and the revenue and expenditure estimation started in year N-2 and was completed in the late autumn of year N-1.
The EGKW regulation came into force in October 2016.
The Agency had to plan the detailed annual work program 2017 (as part of the SPD 2017-2019) throughout 2016 without a final result of the deliberations on the EGKW regulation and thus without a clearly defined legal basis.
By the end of 2016, the SPD 2017-2019 was already finalized and awaiting approval by the Management Board, which fully supported the creation of the non-mandatory reserve in view of the transition to the European Border and Coast Guard.
The Commission stated in its Opinion on SPD 2017-2019, (C92016)8722, in paragraph 63: “The Commission welcomes that contingency planning has become a guiding principle for the preparation of the annual work program and that the Agency accounts for almost 10% of its operational budget intended for so-called 'operative flexibility' (...).
In this context, the Commission invites the Agency to establish within its budget two separate reserves, the first being fully in line with Article 75(13) of the ECT Regulation and the second allowing the Agency to maintain operational flexibility to respond to emergencies , which are not emergency responses.Ň REMARKS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.30.19.
As the Agency publishes its vacancies in English, while EPSO requires translations into all EU languages, given the large number of vacancies, this would mean that costs would increase significantly and that the process of filling vacancies could be delayed.
Frontex disseminates the information about vacancies through other channels, ie the network of EU Agencies, Management Board, Permanent Representations, Eurobrussels and social media.
After the signing of an agreement with the Commission (DG DIGIT), the instrument will be used for the first time.
The formal deadline for this instrument was set at the end of October 2018 in accordance with Article 90 Paragraph 2 of the procurement directive, which the Commission applies to the agencies accordingly; Frontex will meet this deadline.
EN C 434/184 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies funded under MFF heading 4 Ń Global Europe 3.31.
EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION (ETF) INTRODUCTION 3.31.1.
The European Training Foundation (hereinafter ăthe FoundationŇ, also ăETFŇ), based in Turin, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 (238) (Recast Regulation (EC) No 1339/2008 (239)). .
To this end, she assists the Commission in the implementation of various vocational training programmes.
3.31.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the foundation (240).
Table Main figures of the Foundation 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 Total staff at 31 December (1) 125 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 21 130 OPINION 3.31.3.
We have a) the Foundation's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (241) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (242) for the financial year ended December 31, 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions on which these annual accounts are based under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.31.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Foundation for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Foundation as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 131 of 23.5.1990, p. 1.
L 354 of 31.12.2008, p. 82.
(240) More information on the Foundation's competences and activities is available on its website www.etf.europa.eu.
(241) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(242) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/185 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.31.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.31.6.
3.31.7.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.31.8.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report on the 'Progress monitoring of Torino Process vocational education and training in the Foundation' (243). The Foundation prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.31.9. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(243) The Court has not verified this audit work.
C 434/186 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations In 2016 an external evaluation of the Foundation was carried out on behalf of the Commission.
This was the first step in a cross-sectional evaluation of the four agencies working in the field of employment, social affairs and inclusion(1).
The evaluators concluded that the significant restructuring of the Foundation since 2011 has not had any significant negative impact and is mostly positively assessed by internal and external stakeholders, in particular in terms of strategy and effectiveness.
The governance structure of the Foundation was considered to be efficient and effective.
The evaluation also underlines that the Foundation has continued to improve its monitoring capacity since 2011, but that it still needs to present its activities and achievements more clearly.
A standardization and simplification of the indicators within a single intervention logic as well as the use of a common terminology throughout the Foundation would contribute to an improvement.
The foundation developed a plan to implement the evaluators' recommendations.
Already in its report on the Foundation's 2011 accounts, the Court stressed that the situation regarding the Foundation's premises is unsatisfactory and that there is a risk that the Foundation will not be able to continue its activities on a continuous basis.
The situation has remained unchanged since the consortium in charge of managing the building complex, which occupied part of the premises in the complex itself, was liquidated in 2011, leaving the corresponding rooms empty.
The Member State where the Foundation is located urgently needs to find a solution to this problem.
Adequate premises are guaranteed in the headquarters agreement until 2027.
Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/N/A) N/A 2016 Completed (1) The other agencies to be evaluated are the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin), the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) and the European Center for the Development of Vocational Training (Thessaloniki).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/187 REPLY OF THE FOUNDATION The Foundation takes note of the Court's report.
EN C 434/188 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies funded under MFF heading 5 Ń Administration 3.32.
EURATOM SUPPLY AGENCY INTRODUCTION 3.32.1.
The Euratom Supply Agency (hereafter ăthe AgencyŇ), based in Luxembourg, was set up in 1958(244).
Council Decision 2008/114/EC, Euratom(245) replaced the previously applicable Statutes of the Agency.
The Agency's main task is to ensure the regular supply of nuclear materials, in particular nuclear fuel, to EU users according to the principle of equal access to sources of supply through a common supply policy.
3.32.2.
From 2008 up to and including 2011, the Agency was not allocated its own budget to fund its activities.
From 2012 onwards, the Commission provided the agency with its own budget. However, this only covers a small part of their expenses.
3.32.3.
The table gives the main figures for the agency (246).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 0.1 Total staff at 31 December (1) 17 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 0,1 17 OPINION 3.32.4.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (247) and reports on the implementation of the budget (248) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.32.5. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
(244) OJ.
L 41 of 15.2.2008, p. 15.
(246) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website http://ec.europa.eu/euratom/index.html.
(247) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(248) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/189 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.32.6. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.32.7.
EN C 434/190 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/191 Self-funded agencies 3.33.
COMMUNITY PLANT VARIETY OFFICE (CPVO) INTRODUCTION 3.33.1.
The Community Plant Variety Office (hereinafter ădas AmtŇ, also ăCPVOŇ), located in Angers, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 (249).
3.33.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the office (250).
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) 16 Total staff at 31 December (1) 51 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 16 44 OPINION 3.33.3. We have a) the Office's annual accounts, comprising the annual accounts(251) and the reports on the implementation of the budget(252) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.33.4.
In our opinion, the annual accounts of the Office for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the position of assets and liabilities of the Office as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 227 of 01.09.1994, p. 1.
(250) More information on the competences and activities of the Office is available on its website www.cpvo.europa.eu.
(251) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(252) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/192 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.33.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.33.6.
3.33.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.33.8.
In 2017, procurement and grant award procedures were not adequately documented.
For the procurement of services by means of low and medium value contracts, there were inconsistencies in the published contract documents, there were no records explaining the pre-selection of candidates in low value procurement procedures, and the Office did not produce evaluation reports for the procurement procedures for hiring temporary workers.
In addition, the award criteria were not clearly stated.
With regard to the granting of grants, the risk assessments were not adequate and the expert reports were not signed.
According to its Financial Regulations (253), the Office should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures.
The Office had not implemented any of these tools by the end of 2017.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.33.10. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(253) Article 74 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/193 ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations The Office uses electronic payments for the majority of its payments.
The accounting officer or his two deputies can sign the payments electronically.
As of 31 December 2015, the outstanding fees (mainly annual fees) for more than 90 days amounted to EUR 240 766(1).
The Office did not take full advantage of the opportunities provided for in its Financial Regulation to collect outstanding fees, such as foreclosure (2). At 788 540 euros or 40% (2015: 395 882 euros or 28%), the rate of commitments carried over to the following financial year was high for Title II (administrative expenditure).
These transfers of appropriations relate mainly to ongoing building renovations (284 423 euros), IT projects (253 483 euros) and costs for audits and evaluations (137 098 euros), for which services were partly provided in 2017 or only invoiced this year will.
The cancellation rate of payment appropriations carried over from 2015 was also high for Title II at 17% (2015: 20%), suggesting that budgetary planning needs to be improved.
Periodic external performance evaluations are not required by the founding regulation of the Office.
While the Office or the Commission have carried out ad hoc evaluations on specific issues, the Office should consider, together with the Commission, commissioning comprehensive external performance evaluations at least every five years, as most other agencies do.
EN C 434/194 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 OFFICE'S REPLIES 3.33.8.
It agrees with the Court that the documentation needs to be improved and notes that the necessary assessments, evaluations and opinions have been carried out or prepared as part of the relevant procedures.
3.33.9.
The Office entered into a contractual agreement with the European Commission before the end of the year for the provision of the tool for the electronic submission of tenders.
At that time there were no tenders that met the conditions for using the tool, nor was the use of the tool mandatory at that time.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/195 3.34.
The European Union Intellectual Property Office (hereinafter ădas OfficeŇ, also ăEUIPOŇ), which until March 23, 2016 was known as the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM), was established in 1993.
Its original founding regulation was last amended by Regulation (EU) 2017/1001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (254).
The core activity of the Alicante-based office is the registration of EU trademarks and registered community designs that are legally valid throughout the EU.
3.34.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the office (255).
Table Main Office figures 2017 Budget (million euros) (1) 401 Total staff at 31 December 995 (1) The budget figures include the provision for contingencies.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 421 910 OPINION 3.34.3. We have a) the annual accounts of the Office, comprising the annual accounts(256) and reports on the implementation of the budget(257) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.34.4. In our opinion, the annual accounts of the Office for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the position of assets and liabilities of the Office as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 154 of 16.6.2017, p. 1.
(255) More information on the competences and activities of the Office is available on its website https://euipo.europa.eu.
(256) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(257) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/196 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.34.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts 3.34.6.
3.34.7.
In 2017, the Office canceled 3.2 million euros or 15.9% of the commitments carried over from FY2016.
The Office continued to use mainly fixed prices for service contracts (258).
The prices used in each service contract are based on unit prices (price/person-day, etc.) established in framework agreements and the estimated number of units required for the service in question.
When checking contractors' price offers, the Office will ensure that the unit prices are correctly applied.
3.34.10.
However, in a procedure for the award of a framework agreement valued at EUR 80 million for general consulting, auditing and project management services and studies, the list of services to be provided in connection with the framework agreement was not exhaustive.
With regard to the evaluation of the bids, the terms of reference contained two business cases related to the management of a project and a multi-project program.
This framework agreement is a mixed multiple framework agreement, partly using a cascade process (general consulting and project management services) and partly a reopening of competition (testing and studies).
The units protected were pre-determined by the Office, but tenderers were invited to determine the distribution between the different profiles.
The framework agreement and also some of the associated specific orders were therefore tendered on the basis of unit prices, types of profiles and quality, but not the estimated number of units required, which is another essential element in calculating a fixed price contract.
3.34.11.
For this framework agreement, an individual order with a fixed price of EUR 145,447.50 was examined, which primarily relates to the provision of support services for the execution of a document management project.
The person days required for the provision of these services can neither be derived from the business cases set out in the service descriptions nor from the description contained in the individual order.
With a fixed price as specified in this individual order, there is therefore a risk that the services will not be provided in the most economical way.
3.34.12.
If not all the conditions for the provision of services can be specified when awarding the framework agreement, it is more appropriate for the individual orders to reopen competition among several contractors of the framework agreement.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.34.13. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(258) See also paragraph 21 of the previous year's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/197 EN Year 2016 Corrective action status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Completed (3) ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' observations Court's observations The Office's budget implementation rate was 89 % low, indicating an inaccurate estimate of his 2016 budget expenditures.
Recent changes to the Office's founding regulations and financial rules have made it more important for the Office to establish an accurate budget, if necessary through an amending budget, as there are now mechanisms linked to budgeted amounts, such as the allocation of surpluses to a reserve fund (1) and an associated balancing mechanism (2) are provided.
In 2014, the Office launched a call for tenders for a four-year framework contract with an estimated market volume of EUR 30 million for the procurement of consultancy services covering a wide range of activities, including audit services, project management, general consultancy services and studies .
However, the procurement process and the subsequent use of the framework contract were sometimes not properly managed.
The objectives and the activities to be carried out had not been defined with sufficient precision to allow a precise estimation of the volume of the framework contract.
Therefore, the funds of the framework agreement were already fully exhausted after only two years and six months.
In addition, despite the variety of services to be procured and the very different amounts of expenditure per activity, no lots were used.
The use of lots could have encouraged smaller companies to participate in the process for low value activities.
Finally, price competition was neutralized and dependency on the contractor increased as fixed price offers were requested from a single contractor using the framework contract.
The Office should consider entering into multi-supplier agreements and re-opening competition if necessary.
The Office's founding regulation stipulates that the Translation Center for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT) carries out the translations required for the Office's work, with the result that the Office is the Centre's main client.
The Office is increasingly turning to internal solutions such as linguistic and translation memories and related software.
These tools are designed to improve the Office's cost-effectiveness and economy.
From the perspective of the European Union, however, the current situation could lead to a duplication of effort and the corresponding costs.
2016 Ongoing (4) 2016 Ongoing (1) Pursuant to Article 89(1) of its Financial Regulations, the Office shall set up a reserve fund, the appropriations of which will ensure the continuation of its activities and the performance of its tasks for one year, ie at the level indicated in the appropriations entered in Titles 1, 2 and 3 of the Office's budget.
(2) Pursuant to Article 139(4) and (6) of its founding Regulation, the Office shall compensate each year the costs incurred by the industrial property offices of the Member States, the Benelux Office for Intellectual Property and any other relevant authority appointed by a Member State to be identified as a result of the specific tasks they perform as functional parts of the European Union's trademark system within the framework of various services and procedures; this obligation only applies to the extent that there is no budget deficit in that year.
(3) In 2017, the Office's budget implementation rate was 97%.
(4) See paragraph 3.34.8.
EN C 434/198 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE OFFICE BUDGETARY OBSERVATIONS 3.34.8.
While the cancellation rate is just over 15%, the amount of bound transfers canceled is EUR 3.2 million, the lowest in the last ten years (since 2008).
The Office continues to work with national offices to reduce canceled transfers through interim implementation reports and semi-annual reviews with enhanced control measures, which are an integral part of any new cooperation agreement.
Other measures were also implemented internally, such as awareness-raising measures through coaching, training, information notes and meetings with the financial stakeholders.
Furthermore, before the end of 2017 the Office expected the level of canceled transmissions to exceed 15% and proactively took additional measures to reduce transmissions for the next year.
The Office takes note of the Court's observations.
As a preliminary it should be noted that the scenarios described in the procurement documents for the future uses of the contract aimed to be as illustrative and representative as possible and were not expected to be linked in detail to each and every specific contract.
As for the adequacy of the re-opening of the competition mechanisms, and as detailed in the Office's response to the 2016 audit, this concept has already been introduced in the audited Framework Contract on Audits and Studies.
The Office has compared the added value of this mechanism with the associated administrative costs and, given the Office's extensive use of the consultancy and project management services, has concluded that this is not to be considered the most efficient way to use the latter types of contracts manage.
Taking into account that the current framework contract is valid until 2020, extending this mechanism to the consultancy and project management services would require a new call for tenders at that time, which the Office does not consider appropriate.
In the existing cascade system for consulting and project management services, the office repeats the answer to the 2016 audit on the use of the fixed price procedure.
The main reason for choosing this option is that the Office has pending cases before the Spanish Labor Courts in relation to 'illegal transfer of staff', related, inter alia, to the use of the former 'Time and Means' regime.
In the case of the fixed price procedure (as part of the cascade system), the Office has experience in evaluating the offers.
The EUIPO has set up a dedicated team which, based on past practice and expertise, is able to assess what resources are required to fulfill the tasks behind the fixed price services.
However, we believe that the Court's concerns can be addressed through contractual methods other than 'fixed price', such as the 'Quoted Time and Means' method, a method which the Office may consider in the future on a case-by-case basis.
The Office undertakes to provide further information and to document its own estimates of the resources required to fulfill the tasks for Fixed Price Services before the Request for Proposal is issued, in order to provide upfront evidence of the Office's above-mentioned experience.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/199 3.35.
SINGLE RESOLUTION BOARD (SRB) INTRODUCTION 3.35.1.
The Single Resolution Board (hereinafter 'the Board', also 'SRB'), based in Brussels, was established by Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 on the Single Resolution Mechanism ('SRM Regulation') (259).
3.35.2.
The Board is responsible for the administration of the Single Resolution Fund (hereafter ăthe FundŇ) established by the SRM Regulation to provide support under the Single Resolution Mechanism.
3.35.3.
The Committee has its own budget, which is not part of the EU budget.
3.35.4.
The table gives the key figures for the Committee (260).
Table Main figures for the Committee Budget (million euros) Part I (Committee's operating budget) Part II (Fund's budget) 2017 113 6 462 2016 65 11 800 182 Total staff at 31 December (1) (1) The staff includes officials, Temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Committee. COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (259) OJ L
L 225 of 30.7.2014, p. 1.
(260) More information on the competences and activities of the Board is available on its website www.srb.europa.eu.
(261) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes. (262) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/200 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.35.7.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.35.8.
Emphasis of Matter 3.35.9.
Without calling into question the opinions expressed in paragraphs 3.35.6-3.35.8, the Court would like to point out that the contributions to the Fund are calculated on the basis of the information provided to the Committee by the credit institutions (and some investment firms).
The Court relied on this information in examining the Committee's revenue, but did not check its reliability.
The SRM Regulation does not provide a comprehensive and consistent control framework to ensure the reliability of the information.
In addition, the Committee cannot disclose details of the contributions per credit institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, as the calculations are linked and include confidential information about other credit institutions.
3.35.10.
Administrative complaints or court proceedings between credit institutions and national resolution authorities and the Board in relation to contributions to the fund, as well as complaints brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union by former shareholders and creditors of Banco Popular Espa–ol, SA following the adoption of the resolution scheme were included in our audit so that the position of the parties in these proceedings is not influenced.
See item 8 of the Committee's financial statements for detailed information.
3.35.11.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion. NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.35.12.
The Committee did not ensure that payments were made on time.
Around 28% of payments (9.5% of the total amounts paid) to contractors and reimbursements to experts and staff were made after due date.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.35.13.
In accordance with Article 92(4) of the SRM Regulation, the Court reports in particular on the contingent liabilities arising for the Board, the Council and the Commission from the performance of their tasks under this Regulation.
According to the preliminary procurement plan attached to the work program 2017, contracts were to be awarded for 16 different services, but only contracts for the provision of legal advice were actually awarded.
In addition, the estimated value of the contract for the provision of legal advice in the preliminary procurement plan was EUR 3 million, while the actual contract volume was EUR 29 million.
This indicates inadequate procurement planning.
3.35.15.
Of the EUR 29 million in legal advice contracts, EUR 20 million was awarded through 11 negotiated procedures without prior publication.
In addition, two contracts worth 3 million euros for advice and assistance in economic and financial assessment (as foreseen in the 2016 annual work program) were also awarded through such a procedure.
Excessive use of such methods leads to the restriction of competition.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/201 3.35.16.
According to its Financial Rules, the Committee should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (263).
Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015). As of the end of 2017, the committee had not implemented any of these tools.
3.35.17.
The Committee publishes vacancies on its own website and on social media, but generally not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would respect the principle of transparency, increase publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies in one place.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.35.18. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(263) Article 75 of the SRB Financial Regulations of 25 March 2015.
C 434/202 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of previous years' observations The Court's observations The Board became operational in 2015 and gradually established its internal control environment.
However, a number of key procedures and controls have yet to be developed, adopted or implemented. These include the risk management and control strategy, the internal control standards, the regular evaluation of the proper functioning of the internal control system and the anti-fraud strategy.
The Accounting Officer has not yet validated the Committee's accounting system.
Of the funds available, only 62% (2015: 67%) or EUR 35 million (2015: EUR 15 million) (1) were implemented.
The committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year amount to 3.1 million euros or 35% (2015: 3.3 million euros or 70%) of the total committed appropriations for title II (administrative expenditure).
They mainly relate to IT orders placed in 2016 (1.9 million euros) and security services provided this year that have not yet been invoiced and paid for (0.6 million euros).
Committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year for Title III of the budget (operational expenditure) amount to 5.3 million euros or 66% (2015: 1.6 million euros or 40%) of the appropriations committed.
They relate mainly to services provided by the European Central Bank (EUR 1.9 million), legal services (EUR 1.5 million) and IT contracts (EUR 1.3 million) for which payments are to be made in 2017.
Between July and October 2016, the committee committed 2 million euros for the procurement of legal services. These services were not included in the annual work program or budget, nor was a funding decision taken prior to the commitment.
Applying the negative interest rate to the European Central Bank's deposit facility in 2016, the Fund paid €24 million of negative interest (2) to the national central banks.
This reduced the amount of accumulated premiums available for future settlements.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/203 EN Court's observations The Board needs to streamline its recruitment procedures, set clear minimum marks to be achieved by candidates and clarify the roles and responsibilities of the members of the selection board.
Year 2016 In 2017 the execution rate was 71% or 71 million euros.
50 million euros in 2017.
EN C 434/204 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMITTEE REPLY 3.35.9.
The annual ex ante contributions to the Fund are calculated on the basis of information provided to the Committee by credit institutions and certain investment firms.
Although the SRM Regulation does not provide a comprehensive and consistent control framework to ensure the reliability of this information, the SRF devotes all the attention it can to this aspect.
The data provided are checked against the data reported by the institutions in the previous year and the data contained in the ECB database.
Deviations are reported to the national resolution authorities, who are asked to clarify the situation. This made it possible for the SRF to improve the quality of the data in the previous cycles.
In addition, the Committee cannot provide details of the ex-ante contributions per institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, as the calculations are linked and would thus reveal confidential information about other institutions.
However, the SRF has disclosed the calculation method and detailed calibrations in order to ensure transparency and cooperation.
3.35.12.
In 2017, due to a combination of an unexpectedly high workload, an unfortunate turnover of staff in the finance team and general difficulties in finding experienced employees, the finance team was not sufficiently capacity to ensure the efficient processing of all finance operations, including invoices.
Since the 4th quarter of 2017, the team's capacity has been strengthened again and measures have been taken to ensure the timely processing of invoices.
To date, in 2018 almost 98% of invoices have been paid within the set deadlines.
Each case of late payment is now being closely examined in order to make further improvements in this area.
3.35.14.
The SRB's Provisional Procurement Plan for 2017 was adopted in 2016, when the Board was only in its second full year of existence.
At that time, no resolution cases had been processed and the Agency had little experience on which to base its procurement plan.
As a new agency, the SRB was able to use various inter-institutional framework contracts managed by the European Commission.
As a result, several award procedures that were supposed to be initiated by the SRB in 2017 were ultimately not carried out.
In 2018, the implementation of the procurement plan will be closely monitored and additional efforts will be made to improve the planning of procurement processes.
In 2017, the SRB spent a total of €20 million on providing legal advice.
Almost all negotiated procedures without prior publication of a procurement notice concerned legal disputes (eight out of ten contracts with a total value of 10.9 million euros) which did not fall within the scope of Directive 2014/24/EU.
This also includes a large number of disputes brought before the ECJ after the SRB's first resolution procedure.
The SRB therefore does not consider that it is overusing such procedures.
Regarding the orders for the economic and financial evaluation in two out of twelve procedures in 2017, the renewed holding of a competition proved unsuccessful. The SRB was therefore forced to resort to negotiated procedures.
Due to the subject matter of the contract and the need for maximum confidentiality, the contract notice was not published in accordance with the applicable rules.
3.35.16.
Online access to tender documents has been available to economic operators on the SRB website since the Board's inception and has been fully integrated into the e-tendering platform since late 2017.
In June 2017, the SRB requested to be able to use the electronic submission of bids as well. However, the Commission has not yet granted access.
The SRB found that such publication on the EPSO website does not increase the quality or number of applications and is also very costly due to the required translation of the vacancy notices.
Therefore, the SRB preferably publishes its vacancy notices on its own website, EU_CV online and LinkedIn and informs its stakeholders (central banks, finance ministries, national authorities, other EU agencies and permanent missions).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/205 3.36. TRANSLATION CENTER FOR THE BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (CDT) INTRODUCTION 3.36.1.
The Translation Center for the Bodies of the European Union (hereinafter ăthe CentreŇ, also ăCdTŇ), based in Luxembourg, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2965/94(264).
The Centre's mission is to provide the institutions and bodies of the European Union that use the Centre's services with the translation services they need to carry out their duties.
3.36.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the center (265).
Table Main figures for the Center 2017 budget (million euro) 49 Total staff at 31 December (1) 215 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Centre.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 51 225 OPINION 3.36.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Center comprising the annual accounts(266) and reports on the implementation of the budget(267) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.36.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Center for the year ended December 31, 2017 present the financial position of the Center as at December 31, 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 314 of 7.12.1994, p. 1.
(265) More information on the competences and activities of the Center is available on its website www.cdt.europa.eu.
(266) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(267) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/206 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.36.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.36.6.
Note 3.36.7.
The Centre's mission is to provide EU agencies and bodies with the translation services they need to run their jobs. It also performs this task vis-à-vis the organs of the EU, which can use the centre's services.
The founding regulations of most agencies and bodies provide for their use of the Centre's translation services.
Some agencies and bodies (which account for more than half of the Centre's revenues) are increasingly turning to in-house options or other alternatives.
However, this means that the capacity of the Center is not being used to the maximum, there is duplication in the development of systems and running costs at European level, and that the business model and continuity of the Center could be jeopardized.
In 2017, an external assessment of the adequacy of the Centre's business model was carried out.
The final evaluation report had not been adopted at the time of the Court's audit (268).
3.36.8.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.36.9.
According to their framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (269) (270).
Since a corresponding specification also applies to the EU bodies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Center had introduced e-invoicing for certain procedures, but not e-tendering and e-submission.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.36.11. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(268) The Court has not verified this evaluation work.
(269) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(270) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/207 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations The Center has not yet adopted a business continuity plan and is therefore not in compliance with internal control standard 10 (1) .
In 2016, the Centre's treasury and short-term bank deposits decreased to 34.2 million euros (end 2015: 38.3 million euros). The reserves decreased to 31.1 million euros (end of 2015: 34 million euros). This decrease is the result of a budgetary approach aimed at reducing the surplus accumulated in previous years (2).
Year 2015 2016 Status of corrective action (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a) Completed Ongoing (1) (2) The Center's internal control standards are based on the relevant Commission standards.
This trend continued in 2017.
EN C 434/208 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE CENTER 3.36.9.
The accounting officer is independent in the performance of his accounting duties.
This independence is guaranteed by the fact that he is appointed by the Board of Directors and his position is permanent.
In order to strengthen the Accounting Officer's independence, from 2018 he will report directly to the Director of the Center for the Accounting Officer's duties and his annual appraisal will be carried out by the Director.
3.36.10.
The Center will start using these two tools developed by the Commission from October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/209 Commission executive agencies 3.37.
EDUCATION, AUDIOVISUAL AND CULTURE EXECUTIVE AGENCY (EACEA) INTRODUCTION 3.37.1.
The Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEACEAŇ), based in Brussels, was established by Commission Implementing Decision 2013/776/EU(271) repealing Decision 2009/336/EC(272).
The agency is responsible for the management of programs decided by the Commission in the fields of education, audiovisual and culture, as well as for the detailed implementation of technical projects.
3.37.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (273).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 50 Total staff at 31 December (1) 436 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 49 442 OPINION 3.37.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (274) and reports on the implementation of the budget (275) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.37.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 343 of 19.12.2013, p. 46.
L 101 of 21.4.2009, p. 26.
(273) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.eacea.ec.europa.eu.
(274) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(275) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/210 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.37.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.37.6.
3.37.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.37.8.
The Agency's Accounting Officer is supervised by the Head of the Finance, Accounting and Programming Department.
According to the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (276). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the institutions and agencies of the EU, the Commission is currently developing an IT overall solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.37.10.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued audit reports in 2017 on the management of anti-competitive fine recovery orders (including security for anti-trust fines) and recovery orders in the context of the Commission's corrective capacity and on phase 1 of grant management in relation to the Erasmus+ and Creative Europe programs (277).
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement. FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.37.11.
(276) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ). (277) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/211 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations During the Agency's annual inventory of assets in 2016, 46 IT items with a total acquisition value of approximately 22 000 euro could not be found, which indicates deficiencies in securing assets.
At 2.3 million euro or 47% (2015: 2.8 million euro or 50%) the rate of carry-over was high for Title III (support to the Agency's operational activities).
These transfers of appropriations relate primarily to ongoing audits of projects (0.8 million euros) and IT services (0.9 million euros) that were commissioned in 2016 but had not yet been invoiced at the end of the year, or that were only just to be provided in 2017.
Year 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN C 434/212 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.37.8. The Agency considers that its Accounting Officer has a high degree of independence.
Apart from the appointment by the Steering Committee and the functional reporting to the Committee, it should be noted that the Accounting Officer of the EACEA, as a seconded senior Commission official, is per se much more independent than locally recruited Accounting Officers.
This configuration makes the seconded accounting officer part of the organizational structure of the parent DG, in our case DG EAC.
The Agency will analyze the Court's observation, taking into account potential action by other EU agencies and/or organizational guidance from the Commission.
As the Agency's top management changes, the matter will be referred to the incoming Director for consideration.
3.37.9.
The Agency strictly follows the Commission's e-procurement project.
It plans to start e-tendering in July 2018, which will be followed by the e-submission process.
3.37.10.
Both action plans have now been sent to the Internal Audit Service, which has accepted them.
It should be noted that all planned measures have now been implemented.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/213 3.38.
EXECUTIVE AGENCY FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES (EASME) INTRODUCTION 3.38.1.
The Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăEASMEŇ), based in Brussels, was established by Commission Implementing Decision 2013/771/EU (278) for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2024.
Its main task is to manage EU policies in the fields of research and innovation, SME competitiveness, environment and climate policy, and maritime and fisheries policy, in close cooperation with seven Commission Directorates-General.
3.38.2.
The table gives the main figures for the agency (279).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 43 Total staff at 31 December (1) 434 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 36 417 OPINION 3.38.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (280) and reports on the implementation of the budget (281) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.38.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 341 of 18.12.2013, p. 73.
(279) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.ec.europa.eu/easme/.
(280) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(281) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/214 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.38.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.38.6.
3.38.7.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.38.8.
In the course of this year's audit of all EU agencies, the Court analyzed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and the independence of the accounting officers, as well as the issue of the timely (re)validation of the accounting systems.
The Agency's Accounting Officer is supervised by the Chief Financial Officer.
The Court therefore considers it necessary to strengthen the independence of the Accounting Officer by making him report directly to the Director (administrative matters) and the Steering Committee (functional matters) of the Agency.
3.38.9.
In addition, the agency's mandate was significantly expanded in 2014: it now manages EU actions in different areas in cooperation with seven Commission Directorates-General.
The last time the accounting system was revalidated was in 2012, despite major changes in the Agency's procedures and a significant increase in its budget and staff.
According to the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (282). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the institutions and agencies of the EU, the Commission is currently developing an IT overall solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.38.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued audit reports in 2017 on the Agency's management of COSME (Programme for the Competitiveness of Enterprises and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises) and the administrative procedures of the Agency's human resources department(283).
The Agency prepared action plans to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement.
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.38.12. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years. (282) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(283) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/215 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations The rate of carry-overs was high for both Title II (Administrative Expenditure) at 1 250 000 euro or 33 % (2015 : 998 324 euros or 14%) and Title III (support for the Agency's operational activities) with 2 550 000 euros or 62% (2015: 4 million euros or 65%).
For Title II, transfers of appropriations were mainly related to rent (0.6 million euros) and the purchase of hardware not yet delivered at year-end (0.5 million euros).
The carry-overs under Title III concerned evaluation and monitoring of the LIFE program by external experts (1.5 million euros), ongoing ex-post reviews (0.5 million euros) and IT services (0.5 million euros ), which were commissioned in 2016 but had only been partially completed and not yet invoiced by the end of the year.
The Agency may consider introducing differentiated budget appropriations to better reflect the multiannual nature of activities and unavoidable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
The high cancellation rate of appropriations carried over from the previous year under Title I (staff expenditure) – 32000 euros or 8.3% – shows that the appropriations required were overestimated.
Year 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN C 434/216 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.38.8.
The Agency considers that its internal control system provides reasonable assurance to ensure effective segregation of duties and the independence of the accounting officer.
The Accounting Officer was appointed by the Steering Committee.
The Steering Committee adopts the preliminary and final accounts, the administrative budget and any other amendments.
The principal of the accounting officer's work is approved by the director.
The Agency believes that a change in the current reporting and organizational structure would not have a material impact on the risks and controls of the accounting processes.
However, the agency will monitor the situation closely and adjust the organizational and reporting obligations if necessary.
3.38.9. The accounting team started the validation of the accounting systems in December 2017 and will complete it in 2018.
3.38.10.
In the area of procurement, the Agency has introduced electronic invoicing for certain IT providers since 2013, including full electronic processing and an automated interface to the ABAC workflow.
From 2018, electronic invoicing will be further promoted and will gradually also be used by other suppliers, depending on their infrastructure and electronic equipment.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/217 3.39.
European Research Council Executive Agency (ERCEA) INTRODUCTION 3.39.1.
The Executive Agency of the European Research Council (hereafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăERCEAŇ), based in Brussels, was established by Commission Decision 2008/37/EC (284).
The agency was set up for the period from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2017. She is to manage the 'Ideas' specific program of the Seventh Research Framework Programme.
By Council Decision 2013/743/EU(285) the Agency was given the function of implementing body responsible for all aspects of the administrative and practical implementation of the Horizon 2020 research programme. It implements the actions under the specific objective 'Strengthening frontier research through European Research Council activities' of Part I 'Excellent science' of the program (286).
3.39.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (287).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 47 Total staff at 31 December (1) 477 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 43 461 OPINION 3.39.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (288) and reports on the implementation of the budget (289) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.39.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 9 of 12.01.2008, p. 15.
(285) OJ.
(286) Implementation period 2014-2020.
(287) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.erc.europa.eu.
(288) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(289) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/218 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.39.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.39.6.
3.39.7.
According to the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (290). Since a corresponding specification also applies to the institutions and agencies of the EU, the Commission is currently developing an IT overall solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015). By the end of 2017, the agency had introduced e-tendering and e-invoicing for certain procedures, but not e-submission of bids.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.39.9.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued an audit report in 2017 on the closure procedures for FP7 (291) projects (292).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.39.10. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(290) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(291) Seventh EU framework program for research and technological development.
(292) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/219 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations The bid opening and evaluation reports prepared by the Agency's procurement and recruitment committees do not provide a complete and accurate picture of the actual procedures followed.
The inadequate reports affect the transparency of these procedures.
In its September 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency has taken a number of strategic and operational measures to improve the recruitment, retention and allocation process of its staff.
In this context, the IAS came to the conclusion that the Agency has designed and implemented an appropriate human resources management system that enables it to deploy a competent and committed workforce in such a way that the achievement of its objectives is guaranteed.
While no critical or particularly serious issues were identified, the Agency and the IAS agreed on an action plan to further improve this process in specific areas.
At 1.3 million euros or 40% (2015: 1.5 million euros or 43%), the rate of carryovers in Title III (operational expenditure) remained high, mainly due to cross-annual external audits and communication measures.
The high transmission rate contradicts the budgetary principle of annuality.
Year 2016 2016 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN C 434/220 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.39.8. Electronic submission of tenders is currently limited to open procedures (the threshold is set by Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and was EUR 135 000 in 2017).
As the Agency did not initiate such a procedure in 2017 and will not do so in 2018 either, the Agency was not able to use electronic submission of tenders in 2017.
In addition, according to the Commission's roadmap, the use of electronic submission of tenders will become mandatory for all EU institutions and agencies by the end of 2018.
Therefore, in 2018 the onboarding process was started and the Agency will be able to start electronic submission of tenders before the end of the year.
For negotiated procedures, the Agency will use electronic submission of tenders once the Commission has integrated this option into the module.
3.39.9.
According to the action plan drawn up by the agency and approved by the IAS in relation to the audit ăCompletion of RP7 projectsŇ, all measures were implemented on time by the ERCEA and submitted to the Internal Audit Service (IAS) on April 9th, 2018 for follow-up.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/221 3.40.
EXECUTIVE AGENCY FOR INNOVATION AND NETWORKS (INEA) INTRODUCTION 3.40.1.
The Innovation and Networks Executive Agency (INEA Ń hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ), based in Brussels, was established by Commission Implementing Decision 2013/801/EU(293). It replaces the Executive Agency for the Trans-European Transport Network and is its legal successor.
The agency was established for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2024 to manage Union actions in the area of the Connecting Europe Facility, the Horizon 2020 research and innovation funding programme, the Trans-European Transport Network program and the Marco -Polo program set up.
3.40.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (294).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 24 Total staff at 31 December (1) 249 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the agency.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 22 225 OPINION 3.40.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (295) and reports on the implementation of the budget (296) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.40.4. In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 352 of 24.12.2013, p. 65.
(294) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.ec.europa.eu/inea.
(295) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(296) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/222 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.40.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.40.6.
3.40.7.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion. COMMENTS ON SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 3.40.8.
According to the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (297).
Since a corresponding specification also applies to the institutions and agencies of the EU, the Commission is currently developing an IT overall solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015). The agency had introduced e-invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not e-tendering and e-submission.
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.40.9.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued a report on grant management phase 2 Ń project management and payments for the Connecting Europe Facility at INEA in 2017 (298).
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement. FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.40.10. The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(297) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(298) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/223 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations At 0,5 million euro or 48 % (2015: 0,5 million euro or 51 %) the rate of the Commitments carried over at Title III following fiscal year up.
Year 2016 Corrective Action Status (Completed/Ongoing/Pending/N/A) N/A
EN C 434/224 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.40.8.
By the end of 2017, the agency had introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures.
Electronic tendering and electronic submission of tenders have not been implemented as they do not concern the Agency.
In fact, procurement activities are carried out only through the use of low-value contracts or existing framework contracts managed by the European Commission services.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/225 3.41.
RESEARCH EXECUTIVE AGENCY (REA) INTRODUCTION 3.41.1.
The Research Executive Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ, also ăREAŇ), based in Brussels, was established by Commission Decision 2008/46/EC (299).
The Agency was set up for a limited period (1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017) to manage specific Union actions in the field of research.
On June 15, 2009, the agency was officially granted administrative and operational autonomy by the European Commission.
On December 13, 2013, the Commission, with its Implementing Decision 2013/778/EU (300), extended the existence of the REA until 2024 and transferred parts of the new framework program for research and innovation “Horizon 2020” to the agency.
3.41.2.
The table below gives the main figures for the Agency (301).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 67 Total staff at 31 December (2) 693 (1) Budget figures are based on payment appropriations.
(2) The staff shall include officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE SUBMITTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL Ń INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT 2016 63 628 OPINION 3.41.3.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (302) and reports on the implementation of the budget (303) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.41.4.
In our opinion, the financial statements of the Agency for the year ended 31 December 2017 present the financial position of the Agency as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and its cash flows and changes in net assets for the financial year then ended overall fair presentation in all material respects in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Accountant of the Commission, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector.
L 11 of 15.01.2008, p. 9.
(300) OJ.
(301) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website www.ec.europa.eu/rea.
(302) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(303) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/226 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.41.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the financial statements 3.41.6.
3.41.7.
The following observations do not call into question the Court's opinion.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.41.8.
The handling of the selection process for contract employees shows weaknesses.
The recruitment files and the minutes of the selection committee meetings do not always contain the criteria used to select candidates from the recruitment database (304).
According to the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (305).
Since a corresponding specification also applies to the institutions and agencies of the EU, the Commission is currently developing an IT overall solution that includes all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of contract notice documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and electronic tender submission (2015).
INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICE REPORTS 3.41.10.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) issued an audit report on the closure of FP7 projects at the REA in May 2017 (306).
The Agency prepared an action plan to take remedial action in areas where there was potential for improvement. FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.41.11.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years.
(304) Reference is also made to the 2016 report on the Agency's human resources management prepared by the Commission's Internal Audit Service.
(305) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
(306) The Court has not verified this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/227 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court's observations In its December 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency's overall human resource management is adequate.
The Agency and the IAS agreed on a corrective action plan for the finding included in the report.
In another audit report from May 2016, the IAS concluded that the Agency, together with the Commission, has set up an efficient internal control system for the management of the grants awarded under the Horizon 2020 programme.
The Agency and the IAS, together with the Commission, agreed on a corrective action plan for the finding considered to be of great importance.
On behalf of the Commission, the Agency's performance in the period 2012-2015 was subjected to an external evaluation, for which the final report was presented in May 2016.
The conclusion of the evaluation is that the Agency has carried out its tasks in an effective, efficient and cost-effective manner during the period under review, that its mission remains highly relevant for the Commission and the beneficiaries served by the Agency and that the Transfer operational tasks from the commission to the agency was successful.
However, the evaluators also identified opportunities for making the activities even more effective and efficient. The Agency and the Commission were asked to improve their internal dialogue and cooperation, external communication and certain aspects of IT and human resource management.
The Agency and the Commission agreed on a corrective action plan.
EN C 434/228 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY FROM THE AGENCY 3.41.9.
The audited recruitment process, where weaknesses were identified, was introduced in 2016. A reserve list was then drawn up and adopted in 2016, which was used in 2017 to submit a job offer.
REA's selection process for contract staff was revised taking into account the 2016 recommendation of the IAS and later implemented in 2017.
The revised selection process for contract staff takes into account the requirements for clearly documented CV search criteria and eligibility checks, as well as eligibility and selection criteria.
The search criteria used by the selection committees to screen CVs are documented in their meeting minutes.
Thus, the weaknesses mentioned by the Court in the revised procedure have already been addressed.
In the area of procurement, the REA relies on service agreements with the Commission or on framework contracts of the Commission.
The REA would only initiate a special procurement procedure if there was a special need that was not covered by these agreements or contracts.
In 2017, REA only carried out one procurement procedure for a low-value contract.
The current tools for e-tendering and e-submission of bids are only applicable to public procurement procedures above the 144 000 euro threshold. As the REA has not yet initiated a procurement procedure above this threshold, it was not able to use the e-tendering and e-submission tools in 2017.
In addition, according to the Commission's roadmap, the introduction of e-tendering and e-submission of bids will become mandatory for all EU institutions and agencies by the end of 2018, and thus the implementation process only started in 2018.
The Agency already uses e-invoicing and will also use the e-tendering and e-submission modules when launching a tendering process, once these modules also cover medium and low value contracts.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/229 3.42.
CONSUMER, HEALTH, AGRICULTURE AND FOOD EXECUTIVE AGENCY (CHAFEA) INTRODUCTION 3.42.1.
The Consumer, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency (hereinafter ăthe AgencyŇ) was established on January 1, 2005 (2005-2008: Executive Agency for the Health Program (PHEA), 2008-2013: Executive Agency for Health and Consumers (EAHC), since January 1 January 2014: Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food Executive Agency (307).
The agency is based in Luxembourg. Her mandate was extended until December 31, 2024.
The Agency implements the Community Health Action Programme, the Consumers Scheme and the 'Better Training for Safer Food' initiative.
3.42.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (308).
Table Main figures of the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 10 Total staff at 31 December (1) 61 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract agents and seconded national experts.
We have obtained a) the annual accounts of the Agency, comprising the annual accounts (309) and reports on the implementation of the budget (310) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Reliability of the accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts 3.42.4.
(307) Commission Implementing Decision 2013/770/EU (OJ
(308) More information on the Agency's competences and activities is available on its website http://ec.europa.eu/chafea/.
(309) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
(310) The reports on the implementation of the budget include the statements summarizing all revenue and expenditure transactions, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/230 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.42.5. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 is, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts 3.42.6.
Emphasis of Matter 3.42.7.
The agency's accounting officer has been absent since the end of November 2017.
On 13 December 2017, the Agency's Steering Committee formally appointed a Management Board as acting Accounting Officer, although this Management Board represents the Authorizing Officer by Delegation.
This is in contradiction with Article 28 of the Agency's Financial Regulations, according to which authorizing officers and accounting are separate and mutually exclusive functions.
3.42.8.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.42.9.
In 2017, the agency under-documented recruitment procedures.
This could call into question the principles of transparency and equal treatment of applicants.
In 2017, the Agency faced difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of bidders for low- and medium-value procurement procedures.
It received only one offer for each of the processes examined.
3.42.11.
According to the Financial Regulation, executive agencies should establish a uniform solution for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (311).
3.42.12.
The Agency publishes vacancies for temporary agents on its own website and social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO). This would increase transparency and publicity and allow citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies in one place. NOTES ON BUDGET MANAGEMENT 3.42.13.
The Agency's budget planning has weaknesses. In Title III of the budget, committed funds were carried over to a large extent from 2017 to 2018, at 1.6 million euros or 63% (2016: 1.2 million euros or 48%).
FOLLOW-UP TO REMARKS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.42.14.
The Annex provides an overview of the corrective action taken in response to the Court's observations from previous years. (311) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Government (ăe-GovernmentŇ).
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/231 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's observations The Agency canceled 0.2 million euro or 18% of its appropriations carried over to 2015 (2014: 0.1 million euro or 14% ), indicating flaws in their planning.
The Agency carried over 1.1 million euros or 48% (2015: 0.9 million euros or 52%) of the appropriations committed under Title III (Expenses related to the Agency's activities) to the following financial year.
These transfers of funds relate primarily to IT services and other studies that have been commissioned but have not yet been carried out or completed by the end of the year.
The agency canceled 0.2 million euros or 17% of the funds carried over from 2015 to 2016, indicating inadequate demand planning.
Year 2015 2016 Corrective Action Status (completed/ongoing/pending/n/a)
EN C 434/232 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 RESPONSE OF THE AGENCY HIGHLIGHT OF FACT 3.42.7. The annual financial statements were drawn up and signed by the appointed accountant who is back in office. The segregation of duties will be strictly observed in the future.
3.42.9. The Agency accepts the Court's observation that the recruitment file analyzed by the Court was not adequately documented.
However, CHAFEA ensured that no candidate was favored in this selection process as all candidates were treated equally.
3.42.10.
CHAFEA carried out all the steps recommended in the Financial Regulation for these two low and medium value contracts: the ex ante notification took place as requested and the legally required number of candidates were invited to submit a bid, with all candidates exceeding much had experience with tenders and the requested services.
Regarding the time allowed for tenderers to submit their bids, CHAFEA followed the DG BUDGET Vademecum on Procurement.
CHAFEA is currently testing several IT modules for electronic procurement, including electronic submission of tenders.
The first tender, where bids are submitted electronically, will be tested in the third quarter of 2018.
CHAFEA will fully comply with the EU Commission's recommendation to implement the electronic tender submission system before the end of 2018.
CHAFEA agrees that posting vacancy notices for temporary staff on EPSO's website can increase their visibility. 3.42.13.
The Agency accepts the Court's observations.
The agency will continue to work to further reduce the transmission and C8 cancellation rates.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/233 This report, including the 41 statements of assurance for each agency and body, was approved by Chamber IV, headed by Mr Neven MATES, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting of 18 September 2018 in Luxembourg accepted.
Official Journal of the European Union C 373 Volume 58 10 November 2015 German edition Contents 2015/C 373/01 2015/C 373/02 Communications and announcements IV Information INFORMATION FROM THE BODIES, BODIES AND AGENCIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Court of Auditors Annual report of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 together with the replies of the institutions........................................ 1 Annual report of the Court of Auditors on the activities of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2014 together with the Commission's replies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
289 EN EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/1 IV (Information) INFORMATION FROM EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS, BODIES, OFFICES AND AGENCIES COURT OF AUDITORS The Court of Auditors of the European Union shall, in accordance with Article 287(1) and (4) TFEU, with Article 148 Paragraph 1 and Article 162 paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No. 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No. 1605/2002 of the Council and Articles 43, 48 and 60 of Council Regulation (EC) No. 215/2008 of 18 February 2008 on the financial regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund, amended by Regulation (EU) No. 567 /2014, approved its ANNUAL REPORTS for the 2014 financial year at its meeting of September 10, 2015.
These reports, together with the institutions' replies to the Court's observations, were sent to the bodies responsible for discharge and to the other institutions.
Members of the Court of Auditors: Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (President), Igors LUDBORŽS, Jan KINŠT, Kersti KALJULAID, Karel PINXTEN, Henri GRETHEN, Szabolcs FAZAKAS, Louis GALEA, Ladislav BALKO, Augustyn KUBIK, Milan Martin CVIKL, Rasa BUDBERGYTĖ, Lazaros S. LAZAROU, Hans Gustaf WESSBERG, Pietro RUSSO, Ville ITÄLÄ, Kevin CARDIFF, Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA, Iliana IVANOVA, George PUFAN, Neven MATES, Alex BRENNINKMEIJER, Danièle LAMARQUE, Nikolaos MILIONIS, Phil WYNN OWEN, Klaus-Heiner LEHNE, Oskar HERICS, Bettina JAKOBSEN.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/3 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET (2015/C 373/01)
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/5 CONTENTS GeneralIntroduction .................................... ..............................
Chapter 2 —Budget and financial management ........................................ Chapter 3 — EU budget and delivery of results ... ........................................
Chapter 5 — "Competitiveness for growth and jobs" ................................
Chapter 6 —"Economic, social and territorial cohesion" ................................
Chapter 7 —“Natural Resources” ................................................ ........
Page 7 9 65 83 127 147 165 213 261 275
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/7 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 0.1.
The European Court of Auditors is the body responsible under the Treaty for auditing the finances of the European Union (EU).
As the EU's external auditor, we help improve EU financial management while acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
More detailed information on our work can be found in the annual activity report, which is available on our website www.eca.europa.eu, as well as the special reports on EU spending programs and revenue, and opinions on new or amended legislation.
This is our 38th annual report on the implementation of the EU budget; it relates to the 2014 financial year.
The annual report on the European Development Funds is presented separately.
0.3.
The general budget of the EU is decided annually by the Council and the European Parliament.
Our annual report, together with the special reports, forms the basis for the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament, following a recommendation from the Council, decides whether the Commission has carried out its budget implementation tasks satisfactorily.
At the same time as we send it to the European Parliament and the Council, we send our annual report to the national parliaments.
0.4.
The central element of our annual report is the statement of reliability of the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union and of the legality and regularity of transactions (hereinafter "regularity of transactions").
We complement this Statement of Assurance with specific assessments on each major area of EU activity.
0.5
The chapter structure now reflects the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF); our report is therefore even more pertinent.
The financial framework came into force in 2014 and is used to determine the size and distribution of EU spending in the period up to 2020.
This should make it easier for readers to relate the findings of our report to the relevant budgetary and accounting information.
0.6.
There are no separate financial statements for each MFF heading; therefore, the conclusions presented in specific assessments do not constitute audit opinions.
0.7.
Our report this year is structured as follows: — Chapter 1 contains the Statement of Assurance and summarizes the results of our audit on the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of transactions. — In Chapter 2, our findings on budgetary and financial management are presented. — Chapter 3 contributes to our strategic goal of improving EU public accountability. The focus is on the extent to which the performance framework enables the Commission to monitor and steer progress towards Europe 2020. — Chapter 4 contains our findings on revenue. — Chapters 5 to 9 (on MFF headings 1a, 1b, 2, 4 and 5)(1) provide the results of our transactional regularity audits and audit of selected systems and annual activity reports.
0.8.
The Commission's replies (or replies from other EU institutions and bodies where relevant) to our comments are included in the report. When presenting our findings and conclusions, the respective replies of the audited entity are taken into account.
However, as the external auditor, it is our sole responsibility to present our audit findings, to draw conclusions from these findings and thus to make an independent and impartial assessment of the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of transactions.
(1) We do not provide specific assessments on MFF headings 3 ('Security and Citizenship') and 6 ('Compensations') spending.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/9 EN CHAPTER 1 Statement of Assurance and related information CONTENTS Court's Statement of Assurance submitted to the European Parliament and the Council — Independent Auditor's Report Introduction EU spending is an important tool to achieve policy objectives Audit findings for the financial year 2014 The accounts did not reveal any material misstatements on the regularity of transactions: Our general audit results, while consistent, indicate a material level of error There are many forms of corrective action with different impacts The Commission's synthesis report confirms material errors in transactions Allegations of fraud will be forwarded to OLAF Conclusions Paragraphs I-XII 1.1-1.3 1.1-1.3 1.4-1.58 1.4-1.8 1.9-1.29 1.30-1.44 1.45-1.57 1.58 1.59-1.66 Annex 1.1 — Annex 1.2 — Annex 1.3 — Annex 1.4 — Appendix 1.5 — Audit approach and methodology Follow-up to previous comments on the reliability of the accounts Extracts from the consolidated financial statements 2014 The estimated level of error (MLE — most likely error) — unadjusted historical data for 2009-2013 Frequency of detected errors in audit samples for the year 2014
EN C 373/10 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 COURT'S STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE DELIVERED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL — INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT I. We have a) the consolidated accounts of the European Union, which consist of the consolidated accounts(1) and the aggregated statements of budgetary implementation (2) for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and approved by the Commission on 23 July 2015, and (b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) checked.
Responsibility of management II. In accordance with Articles 317 and 318 TFEU and the Financial Regulation, the Commission is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated accounts of the European Union based on internationally accepted public sector accounting principles and for the legality and regularity of the basis on which they are based lying processes.
This responsibility includes designing, establishing and maintaining internal control structures necessary for the preparation and presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The Commission bears ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the European Union (Article 317 TFEU).
Responsibility of the examiner III. Our task is to provide the European Parliament and the Council with a statement on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them, based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the IFAC International Standards on Auditing and Codes of Ethics and the INTOSAI International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the consolidated financial statements of the European Union are free from material misstatement and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
IV. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them.
The choice of audit procedures is at the discretion of the auditor. This includes assessing the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether intentional or unintentional, and of material non-compliance with European Union law in the underlying transactions, whether intentional or unintentional.
In assessing those risks, the auditor considers all internal controls relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the legality and regularity of underlying transactions in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used, the reasonableness of accounting estimates and the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
V. In the area of revenue, we use the macroeconomic aggregates relevant to their calculation as a starting point for our audit of the VAT-based and GNI-derived own resources and assess the Commission's systems for processing this data pending receipt of contributions from Member States and until their disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.
In the area of traditional own resources, we examine the accounts of the customs authorities and analyze the flow of duties until they are received by the Commission and the amounts are recorded in the accounts.
(1) The consolidated financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the statement of operations, the statement of cash flows, the statement of changes in net assets and a summary of significant accounting policies and other notes (including segment reporting).
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/11 VI. In the area of expenses, we review the payment transactions after the expenses have been made, recorded and accepted. All types of payments other than advances (including payments for the purchase of assets) are checked only after they have been made.
Prepayments are checked when the beneficiary provides or is required to provide evidence of their proper use and the advance is cleared or can be recovered.
VII. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
Reliability of accounts Opinion on the reliability of the accounts VIII. In our opinion, the consolidated accounts of the European Union for the year ended 31 December 2014 present the Union's net assets and financial position as at 31 December 2014, the results of its operations and its cash flows and the changes in net asset values for the financial year then ended in accordance with the Financial Regulation and accounting standards based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector, in all material respects, fairly overall. Legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the financial statements Revenue Payments Opinion on Legality and regularity of the income underlying the annual accounts IX. In our opinion, the revenue underlying the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 is legal and regular, in all material respects.
Basis for negative opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts X. The expenditure recorded in 2014 under headings 1 to 4 of the multiannual financial framework (3), which represent operational appropriations, is affected by a material error.
Our estimated error rate on the payments underlying the financial statements is 4.4%.
Our conclusion is supported by the analysis of the amounts at risk presented by the Commission in the synthesis report.
No opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts XI. In our opinion, the payments underlying the accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 are materially affected by error because of the significance of the matters described in the paragraph “Base for disagreement on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts”. .
(3) These headings are dealt with in Chapters 5 to 8 of this Annual Report.
10 September 2015 Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi, 1615 Luxembourg, LUXEMBOURG
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/13 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS INTRODUCTION EU spending is an important tool to achieve policy objectives 1.1.
EU spending is an important tool to achieve policy goals.
Other important instruments are legislation and the free movement of goods, services, capital and people throughout the Union.
On average, EU spending accounts for 1.9% of total government spending in EU Member States (see Figure 1.1).
According to the Treaty, our role is, inter alia, to: — assess whether the use of the EU budget is in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations; — express our audit opinion on the EU accounts; — report on the economy, efficiency and effectiveness (4) of EU spending; — to provide opinions on legislative proposals with financial implications.
With our assurance work to support the Statement of Assurance, we meet the first and second of these objectives.
This audit work allows us to identify risks that affect economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
It also provides important input into the opinions we provide on proposed financial regulations.
(4) Article 30(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ
OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1), these terms are defined as follows: “The principle of economy requires that the resources used by the institution concerned in its [sic] activities are used at the right time, in sufficient quantity and reasonable quality and at the lowest possible cost.
The principle of economic efficiency concerns the optimal relation between the means used and the results achieved.
The principle of effectiveness concerns the achievement of specific set goals and desired results.”
EN C 373/14 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Figure 1.1 — EU expenditure in 2014 in each Member State as a share of total general government expenditure Sources: European Union expenditure (accounting data from the European Commission, compiled by the Court).
Total general government expenditure of the Member States (Eurostat — Financial statistics of general government — Government revenue, expenditure and main aggregates — Total general government expenditure 2014) (http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/government-finance-statistics/data/database) .
See appendix 1.5 for an explanation of the country codes.
THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.3.
In this chapter of the Annual Report — we provide background information on the Statement of Assurance and an overview of our audit approach (see Appendix 1.1), our audit findings and our audit conclusions; — we analyze the nature of the various risks associated with EU spending; — we describe the actions taken by the Commission in response to observations and recommendations on the reliability of the accounts that we submitted in previous annual reports (see Annex 1.2).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/15 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 AUDIT FINDINGS The accounts were free of material misstatements 1.4.
Our observations relate to the consolidated accounts (5) (the "Accounts") of the European Union for the financial year 2014.
We received the annual accounts together with the declaration of completeness from the accounting officer on 23 July 2015 (6).
The financial statements are accompanied by a financial statement discussion and analysis(7), which is not the subject of our opinion.
However, in accordance with auditing standards, we have verified its consistency with the information contained in the financial statements.
1.5.
From the financial statements (see excerpts in Appendix 1.3) it can be seen that total liabilities as of December 31, 2014 amounted to 220.7 billion euros against total assets of 162.7 billion euros.
The economic outturn for 2014 shows a deficit of 11.3 billion euros (see also paragraphs 2.12-2.13).
Our audit revealed that there were no material misstatements in the financial statements (see also note 1.2).
Our observations on EU budgetary and financial management can be found in Chapter 2.
(5) The consolidated financial statements consist of: (a) the consolidated financial statements, which include the balance sheet (showing the assets and liabilities at the year end), the income statement (showing the income and expenses for the year), the cash flow statement (showing the how accounting changes affect cash and cash equivalents) and changes in net asset values together with the associated explanations; (b) the aggregated statements of budgetary outturn, covering revenue and expenditure for the financial year, and explanatory notes thereto.
(6) We received the provisional accounts together with the declaration of completeness from the accounting officer on 31 March 2015, which was the final date for transmission under the Financial Regulation (see Article 147 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012).
The final accounts were received eight days before the deadline of 31 July set out in Article 148 for submission.
The Commission's revised analysis document on the annual accounts "Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis" was sent to the Court on 1 September 2015.
(7) See the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB) Guideline on Recommended Practice 2 “Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis”.
C 373/16 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION 1.7.
In 2014, the Commission made several changes to the presentation of the financial statements.
These changes aim to take into account the new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and further align with international standards.
Significant improvements have been made in the presentation of certain notes to the financial statements (8).
Items affecting the financial statements 1.8.
The following points affect the annual accounts: 1.8. a) With regard to the presentation of the a) Note 6 to the financial statements (on "Protection of the EU budget"), as described in paragraph 1.13 of our annual report for the financial year 2013 and in point 2 of this year's follow-up overview (Annex 1.2) discussed, progress made.
The explanation now contains more specific information.
For the cohesion area, it shows the extent to which corrections are made before expenditure is recorded, during implementation and at closure.
In addition, the explanatory note now includes, albeit not always in a quantified form, a description of the impact of corrective actions (such as the creation of assigned revenue, expenditure withdrawn and replaced by Member States, etc.) on the EU budget (9). b) Note 2.5.2 on pre-financing (advances to Member States) shows that the Commission has limited information on the use of funds allocated to financial instruments under shared management (EUR 3.8 billion) and other aid schemes (EUR 3.6 billion) are made available.
The Commission may have to make significant adjustments at the closure of the 2007-2013 programming period.
(8) Including a consolidated presentation of current and non-current assets and liabilities and a simplified presentation of segment reporting.
(9) In note 6 to the 2015 accounts, the Commission seeks to take into account the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union of June 2015 annulling decisions on financial corrections amounting to 457 million euros.
In note 2.10 “Provisions” these decisions are already treated as adjustments due to events after the balance sheet date (judgment of the Court of 24 June 2015 in joined cases C-549/12 P and C-54/13 P annulling two Commission decisions for an amount of 94 million euros relating to ERDF programs in Germany and judgment in case C-263/13 P annulling three Commission decisions for an amount of 363 million euros for ERDF programs in Spain).
These decisions arose in the context of expenditure under the 1994-1999 operational programmes.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION C 373/17 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS Regularity of transactions: Our overall audit results, while consistent, indicate a material level of error 1.9.
We examine EU revenue and expenditure to assess whether they comply with relevant laws and regulations.
We present our audit results on revenue in Chapter 4 and on expenditure in Chapters 5 through 9 (see Table 1.1).
1.10.
The revenue was not affected by material error (see paragraph 4.26).
We continue to see a material level of error in spending.
At 4.4%, the estimated level of error in expenditure (after taking into account the relevant corrective actions, see paragraph 1.32 (10)) was similar to the rate for 2013 (4.5% (11)) (see Table 1.1).
Expenditure in MFF heading 5 ('Administration') was free from material error (see paragraph 9.15).
For all other headings related to operational expenditure, expenditure was affected by material errors (see paragraphs 5.32 to 5.33, 6.76 to 6.77, 7.72 to 7.73 and 8.26 to 8.27).
MFF heading Population audited (billion euro) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Heading 1a 13.0 5.6 3.1 8.1 Heading 1b 55.7 5, 7 3.1 8.2 Heading 2 57.5 3.6 2.7 4.6 Heading 4 7.4 2.7 0.9 4.4 Heading 5 8.8 0.5 0.1 0.9 ( 10) Corrections made to claims “at source” which resulted in no payment or reduced payments should not be compared to the level of final payments.
(11) The estimated level of error we identified in the 2013 Annual Report was 4.7%.
The comparable estimated rate presented here is 0.2 percentage points lower because of our new approach to quantifying non-compliance with public procurement rules (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
C 373/18 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 EN MFF heading Population audited (billion euro) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Heading 3, 6 and others 2.1 — — — 144.5 4.4 3.3 5.4 Annual Report Chapter Other (1) Total Revenue Estimated Error Rate 2013 (%) — 4.5 0 143.9 0 0 0 (1) We do not attach specific assessment and no separate chapter for spending under MFF headings 3 ('security and citizenship') and 6 ('compensations') before and for other spending (special instruments outside the MFF 2014-2020 such as the Emergency Aid Reserve, the European Adjustment Fund to globalisation, the European Union Solidarity Fund and the Flexibility Instrument).
However, the audit work in these areas contributes to our overall conclusion on FY2014 expenditure. Source: European Court of Auditors.
THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.11.
Overall, audit results have remained relatively consistent over the past three years at a level well above our materiality benchmark (see Figure 1.2).
REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION 1.11.
The Commission notes that the error rate reported by the Court is an annual estimate that takes account of accounting corrections to project expenditure made before the Court's audit was announced.
The Commission recalls that it is bound by the Financial Regulation, which stipulates in Article 32(2)(e) that its internal control system shall, inter alia, 'take into account appropriate management of risks related to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions of the multiannual nature of the programs and the nature of the payments involved'.
In the 2014 Synthesis Report (COM(2015) 279 final), the Commission estimated the future impact of corrective mechanisms at €2.7 billion, representing 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
The Commission will continue to exercise its monitoring role by making financial corrections and recoveries at a level consistent with the level of irregularities and deficiencies detected throughout the period and also after the closure of the programmes.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/19 Figure 1.2 — The estimated error rate (MLE — most likely error) (2012-2014) (1) (1) The estimated error rate for 2012 and 2013 has been adjusted to to take account of the new approach to quantifying serious breaches of public procurement rules (see paragraph 1.13).
Source: European Court of Auditors.
THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.12.
EU spending consists mainly of two types of spending programmes, each with very different risk patterns (12): — entitlement-based programmes, where payment depends on certain conditions being met; such programs include student and research grants (Chapter 5), direct grants to farmers (Chapter 7), direct budget support(13) (Chapter 8), and salaries and pensions (Chapter 9); — reimbursement schemes where the EU reimburses eligible costs for eligible activities, such schemes include research projects (Chapter 5), schemes for investments in regional and rural development (Chapters 6 and 7), training programs (Chapter 6) and development projects (Chapter 8 ).
(12) Paragraphs 1.20 to 1.22 describe these different risks in more detail.
(13) Budget support payments are a contribution to a country's general budget or to the funds made available by it for a specific policy or objective (see also paragraphs 8.7 and 8.8).
EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS A new audit approach...
For 2014, we have redesigned our approach to quantifying serious violations of procurement rules.
This approach clarifies how we assess the impact of these violations.
In particular, we introduced a proportional approach for calculating errors related to contract changes.
1.14.
To ensure comparability of the results presented in this report, we have adjusted the 2012 and 2013 figures in Table 1.1 and Figures 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 to reflect this new approach.
Annex 1.4 contains the unadjusted historical data on the estimated error rates calculated for the period 2009-2013.
As a result of this adjustment, the estimated total error rate was reduced by 0.2% in 2013 and by 0.3% in 2012.
The adjustment does not affect the conclusions we reached for those years and the level of error remains clearly material.
1.15.
In 2015 we will align our approach to cross-compliance with the revised Common Agricultural Policy framework.
While we will continue to report on the information that the Commission provides on cross-compliance, this element will no longer be part of our audit procedures.
This year we found numerous cross-compliance errors in relation to one in four of the farms visited.
These errors contribute to our estimated total error rate of 0.2 percentage points (2013: 0.2)(14) and to the error rate for the natural resources chapter is 0.6 percentage points (2013: 0.5).
The Commission welcomes the change in the Court's approach from 2015.
For 2014, it reiterates its view that cross-compliance breaches do not affect eligibility conditions for payments (see Commission reply to point 7.7).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/21 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS ... and a new structure for our annual report 1.16.
As described in the general introduction (paragraphs 0.5-0.7), we have redesigned the chapter structure of our annual report.
For comparability purposes, below (Figure 1.3) is an illustration of how last year's audit results would have looked if both the new chapter structure and the new approach to quantifying breaches of public procurement rules had been applied (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14) .
We used these figures in Table 1.1.
Graph 1.3 — Reclassification of audit results for 2013 based on the structure of the 2014 annual report and taking into account the new approach to quantifying breaches of public procurement rules Source: ECA taking into account the changed structure of the annual report and the new approach to quantification serious violations of procurement regulations.
1.17.
As shown in Figure 1.4, the Cohesion area contributes the most to our estimated error rate for 2014, followed by the areas 'Natural Resources', 'Competitiveness' and 'Global Europe'.
This distribution corresponds to our findings for 2013.
EN C 373/22 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Figure 1.4 — Contribution to the estimated total error rate 2014 by MFF heading Source: European Court of Auditors.
THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.18.
Eligibility errors in reimbursement rules account for the majority of the errors detected for 2014 (see also paragraphs 1.20 to 1.22, Figure 1.5 and Figure 1.6). a) For the reimbursement of expenses, the estimated error rate is 5.5% (2013: 5.6%).
Typical errors in this area include: — inclusion of ineligible costs in the financial statements, — ineligible projects, activities or beneficiaries, — serious non-compliance with the procurement rules during the procurement process, — serious non-compliance with the procurement rules during the contract execution (i.e. contract modifications and assignment of additional work).
REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION 1.18. a) The Commission has also identified similar issues in its audits.
During the 2007-2013 programming period, considerable efforts were made by the Commission to identify the root cause of the problems and to take corrective action where necessary.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/23 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS (b) For entitlement-based programs the estimated error rate is 2.7% (2013: 3.0%).
Typical errors in this area include: — over-declaration of area by farmers, — administrative errors in payments made to farmers.
Figure 1.5 — Percentage of estimated total error rate by type of error Source: European Court of Auditors.
1.19.
The figures for 2013 in Figure 1.5 have been prepared on the same basis as for 2014, ie using the approach described in paragraph 1.13.
C 373/24 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 THE COMMISSION'S REPLIES EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS Expenditure type and error rates are closely related 1.20.
We analyzed the relationship between spend type and risk of error.
Characteristic of EU spending is the extent to which the correct calculation of payments to beneficiaries depends on information provided by the beneficiaries themselves.
This applies to the largest category of entitlement-based expenditure schemes: area payments to farmers.
This is of particular importance in the area of reimbursement rules: beneficiaries must provide information in their application to demonstrate that they are participating in an eligible action and have incurred costs that qualify for reimbursement.
All types of management are affected (15).
1.21.
Figure 1.6 is based on all audits carried out on EU spending over the last two years for both the annual general budget reports and the European Development Funds (16).
The cash flows are grouped by their type.
The sizes of the circles in this figure represent their respective proportions of total expenditure, and their position along the 45-degree line indicates the corresponding estimated level of error; their color indicates whether they are claims-based or reimbursement-based.
1.22.
Both elements of professional judgment (assessing the impact of systems and the risks related to the transaction type — see Annex 1.1, paragraph 1) and empirical elements (measuring estimated error rates over a two-year period) are included in this figure.
On the one hand, this is to meet our stakeholders' wishes for more information on the different risk profiles, and on the other hand, it is intended to help the Commission to take action in relation to areas with persistently high error rates.
1.20.
The Integrated Administration and Control System (IACS), which includes the Land Parcel Identification System (LPIS), makes a significant contribution to preventing errors and reducing the error rate (see paragraph 7.32).
LPIS is set up and maintained by the national authorities.
Payments to final beneficiaries can only be made after their claim has been checked against the data available in the LPIS.
Thanks to LPIS, the error rate for area payments is lower than for all other types of payments under shared management.
The Commission considers Box 1.2 and Box 1.3 to confirm this view.
(15) Direct management (budget implemented directly by the European Commission), indirect management (budget implementation tasks delegated to non-EU partner countries, international organisations, etc.), shared management (budget implementation shared between the Commission and Member States).
(16) Valuation using the same approach for both years (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/25 Figure 1.6 — Relationship between transaction type, risk and estimated level of error in EU transactions (2013-2014) (1) The reimbursement for the Global Europe heading includes from multiple donors funded projects which, in practice, share many of the characteristics of entitlement-based schemes and have lower error rates.
C 373/26 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 THE COMMISSION'S REPLIES EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS The results across the different spending areas show different error patterns 1.23. "Competitiveness" (Chapter 5): The estimated level of error is 5.6%, higher than the corresponding results for 2013 (4.0%(17). The majority of expenditure is on a cost reimbursement basis and errors in this area reflect the Essentially reflects the different categories of ineligible costs (mainly staff costs, other direct costs and indirect costs).
1.24. "Cohesion" (Chapter 6): The estimated error rate is 5.7%, higher than the corresponding results for 2013 (5.3% (17)).
Almost all expenditure in this area takes the form of reimbursement.
The main causes of error include serious breaches of procurement rules (around half the estimated error rate), followed by ineligible costs in expenditure declarations (more than a quarter of the estimated error rate).
Breaches of state aid rules and ineligible projects make up the remaining part of the errors.
1.25. “Natural Resources” (Chapter 7): The estimated error rate is 3.6%, lower than the corresponding results for 2013 (4.4% (17).
The European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) accounts for more than three quarters of expenditure in this area and this fund is less prone to error than the rural development sub-sector, for which we have long seen high levels of error, particularly those on the Expenditures incurred based on reimbursement.
Overall, excessive area or number of animals by farmers accounted for around a third of the estimated error rate.
Errors related to ineligible beneficiaries, activities or expenditure accounted for the second highest proportion (around a quarter of the estimated error rate).
Cross-compliance violations (one-sixth) and administrative errors (one-sixth) account for the most important remaining proportions.
1.23.
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 5 of the annual report (paragraphs 5.6-5.17).
1.24.
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 6 of the annual report (paragraphs 6.23 to 6.45 and paragraph 6.76).
1.25.
The lower error rate for the EAGF reflects the effectiveness of IACS and in particular LPIS when properly implemented in terms of avoiding errors from the first moment of the process.
Overall, the Commission considers IACS to be a sound system for managing CAP expenditure.
See also the replies in paragraphs 1.15 and 1.20, paragraphs 7.15 to 7.19 and paragraphs 7.25 to 7.29.
(17) This comparative figure takes into account both the reallocation of budget lines — to ensure that chapters reflect MFF headings — and the new approach to non-compliance with public procurement rules.
See also Figure 1.3).
EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.26. Global Europe (Chapter 8): The estimated error rate is 2.7%, higher than the corresponding results for 2013 (2.1%(18)(19).
Ineligible costs reimbursed by the Commission account for more than half of the total error rate.
Payments for works and services not rendered or deliveries not made account for a quarter of the total error rate.
The rest is due to a lack of supporting documents (around a tenth of the estimated error rate), incorrect calculation of expenditure and non-compliance with public procurement rules.
1.27. 'Administration' (Chapter 9): The estimated level of error is 0.5%, down from the corresponding results for 2013 (1.1%(18)).
Most of the expenditure in this area concerns salaries, pensions and allowances paid by the EU institutions and bodies.
A small number of errors in the allowances accounted for the largest proportion of the error rate in this area, which is not material overall.
1.28.
As explained in the general introduction, we do not create a separate chapter for expenditure that does not fall under MFF headings 1, 2, 4 and 5.
The remaining expenditure totaling EUR 2.1 billion (1.5% of the expenditure covered by our audit) is therefore reported in this chapter (20).
Of the total of EUR 2.1 billion, an amount of EUR 0.5 billion relates to expenditure made through and by ten agencies, which are the subject of our special annual reports(21).
The main errors identified in this area were the reimbursement of ineligible costs (see Box 1.1).
(18) This comparative figure takes into account both the reallocation of budget lines — to ensure that chapters reflect MFF headings — and the new approach to non-compliance with public procurement rules.
(19) Most of the expenditure of the 2013 Annual Report on External Relations, Assistance and Enlargement has remained in the corresponding chapter for the MFF Global Europe heading; a small part of this expenditure is now dealt with in the chapter "Economic, social and territorial cohesion". See also Figure 1.3.
(20) See footnote 1 of Table 1.1.
(21) European Judicial Cooperation Unit, European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union, European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, European Asylum Support Office, European Center for Disease Prevention and Control, European Food Safety Authority, European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction, European Police College, European Police Office, European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
C 373/28 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 THE COMMISSION'S REPLIES EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS Box 1.1 — Example of errors in the reimbursement of costs for a project under MFF Heading 3 "Security and Citizenship" The subject of our sample was a payment from the Commission to a beneficiary who acted as coordinator of a cooperation project under the program "Fundamental Rights and Citizenship".
The beneficiary public body seconded two permanent employees (officials) to the project on a part-time basis; she invoiced part of her salaries in the project cost statement.
Seconded staff only justifiably incur additional costs if additional staff have to be recruited to replace officials in their usual work and this actually results in costs.
As the beneficiary organization has not made arrangements to replace the officials, these costs are not eligible.
In total, the ineligible costs reported by the beneficiary amounted to 58 000 euros out of the total costs invoiced of 237 000 euros.
We identified ineligible costs, which were reimbursed by the Commission, in eight of the 25 projects sampled for MFF Heading 3.
Box 1.1 — Example of errors in the reimbursement of costs for a project under MFF Heading 3 "Security and Citizenship" The Commission was aware of the public bodies' difficulties in complying with the eligibility rules relating to staff costs for public bodies (which include other staff commission to replace civil servants in their usual work) apply, known.
For this reason, as of 2011, the Commission modified the eligibility rules applicable to staff of public bodies, making use of the flexibility provided by the implementing rules of the Financial Regulation in this regard.
Therefore, the ineligible costs identified by the Court in the grant mentioned (staff costs for staff in public bodies who do not allocate a replacement) would now be considered eligible.
1.29.
The estimated level of error for total shared management expenditure is 4.6% (2013: 4.9%(22)) and for all other operational expenditure(23) it is 4.6% (2013: 3.7%(22).
The estimated level of error in administrative expenditure is 0.5% (2013: 1.0% (22) .
(22) This comparative figure takes into account the new approach to non-compliance with public procurement rules.
See also paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14.
(23) This expenditure is mainly covered by Chapters 7 and 8, but some of the expenditure covered by Chapters 5 and 6 is also covered.
The projected error rate for shared management expenditure is based on the examination of 687 transactions (out of a population of €113 billion).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/29 REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS There are many forms of corrective action with different impacts 1.30.
Our examination of “Errors and Corrections” aims to shed light on the complex mechanisms involved in taking and recording corrective action and the many ways in which these mechanisms can affect our audit work.
In some spending areas, new tools will be available to the Commission when spending for the new programming period.
Corrective Actions 1.31.
We aim to accommodate corrective actions taken by Member States and the Commission ahead of the payment or our investigation.
We also take note of corrections that occur after our audit announcement. However, whenever the audit itself triggers the corrective action, we cannot reduce the estimated error rate (24).
We verify the application of these corrections (which include beneficiary recoveries and project-level corrections) and adjust the error rate calculation where necessary.
However, the impact of corrective action varies significantly by spending area and by corrective action.
1.32.
In 24 of the transactions sampled in 2014, the Commission and Member State authorities had applied corrective actions that had a direct impact on the transaction concerned and were relevant to our calculations.
These corrective actions reduced our estimated error rate by 1.1 percentage points (2013: 1.6 percentage points); this corresponds to around 1.6 billion euros.
Changes in the number of transactions affected and the impact on our estimated error rate do not indicate that the corrective actions are more or less effective: since these actions apply to a relatively small proportion of our sample, fluctuations from year to year are to be expected.
1.30
The Commission considers that the Court's annual representative error rate should be seen in the context of the Commission's corrective capacity as reported in the various annual activity reports and the synthesis report.
The Financial Regulation requires adequate consideration of the risks related to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multiannual nature of the control systems and the nature of the payments.
1.31.
Common reply to paragraphs 1.31 and 1.32: In the 2014 Synthesis Report (COM(2015) 279 final), the Commission estimated the future impact of corrective mechanisms at €2.7 billion, representing 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
For a breakdown of the figures by policy area, see Table 1 in the synthesis report.
The Commission underlines that all types of financial corrections and recoveries exclude irregular expenditure from reimbursement from the EU budget (see note 6 to the financial statements).
(24) See paragraphs 1.19 to 1.37 of the 2012 annual report.
The Commission uses the terms "financial corrections" and "recoveries" to cover a wide range of corrective actions that apply both before and after the Commission has made (or reimbursed) expenditure.
1.34.
A total of €3285 million for corrective actions in 2014 is disclosed in note 6.2.2 to the financial statements.
Figure 1.7 shows how we classify the corrections made at different stages of the spending cycle.
A quarter of all corrective actions in 2014 consist of corrections and recoveries made 'at source', ie before the Commission made the related payment (25).
Another quarter takes the form of withdrawals and replacements of expenditure on cohesion projects (either during implementation or at the closure of the operational programmes). 1.33.
The Commission considers that the terms "financial corrections" and "recoveries" are used in accordance with the legal framework set out in the Financial Regulation and the relevant sectoral legislation.
More detailed information on the various preventive and corrective mechanisms provided for in the applicable legislation is provided in note 6 to the EU financial statements and in the Communication on the protection of the EU budget.
(25) For the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, the 'at source' corrections reported as made in 2014 amount to 430 million euro; 75% of these had already taken place in previous years.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/31 Figure 1.7 — Classification of corrective actions taken in 2014 (*) Commission decisions (mostly agricultural conformity decisions), decommitment corrections at closure and recoveries from beneficiaries. (**) Reduction of cost reimbursements and inclusion of new projects/costs during program implementation and at closure. (***) Corrections before payment under shared management, ineligible amounts and credits under direct and indirect management (recorded as "recoveries" in note 6).
Source: Note 6 to the 2014 EU consolidated accounts and underlying data.
For the cohesion area, the classification of the amounts under pre-payment exclusions and withdrawals is based on an analysis of the corrections made during the period of significance.
THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.35.
The corrective actions discussed in this section of the Annual Report also cover the work of the Member State authorities and the recoveries made by the National Agencies and the Commission.
C 373/32 Official Journal of the European Union REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION 10.11.2015 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS The impact of corrective action is to a large extent tangible at the point at which the Commission accepts the expenditure 1.36.
All relevant sectoral regulations in the field of shared management contain rules on the primary controls to be carried out by national authorities or reductions in the amounts declared by the final beneficiaries before the expenditure is certified.
Sometimes national authorities also agree to reduce or eliminate certain costs that are consistently reported because of errors with long-term effects (such as ongoing payments under a contract where there is an error in the public procurement rules).
Such adjustments can have a measurable impact on the amount of reimbursement claimed for individual projects or the aid paid to individual farmers. The correction then helps to reduce our estimated error rate.
1.37.
In the area of direct and indirect management, the 'recoveries' recorded by the Commission include the deduction of ineligible amounts from cost claims before payment is authorized.
The eligibility of the amounts is determined on the basis of desk reviews of the documents available or on the basis of the results of checks carried out (see also Figure 1.7).
This also allows us to lower our estimated error rate.
Conformity decisions ("financial corrections" in the agricultural sector) are often made in a lump sum.
In general, they relate to systemic weaknesses rather than errors at final beneficiary level.
In the rarest of cases, they result in recoveries from the affected farmers.
Corrective actions of this type are an incentive for Member States to improve their management and control systems.
They contribute to the legality and regularity of transactions at final beneficiary level if they result in constant improvements in the cost claims accepted by paying agencies (see Boxes 1.2 and 1.3).
The Commission services also carry out recoveries 'at source' by deducting ineligible expenses (identified in previous or current cost statements) from payments made.
1.38.
Financial corrections made by the Commission on agricultural spending aim to protect the EU budget and are imposed on Member States.
They do not directly lead to recoveries from farmers as the Commission does not pay the final beneficiaries directly but reimburses payments made by Member States to farmers.
However, if these irregular payments are identifiable as a result of the conformity clearance procedure, the Commission would expect Member States to follow them up through recovery actions against the beneficiaries.
See answer to Box 1.3.
Paying agencies implement compliance decisions by reducing future applications for reimbursement from the Commission for payments to farmers.
The Commission accounts for the full amount paid to farmers as expenditure, ie the correction does not result in a reduction in the amount of payments recorded.
Instead, the difference between payments to farmers and reimbursements to paying agencies is booked as assigned revenue available to finance agricultural expenditure (26).
More than two thirds of the 'financial corrections' recorded in the Cohesion area in 2014 consist of replacements with new expenditure,...
1.40
In the cohesion area, more than two thirds of the total amount covered are "financial corrections" where Member State authorities reverse expenditure declared and replace it with new expenditure.
In the case of some "withdrawals", no specific projects can be identified as having been withdrawn.
Instead, Member States report additional projects and thus de facto receive a lower co-financing rate.
1.40 The Commission considers that all financial corrections, including those where Member States are allowed to bring in new projects and new expenditure to reuse the corrected amounts, protect the EU budget from unlawful spending and act as an incentive for Member States to make recoveries from beneficiaries (thus helping to improve management and control systems).
Nevertheless, the deterrent effect of net financial corrections, where Member States cannot reuse the corrected and recovered amounts and thus lose the funds, is certainly higher.
(26) For example, if an agricultural paying agency is subject to a financial correction of 5% and makes payments of EUR 100 million to farmers, the Commission will reimburse it EUR 95 million. For its part, however, the Commission will record expenditure of EUR 100 million, offset by assigned revenue of EUR 5 million.
C 373/34 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 THE COMMISSION'S REPLIES EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS ...while net corrections are made less frequently 1.41.
If replacement is not possible, the corrections result in a loss of EU funds for the Member State concerned(27). This case, albeit relatively rare, can arise when Member States are unable to provide sufficient eligible expenditure and replacement is no longer possible (28) or permitted (29).
The Commission expects that as a result of changes in legislation, net corrections will be applied more widely in the future. 1.41.
Following the example of the agricultural sector, the legislator has decided to apply a similar mechanism of net financial corrections to cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period.
This gives the Member States an additional incentive to prevent or detect and remedy serious deficiencies in the management and control systems before submitting the annual accounts to the Commission.
Otherwise, and if serious deficiencies are still identified by the Commission or the Court after the submission of the annual accounts, the Commission has to apply net financial corrections under the conditions laid down in the relevant regulations, which means that the funds are lost for the Member State.
Furthermore, the Commission considers that under shared management all financial corrections and recoveries, regardless of the method of implementation, have a negative impact on national budgets.
In order to avoid a loss of EU funding, the Member State must replace ineligible expenditure with additional eligible operations.
This means that the Member State has to bear, through its national budget, the financial consequences of losing EU co-financing of expenditure deemed ineligible, unless it recovers the amounts from the individual beneficiaries.
(27) Either as a reduction in payments or as a return to the EU budget, leading to assigned revenue (see Figure 2.2).
(28) After completion of the programs.
(29) In the event of a disagreement between Member States and the Commission (see paragraph 1.25(b) of the 2012 annual report).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION C 373/35 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS In 2014, the Commission and Member States applied all these forms of corrective action 1.42.
Boxes 1.2-1.4 illustrate different types and effects of corrective action. Box 1.2 — Example of improvement of management and control systems — Greece: cleaning up the Land Identification System The Commission has taken action to enforce the improvement of the Land Parcel Identification System (LPIS), which is used as the basis for payments to farms — such as in the framework of the Single Payment Scheme (the largest single EU spending scheme).
This process went through different stages and resulted in the 'eligible' permanent grassland recorded in the Greek LPIS decreasing from 3.6 million hectares in 2012 to 1.5 million hectares in October 2014.
Irregular applications for 'permanent grassland', which is ineligible for EU aid, has been a key factor in our estimated error rate for 'natural resources' for several years.
We considered the impact of corrections related to individual payments made to final beneficiaries, which were the subject of our sample of EAGF and European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) transactions.
Another impact is that the Paying Agency rejected many ineligible claims, resulting in the relevant expenditure being excluded from our sample.
Box 1.2 — Example of improving management and control systems — Greece: cleaning up the LPIS Other examples of the positive impact of action plans are given by the Court in Chapter 7.
Action plans are implemented whenever deemed necessary and the Commission closely monitors their implementation and reports on the remedial actions taken in the annual activity report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
The land identification system prevents beneficiaries from making claims for farmland that does not exist or does not meet the eligibility conditions, or for farmland for which claims have already been made by another beneficiary.
When implemented properly, it is a very effective tool for reducing the error rate.
It covers 75% of CAP expenditure.
As shown in the 2014 Annual Activity Report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, area-based payments have lower error rates than other measures.
C 373/36 Official Journal of the European Union REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION 10.11.2015 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS Box 1.3 — Example of corrections resulting from conformity clearance procedures (30) — Conformity Decision 47 and its consequences for French farmers In 2014, France accepted a correction of 1.1 billion euros (984 million euros for the EAGF and 94 million euros for the EAFRD)(31).
The national authorities explained that this would not affect farmers and that the amount would be paid from the national budget.
In previous annual reports, we pointed out that such an approach would not incentivize beneficiaries to correct errors (32).
The main reasons for the correction were deficiencies in the LPIS/GIS (€695 million) and exceeding the payment entitlement ceiling, leading to overpayments to farmers (€141 million).
Another reason, albeit to a lesser extent, was breaches of the cross-compliance obligation for timely notification of animal movements (123 million euros).
All these reasons are related to payments made between 2009 and 2013.
No adjustment was made for 2014 and breaches of the entitlement ceiling and ineligible land recorded in the LPIS France contributed 0.3 percentage points to our estimated level of error for 'Natural Resources' for that year.
Box 1.3 — Example of corrections resulting from conformity clearance procedures — Conformity Decision 47 and its consequences for French farmers Under shared management, Member States are responsible for ensuring that the control systems work properly.
The financial correction of 1.1 billion euros will be paid back to the EU budget in three annual installments (2015, 2016 and 2017).
The Commission points out that, due to the nature of the conformity clearance procedure that applies ex-post, after the annual accounts have been closed and after an adversarial phase in which the Member State concerned can put forward its own reasoning and calculation, it is very rare that a financial correction is already decided in the year following the expenditure concerned.
An ongoing conformity clearance procedure will protect the EU budget for 2014.
Box 1.4 — Example of corrections leading to additional expenditure: ESF — Romania We reported corrective actions in Romania in our 2012 and 2013 annual reports.
In 2013, we were able to reduce our estimated level of error in relation to a number of Romanian European Social Fund (ESF) projects, as the national authorities had identified the impact of the corrections at project level.
This was also the case in 2014.
Some of the projects we examined still have errors due to issues not covered by the fixes.
In its Annual Activity Report for 2014, the Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion (DG EMPL) indicates that it will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreed action plan.
The financial corrections made do not necessarily mean that Romania will receive less EU funding, as Member States can use the possibility to declare a larger amount of expenditure (33).
(30) A multi-annual procedure allowing for the recovery of amounts paid to Member States where those payments have not met EU rules or where there are deficiencies in the Member State's management and control systems.
See also paragraph 7.59.
(31) France later appealed the decision imposing the financial correction to the Court of Justice of the European Union.
(32) See paragraphs 1.26 and 1.32 of the 2012 annual report.
(33) This would in practice amount to a reduction in the EU co-financing rate.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/37 REPLIES OF THE COMMISSION EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS In its reporting on corrective actions, the Commission does not always quantify their different impacts,...
1.43.
Note 6 to the financial statements largely represents a voluntary disclosure of information not required by accounting regulations.
A significant part of this information does not come from accounting systems.
A description of the different impacts of the various corrective adjustments to the EU budget is provided in the explanatory note, although not always in a quantified form. ... and further improvements would allow better analysis 1.44.
The Commission's ability to improve the quality of spending is related not only to the amounts involved, but also to their impact.
A rigorous assessment of the impact of corrective action requires better information about the nature of the error being corrected and how corrections are being made (34).
When the relevant Directorates-General of the Commission assess the impact of their corrective actions, they make the necessary adjustments to the figures in note 6 (see paragraph 1.55).
The Commission's synthesis report confirms material errors in transactions 1.45.
Each Directorate-General of the Commission draws up an annual activity report.
This report includes — a report on the achievement of the main policy objectives (discussed in Chapter 3), — a management report from the Director-General to the College of Commissioners, and — a declaration by the Director-General to ensure that the the financial information contained in the report is fairly presented and the transactions under his/her responsibility are legal and regular.
1.43.
The legislator has given the Commission the tool of financial corrections to ensure that the EU budget does not finance unlawful expenditure.
These financial corrections mainly relate to system deficiencies leading to a risk of error.
It is up to the Member States, not the Commission, to identify and recover from the beneficiaries any amounts that are not in order.
If this does not happen, the EU funds will be replaced by national funds as the national budgets have to bear the burden of the financial corrections.
1.44.
Several services have duly adjusted their EU budget protection figures presented in note 6 to provide an estimate of future corrections in view of their specific circumstances.
(34) See paragraphs 1.13 to 1.15 of the 2013 annual report.
C 373/38 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.46. The Synthesis Report provides a summary of this information and a declaration that by adopting the Synthesis Report, the Commission assumes overall political responsibility for the management of the EU budget.
1.47.
This section of the chapter presents the results of our analysis of the DGs' annual activity reports and the Commission's synthesis report(35).
The focus is on the consistency and adequacy of the Commission's estimates of: — the level of error at the time the Commission reimburses or pays its own expenditure (the Commission calls this the “amount at risk”), — the extent to which errors are caused by later corrections (the Commission refers to this as its 'corrective capacity' or 'estimated future corrections' (36)).
The Directors-General report annually on regularity 1.48.
When the Directors-General are unable to provide assurance on a significant part of the expenditure, they issue a reservation (see Box 1.5).
Directors-General should do so when — an event has occurred which has a serious impact on the reputation of the Commission, or — the impact of the estimated error rates less financial corrections and recoveries already made is still material.
(35) The Synthesis Report and the Annual Activity Reports of the Commission are available on the Commission's website: Synthesis Report: http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/planning-and-preparing/synthesis-report/index_en.htm, Annual Activity -ability reports: http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/synthesis/aar/index_de. hmmm
(36) See Synthesis Report, footnotes 10 and 13, pp. 14 and 15.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/39 EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS Box 1.5 — Reservations in the 2014 annual activity reports Directors-General made a total of 20 quantified reservations in 2014 compared to 17 in 2013.
The increase in the total number of reservations is due to: — three new reservations by the Directorates-General of the Directorates-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (DG CONNECT) (37) and Neighborhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations (DG NEAR)(38)(39) and the Service for Foreign Policy Instruments ( FPI) (40); — the splitting of a recurring reservation into two reservations (41), — the lifting of one reservation (42).
In 2014, the reserved amount of expenditure decreased from 2.4 billion euros in 2013 to 2.3 billion euros in 2014 (43).
1.49.
The European Parliament's 2013 discharge resolution(44) calls on the Commission to "further clarify the calculation of the amount at risk by explaining the estimated impact of corrective mechanisms on this figure".
(37) Reservation on the Information and Communication Technologies Policy Support Program (ICT Support Programme) of the countries participating in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Program (CIP), as the residual error rate is above 2% (2.94%).
(38) Reservation on indirect management by beneficiary countries as the residual error rate is above 2% (2.67%).
(39) The issues identified in the 2013 annual report gave rise to a new reputational reservation by DG NEAR (former Directorate-General for Enlargement (DG ELARG), see paragraph 7.16 of the 2013 annual report).
(40) Reservation on Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) expenditure as the residual error rate is above 2% (2.13%).
(41) Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy (DG REGIO) split its recurring reservation on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)/Cohesion Fund (CF)/Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) into two reservations, one on ERDF/CF and another to the IPA.
(42) The Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE) has lifted its reservation on the animal disease eradication and surveillance programs in the policy area Food and Feed.
(43) See Synthesis Report, Annex 2.
(44) Report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2013, Section III — Commission and executive agencies 2014/2075 (DEC) (A8-0101/2015).
EN THE COURT'S OBSERVATIONS 1.50.
In response to the request of the discharge authority, in 2014 the Commission further developed its internal guidance (45) on the presentation of information in annual activity reports.
The directors-general are now supposed to present an “average detected error rate” (46).
Applying this error rate to the total payments for the year leads to the calculation of the 'amount at risk'(47).
This amount is shown in the Synthesis Report together with the estimate of the future corrective capacity of the ex-post controls carried out by the Commission. The Commission accepts that there is a material error in the expenditure...
1.51.
In the 2014 Synthesis Report, the Commission shows the “amount at risk” as ranging from 3.7 to 5 billion euros.
This represents between 2.6% and 3.5% of the 2014 payments covered by the synthesis report(48).
These figures show that the total expenditure is affected by a material amount of error. ... but refers to the estimated impact of future corrections 1.52.
The 2014 Synthesis Report provides an expected total amount of estimated future corrections (corrective capacity).
On the basis of the corrections(49) recorded during the last six years, the Commission estimates that over the coming years it 'will be able to identify and correct errors totaling around EUR 2 700 million' (50).
(45) Standing Instructions for the 2014 Annual Activity Reports (SEC(2014) 553).
(46) This is the detected or estimated error rate at the time payments were made (not the residual error rate), ie without adjustment for errors corrected ex post.
